---

title: Computer file control through file tagging
abstract: In embodiments of the present invention improved capabilities are described for providing data protection through the detection of tags associated with data or a file. In embodiments the present invention may provide for a step A, where data may be scanned that is intended to be communicated from the client computing facility. In response to step A, at step B, restricted data may be identified by identifying an absence of a tag associated with the data. And finally, in response to step B, at step C, an interruption to the intended communication may be caused.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08286255&OS=08286255&RS=08286255
owner: Sophos PLC
number: 08286255
owner_city: Abingdon
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080807
---
The present invention is related to control of computer files and more specifically relating to control of computer files through file tagging.

There are many different approaches to controlling computer files including digital rights management DRM file encryption device and hard disk encryption and use of regular expressions for searching content. Simple regular expressions are often inaccurate when discriminating between confidential and non confidential data and other types of content scanning are unreliable resulting in false positives and false negatives. In addition these methods tend to interfere with normal use intra company communication. There exists a need for a method that allows reliable control of computer files that does not interfere with the normal intra company communications.

In embodiments the present invention may provide for a step A where data may be scanned that is intended to be communicated from the client computing facility. In response to the scanning step A a step B may take place where restricted data may be identified by identifying an absence of a tag associated with the data. And finally in response to step B a step C may take place where an interruption to the intended communication may be caused. In embodiments the scanning of step A may involve scanning data intended for an outside recipient data intended for a non employee recipient data intended for a recipient outside of the corporate network outgoing email outgoing IMs outgoing VoIP data intended for a recipient represented on a block list of recipients data intended to be transferred to a removable memory data intended to be transferred to a memory stick data intended to be transferred to an FTP site and the like. In embodiments the intended communication of step A may be associated with an intended transfer of the data from the client computing facility and so step C may be associated with the interruption of the intended transfer.

In embodiments if the tag is identified as associated with the data to be communicated the tag may be analyzed to determine the communication protocol. The association of the tag with the data may be that the tag is attached to the data the tag is associated with an attachment of metadata to the data the association of the tag with the data modifies the filename associated with the data and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may provide a user interface that may facilitate the tagging of data with a confidentiality tag. Further the tagging of data such as on the client computing facility may be based on an event. The event may be associated with the saving of a file the automatic saving of a file the saving of a file by the user the creation of the file the scanning of the file the scheduled scanning of the file and the like. In addition the scanning process or scheduled scanning process may apply tags based on a parameter such as folder location content filename date user name user group and the like.

These and other systems methods objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings. All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments other embodiments would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and are encompassed herein.

An aspect of the present invention relates to corporate policy management and their implementation through a unified threat management facility . As will be explained in more detail below a threat management facility is used to protect computer assets from many threats both computer generated threats and user generated threats. The threat management facility is multi dimensional in that it is designed to protect corporate assets from a variety of threats and it is adapted to learn about threats in one dimension e.g. worm detection and apply the knowledge in another dimension e.g. spam detection . Corporate policy management is one of the dimensions for which the threat management facility can control. The corporation may institute a policy that prevents certain people e.g. employees groups of employees types of employees guest of the corporation etc. from accessing certain types of computer programs. For example the corporation may elect to prevent its accounting department from using a particular version of an instant messaging service or all such services. In this example the policy management facility may be used to update the policies of all corporate computing assets with a proper policy control facility or it may update a select few. By using the threat management facility to facilitate the setting updating and control of such policies the corporation only needs to be concerned with keeping the threat management facility up to date on such policies. The threat management facility can take care of updating all of the other corporate computing assets.

It should be understood that the threat management facility may provide multiple services and policy management may be offered as one of the services. We will now turn to a description of the threat management system .

Over recent years malware has become a major problem across the internet . From both technical and user perspectives the categorization of a specific threat type such as whether it is a virus worm spam phishing exploration spyware adware or the like is becoming reduced in significance. The threat no matter how it s categorized may need to be stopped at all points of the enterprise facility including laptop desktop server facility gateway and the like. Similarly there may be less and less benefit to the user in having different solutions for known and unknown threats. As such a consolidated threat management facility may need to be applied to the same set of technologies and capabilities for all threats. The threat management facility may provide a single agent on the desktop and a single scan of any suspect file. This approach may eliminate the inevitable overlaps and gaps in protection caused by treating viruses and spyware as separate problems while simultaneously simplifying administration and minimizing desktop load. As the number and range of types of threats has increased so may have the level of connectivity available to all IT users. This may have lead to a rapid increase in the speed at which threats may move. Today an unprotected PC connected to the internet may be infected quickly say within 10 minutes which may require acceleration for the delivery of threat protection. Where once monthly updates may have been sufficient the threat management facility may automatically and seamlessly update its product set against spam and virus threats quickly for instance every five minutes every minute continuously or the like. Analysis and testing may be increasingly automated and also may be performed more frequently for instance it may be completed in 15 minutes and may do so without compromising quality. The threat management facility may also extend techniques that may have been developed for virus and malware protection and provide them to enterprise facility network administrators to better control their environments. In addition to stopping malicious code the threat management facility may provide policy management that may be able to control legitimate applications such as VoIP instant messaging peer to peer file sharing and the like that may undermine productivity and network performance within the enterprise facility .

The threat management facility may provide an enterprise facility protection from computer based malware including viruses spyware adware Trojans intrusion spam policy abuse uncontrolled access and the like where the enterprise facility may be any entity with a networked computer based infrastructure. In an embodiment may depict a block diagram of the threat management facility providing protection to an enterprise against a plurality of threats. The enterprise facility may be corporate commercial educational governmental or the like and the enterprise facility s computer network may be distributed amongst a plurality of facilities and in a plurality of geographical locations. The threat management facility may include a plurality of functions such as security management facility policy management facility update facility definitions facility network access rules facility remedial action facility detection techniques facility testing facility threat research facility and the like. In embodiments the threat protection provided by the threat management facility may extend beyond the network boundaries of the enterprise facility to include enterprise facility client facility s that have moved into network connectivity not directly associated or controlled by the enterprise facility . Threats to enterprise facility client facilities may come from a plurality of sources such as from network threats physical proximity threats secondary location threats and the like. In embodiments the threat management facility may provide an enterprise facility protection from a plurality of threats to multiplatform computer resources in a plurality of locations and network configurations with an integrated system approach.

In embodiments the threat management facility may be provided as a stand alone solution. In other embodiments the threat management facility may be integrated into a third party product. An application programming interface e.g. a source code interface may be provided such that the threat management facility may be integrated. For instance the threat management facility may be stand alone in that it provides direct threat protection to an enterprise or computer resource where protection is subscribed to directly with the threat management facility . Alternatively the threat management facility may offer protection indirectly through a third party product where an enterprise may subscribe to services through the third party product and threat protection to the enterprise may be provided by the threat management facility through the third party product.

The security management facility may include a plurality of elements that provide protection from malware to enterprise facility computer resources including endpoint security and control email security and control web security and control control of unauthorized users control of guest and non compliant computers and the like. The security management facility may be a software application that may provide malicious code and malicious application protection to a client facility computing resource. The security management facility may have the ability to scan the client facility files for malicious code remove or quarantine certain applications and files prevent certain actions perform remedial actions and perform other security measures. In embodiments scanning the client facility may include scanning some or all of the files stored to the client facility on a periodic basis may scan applications once the application has been requested to execute may scan files as the files are transmitted to or from the client facility or the like. The scanning of the applications and files may be to detect known malicious code or known unwanted applications. In an embodiment new malicious code and unwanted applications may be continually developed and distributed and updates to the known code database may be provided on a periodic basis on a demand basis on an alert basis or the like.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for email security and control where security management may help to eliminate spam viruses spyware and phishing control of email content and the like. The security management facilities email security and control may protect against inbound and outbound threats protect email infrastructure prevent data leakage provide spam filtering and the like. In an embodiment security management facility may provide for web security and control where security management may help to detect or block viruses spyware malware unwanted applications help control web browsing and the like which may provide comprehensive web access control enabling safe productive web browsing. Web security and control may provide internet use policies reporting on suspect devices security and content filtering active monitoring of network traffic URI filtering and the like. In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for network access control which may provide control over network connections. Network control may stop unauthorized guest or non compliant systems from accessing networks and may control network traffic that may not be bypassed from the client level. In addition network access control may control access to virtual private networks VPN where VPNs may be a communications network tunneled through another network establishing a logical connection acting as a virtual network. In embodiments a VPN may be treated in the same manner as a physical network.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for host intrusion prevention through behavioral based protection which may guard against unknown threats by analyzing behavior before software code executes. Behavioral based protection may monitor code when it runs and intervene if the code is deemed to be suspicious or malicious. Advantages of behavioral based protection over runtime protection may include code being prevented from running whereas runtime protection may only interrupt code that has already partly executed behavioral protection may identify malicious code at the gateway or on the file servers and deletes it before reaching end point computers and the like.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for reputation filtering which may target or identify sources of known malware. For instance reputation filtering may include lists of URIs of known sources of malware or known suspicious IP addresses or domains say for spam that when detected may invoke an action by the threat management facility such as dropping them immediately. By dropping the source before any interaction can initiate potential threat sources may be thwarted before any exchange of data can be made.

In embodiments information may be sent from the enterprise back to a third party a vendor or the like which may lead to improved performance of the threat management facility . For example the types times and number of virus interactions that a client experiences may provide useful information for the preventions of future virus threats. This type of feedback may be useful for any aspect of threat detection. Feedback of information may also be associated with behaviors of individuals within the enterprise such as being associated with most common violations of policy network access unauthorized application loading unauthorized external device use and the like. In embodiments this type of information feedback may enable the evaluation or profiling of client actions that are violations of policy that may provide a predictive model for the improvement of enterprise policies.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for the overall security of the enterprise facility network or set of enterprise facility networks may provide updates of malicious code information to the enterprise facility network and associated client facilities . The updates may be a planned update an update in reaction to a threat notice an update in reaction to a request for an update an update based on a search of known malicious code information or the like. The administration facility may provide control over the security management facility when updates are performed. The updates may be automatically transmitted without an administration facility s direct control manually transmitted by the administration facility or the like. The security management facility may include the management of receiving malicious code descriptions from a provider distribution of malicious code descriptions to enterprise facility networks distribution of malicious code descriptions to client facilities or the like. In an embodiment the management of malicious code information may be provided to the enterprise facility s network where the enterprise facility s network may provide the malicious code information through the enterprise facility s network distribution system.

The threat management facility may provide policy management facility that may be able to block non malicious applications such as VoIP instant messaging peer to peer file sharing and the like that may undermine productivity and network performance within the enterprise facility . The policy management facility may be a set of rules or policies that may indicate enterprise facility access permissions for the client facility such as access permissions associated with the network applications external computer devices and the like. The policy management facility may include a database a text file a combination of databases and text files or the like. In an embodiment a policy database may be a block list a black list an allowed list a white list or the like that may provide a list of enterprise facility external network locations applications that may or may not be accessed by the client facility . The policy management facility may include rules that may be interpreted with respect to an enterprise facility network access request to determine if the request should be allowed. The rules may provide a generic rule for the type of access that may be granted the rules may be related to the policies of an enterprise facility for access rights for the enterprise facility s client facility . For example there may be a rule that does not permit access to sporting websites. When a website is requested by the client facility a security facility may access the rules within a policy facility to determine if the requested access is related to a sporting website. In an embodiment the security facility may analyze the requested website to determine if the website matches with any of the policy facility rules.

The policy management facility may be similar to the security management facility but with the distribution of enterprise facility wide access rules and policies that may maintain control of the access of client facility to enterprise facility network resources. The policies may be defined for application type subset of application capabilities organization hierarchy computer facility type user type network location time of day connection type or the like. Policies may be maintained by the administration facility through the threat management facility in association with a third party or the like. For example a policy may restrict IM activity to only support personnel for communicating with customers. This may allow communication for departments requiring access but may maintain the network bandwidth for other activities by restricting the use of IM to only the personnel that need access to IM in support of the enterprise facility . In an embodiment the policy management facility may be a standalone application may be part of the policy management facility network server facility may be part of the enterprise facility network may be part of the client facility or the like.

In embodiments the threat management facility may provide configuration management which may be similar to policy management but may specifically examine the configuration set of applications operating systems hardware and the like and managing changes to their configurations. Assessment of a configuration may be made against a standard configuration policy detection of configuration changes remediation of improper configuration application of new configurations and the like. An enterprise may keep a set of standard configuration rules and policies which may represent the desired state of the device. For example a client firewall may be running and installed but in the disabled state where remediation may be to enable the firewall. In another example the enterprise may set a rule that disallows the use of USB disks and sends a configuration change to all clients which turns off USB drive access via a registry.

In embodiments the threat management facility may also provide for the removal of applications that may interfere with the operation of the threat management facility such as competitor products that may also be attempting similar threat management functions. The removal of such products may be initiated automatically whenever such products are detected. In the case where such applications are services are provided indirectly through a third party product the application may be suspended until action is taken to remove or disable the third party product s protection facility.

Threat management against a sometimes quickly evolving malware environment may require timely updates and the update management facility may be provided by the threat management facility . In addition a policy management facility may also require update management e.g. as provided by the update facility herein described as the enterprise facility requirements for policies change. The update management for the security facility and policy management facility may be provided directly by the threat management facility such as by a hosted system or in conjunction with the administration facility . In embodiments the threat management facility may provide for patch management where a patch may be an update to an operating system an application a system tool or the like where one of the reasons for the patch is to reduce vulnerability to threats.

In embodiments the security facility and policy management facility may push information to the enterprise facility network and or client facility the enterprise facility network and or client facility may pull information from the security facility and policy management facility network server facilities there may be a combination of pushing and pulling of information between the security facility and the policy management facility network servers enterprise facility network and client facilities or the like. For example the enterprise facility network and or client facility may pull information from the security facility and policy management facility network server facility may request the information using the security facility and policy management facility update module the request may be based on a certain time period by a certain time by a date on demand or the like. In another example the security facility and policy management facility network servers may push the information to the enterprise facility s network and or client facility by providing notification that there are updates available for download and then transmitting the information. The combination of the security management network server facility and security update module may function substantially the same as the policy management facility network server and policy update module by providing information to the enterprise facility network and the client facility in a push or pull method. In an embodiment the policy management facility and the security facility management update modules may work in concert to provide all the needed information to the enterprise facility s network and or client facility for control of application execution. In an embodiment the policy update module and security update module may be combined into a single update module.

As threats are identified and characterized the threat management facility may create definition updates that may be used to allow the threat management facility to detect and remediate the latest malicious software unwanted applications configuration and policy changes and the like. The threat definition facility may contain threat identification updates also referred to as definition files. A definition file may be a virus identity file that may include definitions of known or potential malicious code. The definition files may provide information that may identify malicious code within files applications or the like. The definition files may be accessed by security management facility when scanning files or applications within the client facility for the determination of malicious code that may be within the file or application. The definition files may contain a number of commands definitions or instructions to be parsed and acted upon or the like. In embodiments the client facility may be updated with new definition files periodically to provide the client facility with the most recent malicious code definitions the updating may be performed on a set time period may be updated on demand from the client facility may be updated on demand from the network may be updated on a received malicious code alert or the like. In an embodiment the client facility may request an update to the definition files from an update facility within the network may request updated definition files from a computing facility external to the network updated definition files may be provided to the client facility from within the network definition files may be provided to the client facility from an external computing facility from an external network or the like.

In an embodiment a definition management facility may provide for the timely updates of definition files information to the network client facilities and the like. New and altered malicious code and malicious applications may be continually created and distributed to networks worldwide. The definition files that maintain the definitions of the malicious code and malicious application information for the protection of the networks and client facilities may need continual updating to provide continual defense of the network and client facility from the malicious code and malicious applications. The definition files management may provide for automatic and manual methods of updating the definition files. In embodiments the network may receive definition files and distribute the definition files to the network client facilities the client facilities may receive the definition files directly or the network and client facilities may both receive the definition files or the like. In an embodiment the definition files may be updated on a fixed periodic basis on demand by the network and or the client facility as a result of an alert of a new malicious code or malicious application or the like. In an embodiment the definition files may be released as a supplemental file to an existing definition files to provide for rapid updating of the definition files.

In a similar manner the security management facility may be used to scan an outgoing file and verify that the outgoing file is permitted to be transmitted per the enterprise facility rules and policies. By checking outgoing files the security management facility may be able discover malicious code infected files that were not detected as incoming files as a result of the client facility having been updated with either new definition files or policy management facility information. The definition files may discover the malicious code infected file by having received updates of developing malicious code from the administration facility updates from a definition files provider or the like. The policy management facility may discover the malicious code infected file by having received new updates from the administration facility from a rules provider or the like.

The threat management facility may provide for a way to control access to the enterprise facility networks. For instance the enterprise facility may want to restrict access to certain applications networks files printers servers databases or the like. In addition the enterprise facility may want to restrict user access under certain conditions such as the user s location usage history need to know job position connection type time of day method of authentication client system configuration or the like. Network access rules may be developed by the enterprise facility or pre packaged by a supplier and managed by the threat management facility in conjunction with the administration facility . Network access rules and control may be responsible for determining if a client facility application should be granted access to a requested network location. The network location may be on the same network as the facility or may be on another network. In an embodiment the network access control may verify access rights for client facilities from within the network or may verify access rights of computer facilities from external networks. When network access for a client facility is denied the network access control may send an information file to the client facility the information file may contain data or commands that may provide instructions for the remedial action facility . The information sent by the network access facility control may be a data file. The data file may contain a number of commands definitions instructions or commands to be parsed and acted upon through the remedial action facility or the like. The information sent by the network access facility control may be a command or command file that the remedial action facility may access and take action upon.

In an embodiment the network access rules may provide an information store to be accessed by the network access control. The network access rules facility may include databases such as a block list a black list an allowed list a white list an unacceptable network site database an acceptable network site database a network site reputation database or the like of network access locations that may or may not be accessed by the client facility . Additionally the network access rules facility may incorporate rule evaluation the rule evaluation may parse network access requests and apply the parsed information to network access rules. The network access rule facility may have a generic set of rules that may be in support of an enterprise facility s network access policies such as denying access to certain types of websites controlling instant messenger accesses or the like. Rule evaluation may include regular expression rule evaluation or other rule evaluation method for interpreting the network access request and comparing the interpretation to the established rules for network access. In an embodiment the network access rules facility may receive a rules evaluation request from the network access control and may return the rules evaluation to the network access control.

Similar to the threat definitions facility the network access rule facility may provide updated rules and policies to the network access rules facility . The network access rules facility may be maintained by the network administration facility using the network access rules facility management. In an embodiment the network administration facility may be able to maintain a set of access rules manually by adding rules changing rules deleting rules or the like. Additionally the administration facility may be able to retrieve predefined rule sets from a provider that may provide a set of rules to be applied to an entire enterprise facility . The network administration facility may be able to modify the predefined rules as needed for a particular enterprise facility using the network access rules facility management.

When a threat or policy violation is detected by the threat management facility the threat management facility may provide for a remedial action facility . Remedial action may take a plurality of forms such as terminating or modifying an ongoing process or interaction sending a warning to a client or administration facility of an ongoing process or interaction executing a program or application to remediate against a threat or violation record interactions for subsequent evaluation or the like. Remedial action may be associated with an application that responds to information that a client facility network access request has been denied. In an embodiment when the data file is received remedial action may parse the data file interpret the various aspects of the data file and act on the parsed data file information to determine actions to be taken on an application requesting access to a denied network location. In an embodiment when the data file is received remedial action may access the threat definitions to parse the data file and determine an action to be taken on an application requesting access to a denied network location. In an embodiment the information received from the facility may be a command or a command file. The remedial action facility may carry out any commands that are received or parsed from a data file from the facility without performing any interpretation of the commands. In an embodiment the remedial action facility may interact with the received information and may perform various actions on a client requesting access to a denied network location. The action may be one or more of continuing to block all requests to a denied network location a malicious code scan on the application a malicious code scan on the client facility quarantine of the application terminating the application isolation of the application isolation of the client facility to a location within the network that restricts network access blocking a network access port from a client facility reporting the application to a administration facility or the like.

Remedial action may be provided as a result of a detection of a threat or violation. The detection techniques facility may include monitoring the enterprise facility network or end point devices such as by monitoring streaming data through the gateway across the network through routers and hubs and the like. The detection techniques facility may include monitoring activity and stored files on computing facilities such as on server facilities desktop computers laptop computers other mobile computing devices and the like. Detection techniques such as scanning a computer s stored files may provide the capability of checking files for stored threats either in the active or passive state. Detection techniques such as streaming file management may provide the capability of checking files received at the network gateway facility client facility and the like. This may provide the capability of not allowing a streaming file or portions of the streaming file containing malicious code from entering the client facility gateway facility or network. In an embodiment the streaming file may be broken into blocks of information and a plurality of virus identities may be used to check each of the blocks of information for malicious code. In an embodiment any blocks that are not determined to be clear of malicious code may not be delivered to the client facility gateway facility or network.

Verifying that the threat management facility is detecting threats and violations to established policy may require the ability to test the system either at the system level or for a particular computing component. The testing facility may allow the administration facility to coordinate the testing of the security configurations of client facility computing facilities on a network. The administration facility may be able to send test files to a set of client facility computing facilities to test the ability of the client facility to determine acceptability of the test file. After the test file has been transmitted a recording facility may record the actions taken by the client facility in reaction to the test file. The recording facility may aggregate the testing information from the client facility and report the testing information to the administration facility . The administration facility may be able to determine the level of preparedness of the client facility computing facilities by the reported information. Remedial action may be taken for any of the client facility computing facilities as determined by the administration facility remedial action may be taken by the administration facility or by the user of the client facility .

The threat research facility may provide a continuously ongoing effort to maintain the threat protection capabilities of the threat management facility in light of continuous generation of new or evolved forms of malware. Threat research may include researchers and analysts working on known and emerging malware such as viruses rootkits a spyware as well as other computer threats such as phishing spam scams and the like. In embodiments through threat research the threat management facility may be able to provide swift global responses to the latest threats.

The threat management facility may provide threat protection to the enterprise facility where the enterprise facility may include a plurality of networked components such as client facility server facility DNS server facility administration facility firewall gateway hubs routers threat management appliance desktop users mobile users and the like. In embodiments it may be the end point computer security facility located on a computer s desktop which may provide threat protection to a user and associated enterprise facility . In embodiments the term end point may refer to a computer system that may source data receive data evaluate data buffer data or the like such as a user s desktop computer as an end point computer a firewall as a data evaluation end point computer system a laptop as a mobile end point computer a PDA as a hand held end point computer. In embodiments end point may refer to a source or destination for data including such components where the destination is characterized by an evaluation point for data and where the data may be sent to a subsequent destination after evaluation. The end point computer security facility may be an application loaded onto the computer platform or computer support component where the application may accommodate the plurality of computer platforms and or functional requirements of the component. For instance a client facility computer may be one of a plurality of computer platforms such as Windows Macintosh Linux and the like where the end point computer security facility may be adapted to the specific platform while maintaining a uniform product and product services across platforms. Additionally components may have different functions to serve within the enterprise facility s networked computer based infrastructure. For instance computer support components provided as hubs routers server facility DNS server facility firewalls and the like may require unique security application software to protect their portion of the system infrastructure while providing an element in an integrated threat management system that extends out beyond the threat management facility to incorporate all computer resources under its protection.

The enterprise facility may include a plurality of client facility computing platforms on which the end point computer security facility is adapted. A client facility computing platform may be a computer system that is able to access a service on another computer such as a server facility via a network. This client facility server facility model may apply to a plurality of networked applications such as a client facility connecting to an enterprise facility application server facility a web browser client facility connecting to a web server facility an e mail client facility retrieving e mail from an internet service provider s mail storage servers and the like. In embodiments traditional large client facility applications may be switched to websites which may increase the browser s role as a client facility . Clients may be classified as a function of the extent to which they perform their own processing. For instance client facilities are sometimes classified as a fat client facility or thin client facility . The fat client facility also known as a thick client facility or rich client facility may be a client facility that performs the bulk of data processing operations itself and does not necessarily rely on the server facility . The fat client facility may be most common in the form of a personal computer where the personal computer may operate independent of any server facility . Programming environments for fat clients may include Curl Delphi Droplets Java win32 X11 and the like. Thin clients may offer minimal processing capabilities for instance the thin client facility may primarily provide a graphical user interface provided by an application server facility which may perform the bulk of any required data processing. Programming environments for thin clients may include JavaScript AJAX ASP JSP Ruby on Rails Python s Django PHP and the like. The client facility may also be a mix of the two such as processing data locally but relying on a server facility for data storage. As a result this hybrid client facility may provide benefits from both the fat client facility type such as multimedia support and high performance and the thin client facility type such as high manageability and flexibility. In embodiments the threat management facility and associated end point computer security facility may provide seamless threat protection to the plurality of clients and client facility types across the enterprise facility .

The enterprise facility may include a plurality of server facility such as application servers communications servers file servers database servers proxy servers mail servers fax servers game servers web servers and the like. A server facility which may also be referred to as a server facility application server facility operating system server facility computer or the like may be an application program or operating system that accepts client facility connections in order to service requests from clients . The server facility application may run on the same computer as the client facility using it or the server facility and the client facility may be running on different computers and communicating across the network. Server facility applications may be divided among server facility computers with the dividing depending upon the workload. For instance under light load scenarios all server facility applications may run on a single computer and under heavy load conditions a single server facility application may run on multiple computers. In embodiments the threat management facility may provide threat protection to server facilities within the enterprise facility as load conditions and application changes are made.

A server facility may also be an appliance facility where the appliance facility provides specific services onto the network. Though the appliance facility is a server facility computer that may be loaded with a server facility operating system and server facility application the enterprise facility user may not need to configure it as the configuration may have been performed by a third party. In an embodiment an enterprise facility appliance may be a server facility appliance that has been configured and adapted for use with the threat management facility and located within the facilities of the enterprise facility . The enterprise facility s threat management appliance may enable the enterprise facility to administer an on site local managed threat protection configuration where the administration facility may access the threat resources through an interface such as a web portal. In an alternate embodiment the enterprise facility may be managed remotely from a third party vendor or the like without an appliance facility located within the enterprise facility . In this instance the appliance functionality may be a shared hardware product between pluralities of enterprises . In embodiments the appliance facility may be located at the enterprise facility where the enterprise facility maintains a degree of control. In embodiments a hosted service may be provided where the appliance may still be an on site black box to the enterprise facility physically placed there because of infrastructure requirements but managed by a third party vendor or the like.

Simple server facility appliances may also be utilized across the enterprise facility s network infrastructure such as switches routers wireless routers hubs gateways print servers net modems and the like. These simple server facility appliances may not require configuration by the enterprise facility but may require protection from threats via an end point computer security facility . These appliances may provide interconnection services within the enterprise facility network and therefore may advance the spread of a threat if not properly protected.

One way for a client facility to be protected from threats from within the enterprise facility network may be a personal firewall. A personal firewall may be an application that controls network traffic to and from a client permitting or denying communications based on a security policy. Personal firewalls may be designed for use by end users which may result in protection for only the computer on which it s installed. Personal firewalls may be able to control network traffic by providing prompts each time a connection is attempted and adapting security policy accordingly. Personal firewalls may also provide some level of intrusion detection which may allow the software to terminate or block connectivity where it suspects an intrusion is being attempted. Other features that may be provided by a personal firewall may include alerts about outgoing connection attempts control of program access to networks hiding the client from port scans by not responding to unsolicited network traffic monitoring of applications that may be listening for incoming connections monitoring and regulation of incoming and outgoing network traffic prevention of unwanted network traffic from installed applications reporting applications that make connection attempts reporting destination servers with which applications may be attempting communications and the like. In embodiments the personal firewall may be provided by the threat management facility .

Another important component that may be protected by an end point computer security facility is a network firewall facility which may be a hardware or software device that may be configured to permit deny or proxy data through a computer network that has different levels of trust in its source of data. For instance an internal enterprise facility network may have a high level of trust because the source of all data has been sourced from within the enterprise facility . An example of a low level of trust is the Internet because the source of data may be unknown. A zone with an intermediate trust level situated between the Internet and a trusted internal network may be referred to as a perimeter network . Since firewall facilities represent boundaries between threat levels the end point computer security facility associated with the firewall facility may provide resources that may control the flow of threats at this enterprise facility network entry point. Firewall facilities and associated end point computer security facility may also be associated with a network node that may be equipped for interfacing between networks that use different protocols. In embodiments the end point computer security facility may provide threat protection in a plurality of network infrastructure locations such as at the enterprise facility network entry point i.e. the firewall facility or gateway at the server facility at distribution points within the network i.e. the routers and hubs at the desktop of client facility computers and the like. In embodiments the most effective location for threat detection may be at the user s computer desktop end point computer security facility .

The interface between the threat management facility and the enterprise facility and through the appliance facility to embedded end point computer security facilities may include a set of tools that may be the same for all enterprise implementations but allow each enterprise to implement different controls. In embodiments these controls may include both automatic actions and managed actions. Automatic actions may include downloads of the end point computer security facility to components of the enterprise facility downloads of updates to existing end point computer security facilities of the enterprise facility uploaded network interaction requests from enterprise facility components to the threat management facility and the like. In embodiments automatic interactions between the enterprise facility and the threat management facility may be configured by the threat management facility and an administration facility in the enterprise facility . The administration facility may configure policy rules that determine interactions such as developing rules for accessing applications as in who is authorized and when applications may be used establishing rules for ethical behavior and activities rules governing the use of entertainment software such as games or personal use software such as IM and VoIP rules for determining access to enterprise facility computing resources including authentication levels of access risk assessment and usage history tracking rules for when an action is not allowed such as whether an action is completely denied or just modified in its execution and the like. The administration facility may also establish license management which in turn may further determine interactions associated with a licensed application. In embodiments interactions between the threat management facility and the enterprise facility may provide threat protection to the enterprise facility by managing the flow of network data into and out of the enterprise facility through automatic actions that may be configured by the threat management facility or the administration facility .

Client facilities within the enterprise facility may be connected to the enterprise facility network by way of wired network facilities or wireless network facilities . Client facilities connected to the enterprise facility network via a wired facility or wireless facility may receive similar protection as both connection types are ultimately connected to the same enterprise facility network with the same end point computer security facility and the same threat protected enterprise facility environment. Mobile wireless facility clients because of their ability to connect to any wireless network access point may connect to the internet outside the enterprise facility and therefore outside the threat protected environment of the enterprise facility . In this instance the mobile client facility if not for the presence of the end point computer security facility may experience a malware attack or perform actions counter to enterprise facility established policies. In addition there may be a plurality of ways for the threat management facility to protect the out of enterprise facility mobile client facility that has an embedded end point computer security facility such as by providing URI filtering in personal routers using a web appliance as a DNS proxy or the like. Mobile client facilities that are components of the enterprise facility but temporarily outside connectivity with the enterprise facility network may be provided with the same threat protection and policy control as client facilities inside the enterprise facility . In addition mobile client facilities may receive the same interactions to and from the threat management facility as client facilities inside the enterprise facility where mobile client facilities may be considered a virtual extension of the enterprise facility receiving all the same services via their embedded end point computer security facility .

Interactions between the threat management facility and the components of the enterprise facility including mobile client facility extensions of the enterprise facility may ultimately be connected through the internet . Threat management facility downloads and upgrades to the enterprise facility may be passed from the firewalled networks of the threat management facility through to the end point computer security facility equipped components of the enterprise facility . In turn the end point computer security facility components of the enterprise facility may upload policy and access requests back across the internet and through to the threat management facility . The Internet however is also the path through which threats may be transmitted from their source. These network threats may include threats from a plurality of sources including websites e mail IM VoIP application software and the like. These threats may attempt to attack a mobile enterprise facility client facility equipped with an end point computer security facility but in embodiments as long as the mobile client facility is embedded with an end point computer security facility as described above threats may have no better success than if the mobile client facility where inside the enterprise facility .

However if the mobile client facility where to attempt to connect into an unprotected connection point such as at a secondary location that is not a part of the enterprise facility the mobile client facility may be required to request network interactions through the threat management facility where contacting the threat management facility may be performed prior to any other network action. In embodiments the client facility s end point computer security facility may manage actions in unprotected network environments such as when the client facility is in a secondary location or connecting wirelessly to a non enterprise facility wireless internet connection where the end point computer security facility may dictate what actions are allowed blocked modified or the like. For instance if the client facility s end point computer security facility is unable to establish a secured connection to the threat management facility the end point computer security facility may inform the user of such and recommend that the connection not be made. In the instance when the user chooses to connect despite the recommendation the end point computer security facility may perform specific actions during or after the unprotected connection is made including running scans during the connection period running scans after the connection is terminated storing interactions for subsequent threat and policy evaluation contacting the threat management facility upon first instance of a secured connection for further actions and or scanning restricting access to network and local resources or the like. In embodiments the end point computer security facility may perform specific actions to remediate possible threat incursions or policy violations during or after the unprotected connection.

The secondary location may have no end point computer security facilities as a part of its computer components such as its firewalls servers clients hubs wireless hubs and the like. As a result the computer components of the secondary location may be open to threat attacks and become potential sources of threats as well as any mobile enterprise facility clients that may be connected to the secondary location s network. In this instance these computer components may now unknowingly spread a threat to other components connected to the network.

Some threats may not come directly from the Internet such as from non enterprise facility controlled mobile devices that are physically brought into the enterprise facility and connected to the enterprise facility client facilities . The connection may be made from direct connection with the enterprise facility s client facility such as through a USB port or in physical proximity with the enterprise facility s client facility such that a wireless facility connection can be established such as through a Bluetooth connection. These physical proximity threats may be another mobile computing device a portable memory storage device a mobile communications device or the like such as CDs and DVDs memory stick flash drive external hard drive cell phone PDAs MP3 players digital cameras point to point devices digital picture frames digital pens navigation devices appliances and the like. A physical proximity threat may have been previously infiltrated by network threats while connected to an unprotected network connection outside the enterprise facility and when connected to the enterprise facility client facility pose a threat. Because of their mobile nature physical proximity threats may infiltrate computing resources in any location such as being physically brought into the enterprise facility site connected to an enterprise facility client facility while that client facility is mobile plugged into an unprotected client facility at a secondary location and the like. A mobile device once connected to an unprotected computer resource may become a physical proximity threat . In embodiments the end point computer security facility may provide enterprise facility computing resources with threat protection against physical proximity threats for instance through scanning the device prior to allowing data transfers through security validation certificates through establishing a safe zone within the enterprise facility computing resource to transfer data into for evaluation and the like.

Now that the overall system has been described we turn towards a set of embodiments for controlling data through the use of data tags. It should be understood that the following embodiments may be managed through a threat management facility along with other services such as those described herein.

The enterprise may generate many documents in the course of doing business many of which are company private or competition sensitive. In the more extreme case a company may do work for government agencies where generated documents may be categorized as confidential classified secret and the like. When the enterprise wants to control a paper version of a document they may mark the document with some appropriate indication that this document is controlled such as specifying that the document is not to leave the company or not to be photocopied without authorization. You might even image that the enterprise might tag the document in some way that would sound an alarm if the document was carried out of the building or into a photo copy area. However most documents today are generated stored and transferred in an electronic format and identification and controlling the storage and movement of company sensitive electronic data may require some form of electronic data tag that can be attached to the data. In addition because the majority of electronic data storage and transfer is within the company any electronic tagging system may need to be unobtrusive to the normal electronic traffic within the enterprise . The present invention provides a way to tag electronic data. Further the enterprise may choose to associate electronic data tags only with electronic data that an enterprise decides to control. For instance the enterprise may choose to only control whether the data leaves the enterprise to control whether the data stays in the enterprise is copied to some portable storage medium and the like. In embodiments a plurality of data tagging configurations may be implemented such as tagging data that may not leave the enterprise tagging data that must stay in the enterprise tagging all data tagging data with different categories and the like. Therefore the present invention may provide a selected degree of control to the storage and transfer of electronic data and in doing so not impede the normal flow of data transfers within the enterprise .

In embodiments an enterprise may attach a data tag to a plurality of data types such as text a data file a word processing file a spreadsheet file a drawing file a presentation file a database file source code executable code software a webpage an image an audio file a multimedia file a game and application and the like. The data tags may identify the associated data as at least one of a plurality of classifications such as company confidential company private company secret publicly available sales material company accounts company records personnel records and the like. In embodiments not all data needs to be tagged and it may even be the case that the majority of company data does not get tagged. Files may be provided multiple tags. Data that is not controlled may be tagged as being not controlled or not tagged at all. In embodiments the present invention may provide a way to control company electronic data that is flexible to the needs of the enterprise .

In embodiments a data tag may contain attributes associated with the data such as the type of data the author of the document the date of creation the date of last revision the history of revisions the history of copies made the history of file access the size of the document the location history the storage history and the like. These attributes may be associated with the control of the data the searching for the data the detection of the data for tracking purposes for history purposes for examination by the administrator associated with a data management system and the like.

In embodiments a data tag may be associated with a policy of the enterprise where that policy is centrally controlled locally controlled controlled in a distributed manner and the like. The policy may indicate the control restrictions placed on the data such as transfers out of the company sending via email sending via IM uploading to the internet sending information to customers copying to a portable storage medium storage on a personal computer transfer to a personal computing device and the like. In addition the policy may indicate user privileges associated with the data such as whether the user may access the data store the data transfer the data upload the data copy the data copy the data onto a portable storage device edit the data and the like. In embodiments the policy may be based on a sender as well as a recipient for example as some senders always being able to send confidential information while other sender may never be able to send confidential information. In embodiments the policy may assign a right to the data such as the right to send information to customers the right to copy the data to a CD and the like. In embodiments the policy may be applied to groups of users such as company departments management levels users associated with a facility and the like. For example a user in a senior level of management may have more privileges than other members of the company such as the ability to copy a company sensitive data onto a portable memory device in order to take it on business travel.

In embodiments the data tags may be detected by a scanning facility such as a security scanning facility a client side security scanning facility network device security scanning facility a device security scanning facility associated with a firewall associated with a router associated with a gateway associated with a proxy server associated with the client associated with the end point security facility and the like. In embodiments the scanning for data tags may not require a scanning of the content of the data. For example the data tag may be attached to the data in a predetermined manner such as in a predetermined location inside the data file stored in a separate data file or stream stored centrally in a tagging server and the like. In embodiments the data tag may be metadata associated with the data a field associated with the data embedded in the data associated with the data header attached to the data associated with a hash a label a marker a stamp and the like. In embodiments the tag may be related by filename such as a second file a merger document a second file merger document and the like.

In embodiments the scanning facility may detect the data tag while the associated data is being accessed transferred copied edited uploaded downloaded transferred within the company transferred out of the company stored stored onto a portable storage medium and the like. The scanning facility upon detection of the data tag may compare the operation on the data associated with the data tag to restrictions specified under policy. For instance the operation on the data may be a transfer to a portable storage device and the scanning facility s comparison reveals that this is not allowed. In embodiments the scanning facility may take an action associated with the detection of the data tag and the comparison made such as to deny or to allow the current operation on the data. Continuing with the example the scanning facility may deny the transfer to the portable storage device. In addition the scanning facility may take actions that log or alert facilities within the enterprise such as logging all activity associated with the tagged data alerting the administrator when a restricted action is taking place providing a warning to the user that this data is controlled and a logging action and or alerting action may take place. Continuing with the example the user and the administrator may be alerted when the transfer to the portable storage device was denied. Alternatively the data tag may indicate that the restrictions are associated with specific users and when the transfer is requested the user may be queried for authorization identification or the like. In embodiments the scanning facility may provide for a detection mechanism i.e. noticing when restricted operations are executed an enforcement mechanism i.e. preventing the restricted operation logging of activities associated with tagged data and the like. In embodiments the scanning facility may default to not taking any actions associated with transfers of tagged data internal to the enterprise thus providing a minimum disruption to the normal flow of data within the enterprise . In embodiments no action may be taken against untagged files within the enterprise such as with internal emails providing only enterprise perimeter enforcement and the like.

In embodiments tagging may be user generated in a decentralized or centralized manner or automatically generated. For example decentralized or centralized tagging may provide a user the ability to tag data through a user interface where the user may select the appropriate tag with the appropriate restrictions. In addition the process of tagging may provide for the logging of the activity. Decentralized scanning may provide the tagging facility from end point computers within the enterprise where centralized scanning may provide the tagging facility from a tagging server. In addition the tagging facility may provide for the scanning of the data for confidential data and for cryptographical signatures associated with the data and the tag to prevent tag forgery. In embodiments tagging may also be performed automatically without user intervention such as by deducing the content or context of the data e.g. user program security settings and the like .

Referring to and in embodiments a decentralized tagging facility process is presented where users may add tags to data utilizing a user interface. The user may be able to select the appropriate tags where the list of tags may be configurable and could be controlled using a central management system. When data is tagged the data may be scanned for target content such as confidential content. If no target data is found then a tag may be added to the data and the operation logged thus finishing the process. If target data is found then the user may be alerted . The user may be permitted to apply the tag anyway in which case the user may choose to tag the data . If the user is not allowed to tag the data or the user decides to not tag the data then the operation is logged and the process is ended.

Referring to and in embodiments a centralized tagging facility process is presented where a central tagging server may be used. The main difference from the decentralized case may be that the tagging server may scan the data for target data such as confidential data log the operation be able to cryptographically sign the data plus tag so that the tag cannot be forged and the like. In embodiments the user may request a tag which may send the data to the tagging server . The tagging server may scan the data for target data . If target data is detected then a tag may be added to the data the tagged data may be sent back to the client and the operation may be logged . If target data is detected then the user may be alerted and the user may have the option to tag the data anyway . If the user decides to tag the data then the data may be tagged successfully otherwise the operation is logged and the process finishes. In embodiments automatic tagging may include the step of a user requesting a tag to be iterated by the platform or application without user intervention assigning the tag of appropriate type without the user needing to specify it.

Referring to and in embodiments a restricted operation process is presented. When a user performs a restricted operation the detection mechanism may detect that the operation is about to occur and checks the data to see if it contains any tags . If a tag is detected that permits the operation the tag may be verified such as via cryptographic signature where then the operation may proceed. The operation may be logged and performed and the process finishes. In embodiments the normal path for tagging may be to only log the action. If a valid tag is not found that allows the operation then the user may be alerted to the problem . The user may be able to request a tag at this point . If the user decides not to request a tag or the user is not permitted to tag then the action may be logged and the process finishes. If when prompted the user requests a tag then the data may be scanned for target data . If no target data is detected then a tag may be added to the data the operation may be logged and the operation is performed finishing the process.

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention is presented. In this embodiment target data may be targeted with a field specific tag . Tags may be scanned as they are communicated from a computer facility . Field specific tags may be identified as the result of scanning data . Finally the communication of the data based on the field specific tag may be managed in accordance with a policy . In embodiments managing the communication of the data based on the field specific tag in accordance with a policy may involve blocking communication of the data permitting the further communication of the data generating a contingent alert before allowing further communication of the data and the like. Further the scanning of data for tags may be as they are communicated to the computer facility. For example a new business presentation may be tagged as company confidential and may not be communicated to outside the company. The scanning facility may detect the transmission of the data and block the transmission in accordance to policy. In addition policy may dictate that the administrator be notified of the attempted transmission.

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention may be presented. In this embodiment data may be scanned that is communicated from a client computing facility . Target data may be identified during the scanning of data based on the information contained in the field specific tag . In embodiments the field specific tag may contain information identifying the data as company confidential where the interruption may persist until the user confirms that it is permissible to communicate the data. If communication of the data continues an alert may be sent to an administrator for logging of a confidential information communication event where the event may include information pertaining to the computer facility and a user associated with the computer facility. The interruption may persist if the communication is a communication to an unapproved recipient. The information identifying the data as company confidential may include a level of confidentiality. In addition the scanning of data that is communicated from the client may involve scanning all data that is communicated from the client to an outside network recipient. For example a user may attempt to transmit company private personnel documents to outside the company. The scanner may detect the tag in the documents being transmitted and interrupt the transmission asking the user to confirm that they have authority to do so such as through the entry of a password or the like. If the user persists in attempts to transmit the personnel data the administrator may be alerted. In embodiments information associated with the transmission or with the tag itself may indicate where the data is being transmitted to such as a tag that provides a memory storage history.

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention may be presented. In this embodiment data may be scanned that is communicated from a client computing facility . Target data may be identified during the scanning of data based on a field specific tag . An interruption may be caused in the communication of the data based on the presence of the field specific tag . For example a data file may contain a tag that indicates that the data may not be emailed. The scanner then detects the tag within an attachment of an email and blocks the transmission of the attachment.

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention is presented. In this embodiment data may be scanned that is communicated from a client computing facility . Target data may be identified during the scanning of data that may not include a field specific tag . An interruption in the communication of the data may be caused based on the absence of the field specific tag . For example an enterprise may have implemented a tagging system that requires all data to be tagged even if the tag indentifies the data as having no restrictions. However under this system data that has no tag may be regarded as suspicious and policy may dictate some action such as blocking the transmission of the data. In embodiments the user may be notified that the data could not be communicated because it had not been tagged. In embodiments the enterprise may implement a policy where only the documents that are to be allowed to be sent externally are tagged i.e. data with no tag may be restricted .

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention is presented. In this embodiment data may be scanned that is communicated from a client computing facility intended for unapproved recipients . Target data may be identified during the scanning of data based on a field specific tag . An interruption in the communication of the data may be caused based on the information in the field specific tag . In embodiments communicating from the client may involve emailing from the client IMing from the client VoIPing from the client storing to a removable memory device from the client uploading from the client uploading from the client to an FTP site uploading from the client through HTTP protocol. The scanning facility may be a client based security facility adapted to scan data for compliance with a corporate policy where the scanning facility may be further adapted to scan all outgoing email all incoming email and the like. Unapproved recipients may be non company employees recipients not listed on a white list recipients listed on a block list and the like. In embodiments the field specific tag may indicate that the data is confidential data. For example personnel records of a company may not be authorized for transmission to any client that is not under the control of either the human resources department or a high level manager. Information in the tag may indicate this company policy. So if any transmission of personnel records was attempted to an unapproved recipient the scanning facility would interrupt the communication. In embodiments policy may dictate further actions such as alerting the administrator and the personnel department of the attempted transmission.

Referring to a process flow embodiment of the present invention may be presented. In this embodiment data may be scanned that is communicated from a client computing facility intended for unapproved recipients . Target data may be identified during the scanning of data based on a field specific tag . An interruption in the communication of the data may be caused based on the presence of the field specific tag . For example an enterprise may have a tagging system that only tags data that may not be transmitted outside the enterprise . Now if the scanning facility detects the presence of a tag the scanning facility may block the transmission based on the presence of the tag. In this instance the policy may include blocking all tagged data transmissions to outside the enterprise .

Referring to an embodiment of a user interface is depicted in association with an application program. In embodiments a user may be provided a user interface that is integrated into an application program of a computing facility where the user interface may facilitate the tagging of data as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility may identify a resultant tag and cause an action to be taken. In addition the action taken may be in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information where a corporate policy may be defined managed encoded distributed interpreted and the like by computer systems which assist in enforcing the corporate policy. The application program may be any of a plurality of computer applications such as a word processing program a spreadsheet program a presentation generating program an email program an IM program an SMS program a financial program a product design program a drawing program an image processing program and the like. The data being tagged may be a file produced by the application program data in a file produced by the application program and the like. In embodiments the user interface may associated with the application program and be provided through a menu item a toolbar item a right click menu item a drop down list a checkbox a radio button and the like. For example depicts an application program with tagging functionality integrated into the application program s menu bar . Here the user may be utilizing a tagging drop down menu to select a type of tag to be applied to the document being currently edited such as confidential non confidential personal sales material and the like. This is but one example of how an application program may provide tagging functionality and one skilled in the art will appreciate that this type of integrated functionality may be implemented in a variety of other ways.

Referring to an embodiment of a user interface is depicted in association with a file utility program menu bar. In embodiments a user may be provided a user interface that is associated with file utility program for use on a computing facility where the user interface may facilitate the tagging of data as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility may identify a resultant tag and cause an action to be taken. In addition the action taken may be in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information. The file utility program may present data with a directory and the user interface may facilitate the tagging of the data presented within a directory may present a directory within the directory structure as data and the user interface facilitates the tagging of a directory within the directory structure such that all files associated with the tagged file may become tagged themselves and the like. In addition the user interface that facilitates the tagging may be presented in association with the file utility program as a stand alone feature or the like. For example depicts a file utility program with integrated tagging functionality. Here a directory structure is presented where the tagging type is provided along with other file information such as filename file size file type date of last modification and the like. The file utility program may provide tagging functionality as part of its menu bar such as through a tagging drop down menu as illustrated. This is but one example of how a file utility program may provide tagging functionality and one skilled in the art will appreciate that this type of integrated functionality may be implemented in a variety of other ways.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for tagging a document based on analyzing the contents of a file for indicia of confidential information . In response to finding the indicia of confidential information the file may be tagged as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility will identify the resultant tag . In addition that identification of the resultant tag may cause an action such as to be taken in compliance with a corporate policy as relating to a communication of confidential information . The indicia of confidential information may be the presence of a term such as confidential the presence of a term that is synonymous with the term confidential the presence of a term identified by a corporate policy and the like. The indicia of confidential information may be contextual information that identifies the information as confidential in nature such as information in the subject line of a memo or email the name of the file the distribution list associated with the document the department or individual creating the information and the like.

In embodiments there may be a plurality of algorithms for determining the presence of a tag such as through the identification of a tag indicating confidential information is present including clustering automatic classification machine learning and the like. The indicia of confidential information may be found by judging a similarity with other documents such as where similarity is measured by cosine similarity based on Dice coefficient based on Jaccard coefficient based on fragments of text found in the documents and the like. In embodiments indicia may be associated with confidential information as a content condition such as a regular expression a rule consisting of regular expressions and the like. In embodiments the indicia of confidential information may be determined by a classifier such as a Na ve Bayesian classifier and the like.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for tagging a document based on the location of the file. A file s saved storage location may be identified that may determine that the saved location is associated with a location for the saving of confidential information . In response to this determination the file may be tagged as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility identifies the resultant tag . In addition the identification of the resultant tag may cause an action to be taken such as in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information . In embodiments the saved location may be a file folder a directory location a storage device a portable memory device and the like.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for tagging a document based on the user saving the file . A user who saved and edited version of a file may be identified and determined to be a user that produces confidential information. In response to this determination the file may be tagged as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility identifies the resultant tag . In addition the identification of the resultant tag may cause an action to be taken such as in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information . In embodiments the user may be identified in a corporate policy may be a user that produces confidential information may belong to a group that produces confidential information and the like.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for tagging a document based on a template used in creating the file. A template may be used to create a file and this template may be used to create files containing confidential information . In response to this determination the file may be tagged as confidential in nature such that a tag scanning facility identifies the resultant tag . In addition the identification of the resultant tag may cause an action to be taken such as in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information . In embodiments the template may be identified in a corporate policy. In embodiments the file may be tagged as confidential non confidential confidential in nature non confidential in nature and the like.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for automatically tagging a document. The tagged data may be automatically tagged as confidential such that a tag scanning facility identities a resultant tag and cause an action to be taken such as in compliance with a corporate policy relating to a communication of confidential information . In embodiments automatic tagging may be applied based on a memory location where the data is stored based on a scan schedule when files are scanned for the presence of confidential information applied when the data is saved and the like. In embodiments the file may be tagged as confidential non confidential confidential in nature non confidential in nature and the like.

In embodiments the present invention provides for the tagging of electronic data and this tagged data may be detected by a scanning facility for enforcement of company policy regarding the transmission of electronic data. The system of tagging data within an enterprise may be implemented in a flexible manner that establishes different policy for different categories of tags. In this way the enterprise may provide a custom tagging system that balances the need for data control against the freedom of transmission associated with the enterprise . In embodiments the present invention may provide a reliable control of computer data that does not interfere with the normal intra company communications.

In an embodiment depicts a process flow embodiment of the present invention for providing the interruption of data communication based on the absence of a tag. In embodiments systems and methods according to the present invention may provide for a step A where data may be scanned that is intended to be communicated from the client computing facility. In embodiments the data may be associated with a file. In response to step A at step B restricted data may be identified by identifying an absence of a tag associated with the data. And finally in response to step B at step C an interruption to the intended communication may be caused. In embodiments the scanning of step A may involve scanning data intended for an outside recipient data intended for a non employee recipient data intended for a recipient outside of the corporate network outgoing email outgoing IMs outgoing VoIP data intended for a recipient represented on a block list of recipients data intended to be transferred to a removable memory data intended to be transferred to a memory stick data intended to be transferred to an FTP site and the like. In embodiments the intended communication of step A may be associated with an intended transfer of the data from the client computing facility and so step C may be associated with the interruption of the intended transfer.

In embodiments if the tag is identified as associated with the data to be communicated the tag may be analyzed to determine the communication protocol. The association of the tag with the data may be that the tag is attached to the data the tag is associated with an attachment of metadata to the data the association of the tag with the data modifies the filename associated with the data and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may provide a user interface that may facilitate the tagging of data with a confidentiality tag. Further the tagging of data such as on the client computing facility may be based on an event. The event may be associated with the saving of a file the automatic saving of a file the saving of a file by the user the creation of the file the scanning of the file the scheduled scanning of the file and the like. In addition the scanning process or scheduled scanning process may apply tags based on a parameter such as folder location content filename date user name user group and the like.

The elements depicted in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure. Thus while the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of these suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

