---

title: Multi-photon absorption for femtosecond micromachining and refractive index modification of tissues
abstract: By adapting femtosecond micromachining approaches developed in hydrogels, we can perform Intra-tissue Refractive Index Shaping (IRIS) in biological tissues. We reduced femtosecond laser pulse energies below the optical breakdown thresholds to create grating patterns that are associated with a change in the refractive index of the tissue. To increase two-photon absorption, we used a two (or more)-photon-absorbing chromophore.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09545340&OS=09545340&RS=09545340
owner: University of Rochester
number: 09545340
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 146 976 filed Jun. 26 2008 currently pending which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 929 397 filed Jun. 26 2007 and 61 026 890 filed Feb. 7 2008. The disclosures of all of those applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present application.

The work leading to the present invention was supported in part by NIH Grant Nos. R01 EY015836 and 08P0EY01319F. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The claimed invention was made by on behalf of or in connection with one or more of the following parties to a joint university corporation research agreement The University of Rochester and Bausch Lomb Inc. The agreement was in effect on and before the date the claimed invention was made and the claimed invention was made as a result of activities undertaken within the scope of the agreement.

The present invention is directed to vision correction and more particularly to vision correction by modifying the index of refraction of ocular tissue in the eye by a high repetition low pulse energy femtosecond laser and two photon absorption or other multi photon absorption.

Conventional ultraviolet nanosecond excimer lasers have been successfully used for corneal refractive surgery including photorefractive keratectomy PRK laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK and laser sub epithelial keratomileusis LASEK . By ablating corneal tissue through direct absorption of ultraviolet light these lasers alter the curvature thickness and ultimately the optical power of the cornea Krueger Trokel Schubert 1985 Pallikaris Saiganos 1994 .

The rapid development of femtosecond laser technology has provided an additional tool for corneal refractive surgery. In contrast to the ultraviolet lasers femtosecond laser pulses in the near infrared can pass through transparent corneal tissue without significant one photon absorption. Only when pulses are focused inside the cornea is the intensity of the beam sufficient to cause nonlinear typically multi photon absorption and a range of modifications to the tissue. Because the absorption is strongly nonlinear the laser affected region tends to be very small leaving the surrounding region unaffected or minimally affected Giguere Olivie Vidal Toetsch Girard Ozaki Kieffer Nada Brunette 2007 Loesel Niemz Bille Juhasz 1996 Vogel Noack Huffman Paltauf 2005 . This unique capability for high precision micromachining at different depths of the material is the primary reason for the introduction of femtosecond lasers to refractive surgery where their main application has been in corneal flap cutting Han Giese Zickler Sun Bille 2004 Holzer Rabsilber Auffarth 2006 Juhasz Loesel Horvath Kurtz Mourou 1999 Kim Kim Kim Choi Pak Tchah 2006 Kurtz Horvath Liu Krueger Juhasz 1998 Lubatschowski Maatz Heisterkamp Hetzel Drommer Welling Ertmer 2000 Meltendorf Burbach Buhren Bug Ohrloff Deller 2007 . For this application femtosecond laser pulses with a low repetition rate Hz kHz range are used to induce photo disruption and destructive optical breakdown of a single layer within the corneal stroma. This is generally associated with high density microplasma generation bubble formation and shock wave emission often extending beyond the focal region. Compared with mechanical blade microkeratomes femtosecond lasers are better able to define the depth of the cut eliminating some flap related complications and generally improving visual outcomes Lim Yang Kim Tchah 2006 Madeiros Stapelton Hammel Krueger Netto Wison 2007 Talamo Meltzer Gardner 2006 Touboul Salin Mortemousque Chabassier Mottay Leger Colin 2005 . However femtosecond laser flaps are more variable in thickness than intended like any cut they cause biomechanical changes in the cornea and since tissue is destroyed a wound healing reaction ensues Stonecipher Ignacio Stonecipher 2006 Talamo et al. 2006 Tran Sarayba Bor Garufis Duh Soltes Juhasz Kurtz 2005 . This wound healing reaction includes the differentiation of the usually quiescent and supportive stromal keratocytes into reactive inflammatory and contractile myofibroblasts Jester Petroll Cavanagh 1999 Wilson 2002 . Myofibroblasts appear responsible for most of the negative side effects of laser refractive surgery including haze or loss of corneal transparency and unintended changes in corneal shape which negatively impact the optical quality of the eye Jester et al. 1999 Netto Mohan Ambrosio Hutcheon Zieske Wilson 2005 . While increasingly popular femtosecond laser flap cutting remains limited by its high cost accessibility as well as uncertainty about its long term photochemical mechanical and biological effects Netto Mohan Medeiros Dupps Sinha Krueger Stapleton Rayborn Suto Wilson 2007 Stonecipher et al. 2006 . Recent reports have detailed negative side effects of this technique particularly in terms of tissue destruction which at some laser settings appears stronger than following mechanical microkeratome cuts Netto et al. 2007 Stonecipher et al. 2006 .

The ability to alter corneal shape or optics without causing tissue destruction and thus a wound healing response would significantly decrease or eliminate the negative side effects that compromise optical outcomes and ocular health following corneal manipulations. However most clinical femtosecond lasers currently employ J or mJ pulses with a low repetition rate Hz kHz range and spot diameters in the range of several m Juhasz et al. 1999 Kurtz et al. 1998 . In clear ocular tissues such as the cornea even several nJ femtosecond laser pulses with 170 fs pulse duration and 80 MHz repetition rate have only been reported to induce destructive optical breakdown K nig Krauss Riemann 2002 . For such lasers the diffusion time of non linearly absorbed laser energy is longer than the time interval between laser pulses. As a result absorbed energy accumulates locally with destructive consequences Schaff Garcia Mazur 2003 .

This contrasts with femtosecond laser parameters that have been established for some other applications. It was these applications that first suggested to us that it might be possible to use femtosecond lasers to do things other than pulverize biological materials. High repetition rate 1 MHz femtosecond laser oscillators with pulse energies on the order of nJ have successfully been used to create structures in different transparent optical materials a process we will refer to as micromachining in this application.

Micromachining has been successfully performed in various silica glasses Davis Miura Sugimoto Hirao 1996 Eaton Zhang Herman Yoshino Shah Bovatsek Arai 2005b Glezer Milosavljevic Huang Finlay Her Callan Mazur 1996 Homoelle Wielandy Gaeta Borrelli Smith 1999 Hwang Choi Grigoropoulos 2004 Li Itoh Watanabe Yamada Kuroda Nishii Jiang 2001 Minoshima Kowalevicz Hartl Ippen Fujimoto 2001 Schaffer Brodeur Garcia Mazur 2001 Streltsov Borrelli 2001 and photoresisted polymers Day Gu 2005 Ding Blackwell K nzler Knox 2006 Maruo Nakamura Kawata 1997 Mendonca Cerami Shih Tilghman Baldacchini Mazur 2008 Sowa Watanabe Tamaki Nishii Itoh 2006 Witzgall Vrigen Yablonovitch Doan Schwartz 1998 Zhou Ventura Vanner Gu 2004 Zoubir Lopez Richardson Richardson 2004 . Compared with the linear absorption induced by conventional continuous wave nanosecond and picosecond lasers during micromachining femtosecond laser pulses are tightly focused inside of transparent materials through a high or medium numerical aperture objective. The energy transfer rate achieved in the induced non linear absorption is higher than the rate in which it can be dissipated into the surrounding lattice allows a localized but non destructive energy deposition in the focal volume. The nonlinear absorption will usually create a microplasma that is responsible for the observed material modifications but which leaves the surrounding medium unaffected. Examples of structures created using femtosecond laser micromachining include optical waveguides and couplers Davis et al. 1996 Eaton et al. 2005b Homoelle et al. 1999 Mendonca et al. 2008 Minoshima et al. 2001 Schaffer et al. 2001 Streltsov Borrelli 2001 Zoubir et al. 2004 3D storages Glezer et al. 1996 optical gratings Ding et al. 2006 photonic crystals Zhou et al. 2004 and microfluidic channels Day Gu 2005 Hwang et al. 2004 Li et al. 2001 . In both silicone and non silicone based hydrogels our group has shown that femtosecond micromachining works by inducing a significant change in refractive index of the materials without visible plasma luminescence or bubble formation and without the generation of undesirable scattering or absorbing centers Ding et al. 2006 .

One of the most exciting uses of femtosecond lasers in biology was developed relatively recently and was instrumental in suggesting that femtosecond micromachining settings could be used non destructively in living biological tissues. The research groups of Karsten K nig and Alfred Vogel both in Germany have demonstrated that it is possible to perform nanosurgery in living cells with near infrared femtosecond lasers K nig et al. 2002 K nig Riemann Fischer Halbhuber 1999 K nig Riemann Fritzsche 2001 Tirlapur K nig 2002a Tirlapur K nig 2002b Vogel Linz Freidank Paltauf 2008 Vogel et al. 2005 . While most femtosecond laser nanosurgeries involve by definition some sort of disruption either affecting membranes organelles or other cellular components they can be performed with such precision and selectivity so as not to kill the cells Tirlapur K nig 2002a Tirlapur K nig 2002b Vogel et al. 2005 . This critical finding was a strong indication that femtosecond laser pulse energy repetition rate and pulse duration could all be manipulated to generate tissue changes on a scale that could range from cellular nanosurgery to laser refractive surgery but with less destruction than currently attained. This prompted us to perform the experiments that led to the development of IRIS as disclosed in the above cited parent application.

By adapting femtosecond micromachining approaches developed in hydrogels Ding et al. 2006 our group was the first to perform Intra tissue Refractive Index Shaping IRIS in biological tissues. To do this we first measured the optical breakdown thresholds of lightly fixed cat corneas and lenses. We then reduced femtosecond laser pulse energies below these optical breakdown thresholds to create grating patterns that are associated with a change in the refractive index of the tissue. Some of these results have been written up and currently in press at IOVS Ding Knox B hren Nagy Huxlin 2008 .

Choosing the right laser parameters is critical for achieving IRIS in biological tissues. Not only does the femtosecond laser fluence at the objective focus have to be below the optical breakdown threshold of the tissue it also had to be strong enough to induce some nonlinear changes and the scan speed must be set within a specified range. In the past two decades extensive experimental and theoretical work has been done to characterize laser induced optical breakdown thresholds in different materials including the cornea Docchio Sacchi Marshall 1986 Du Liu Korn Squier Mourou 1994 Giguere et al. 2007 Loesel et al. 1996 Stern Schoenlein Puliafito Dobi Birngruber Fujimoto 1989 Stuart Feit Rubenchik Shore Perry 1995 Tien Backus Kapteyn Murnane Mourou 1999 Vogel et al. 2005 and the lens Brazitikos D Amico Bochow Hmelar Marcellino Stangos 1998 Li Borkman 1990 Vogel Capon Asiyo Vogel Birngruber 1994 . However most of this work centered on the use of continuous wave CW lasers or on single pulses from low repetition rate lasers in which thermal diffusion time is much shorter than the time interval between adjacent pulses. Thus each pulse is responsible for a change in the material. Indeed it has been established that for pulses longer than 10 ps the optical breakdown threshold fluence scales as the square root of the pulse duration Du et al. 1994 . For pulses shorter than 10 ps but longer than about 100 fs which is the case with IRIS settings the experimental results show a departure from this dependence. However whether threshold fluence increases or decreases as pulse durations get shorter remains a challenging question Stern et al. 1989 Stuart et al. 1995 Tien et al. 1999 . Some models predict that the threshold would first increase then decrease when pulse duration becomes shorter than 100 fs but there is no solid experimental evidence to support this Tien et al. 1999 . More recently it has been claimed that for corneal stroma the breakdown threshold is almost plateau like when the pulse duration is between 100 fs and 1 ps with a rapid decrease in threshold for pulse durations in the low end of the femtosecond range Giguere et al. 2007 . However insufficient experimentation on cornea and lens using sub 100 fs pulses makes it difficult to support this prediction and furthermore existing data were collected using single pulses from low repetition rate lasers.

When high repetition rate femtosecond laser pulses are used cumulative free electron mediated chemical effects photochemical bond breaking and thermal effects contribute to the laser tissue interaction. As a result the breakdown threshold fluence may be quite different from that predicted by current models Vogel et al. 2005 . Several studies on the effects of high repetition rate femtosecond lasers on fused silica and borosilicate glass have found that laser pulses greatly increased the temperature of the materials at the laser focus Eaton Zhang Herman Yoshino Shah Bovatsek Arai 2005a . Vogel calculated the temperature change in water would be 10 K. with a 0.6 NA focusing lens and 100 fs laser pulses Vogel et al. 2005 assuming that with each pulse an energy density of 1 J cmat the center of the initial temperature distribution is deposited. Using very high repetition rate 93 MHz ultra short laser pulses 27 fs we found the optical breakdown threshold for the 0.70 NA focusing condition in lightly fixed corneal stroma and lens cortex to be 55 mW and 75 mW average laser power respectively Ding et al. 2008 . This corresponds to 0.6 nJ and 0.8 nJ pulse energies respectively both lower than the optical breakdown power reported by K nig and colleagues using 1 nJ pulse energy 170 fs pulse duration and 1.30 NA focusing in porcine corneas K nig et al. 2002 . By using 30 mW and 45 mW average laser power 0.3 nJ and 0.5 nJ pulses we were able to induce IRIS without accompanying photo disruption and tissue destruction.

Our preliminary experiments demonstrated for the first time that it is possible to cause low scattering loss refractive index modifications in lightly fixed cat cornea and lens using 93 MHz repetition rate 27 fs laser pulses with 0.3 nJ and 0.5 nJ pulse energies. These modifications were visible only using DIC microscopy and were not associated with apparent tissue damage. They represent refractive index changes between 0.005 0.001 and 0.021 0.001. Preservation of IRIS over a month of refrigerated storage suggested that the femtosecond laser induced modifications were likely to involve relatively long term molecular structural alterations. In related experiments involving silicone hydrogels the micromachined gratings and associated Raman spectra were observed to persist for up to one year even after drying and rehydration of the hydrogel Ding Cancado Novotny Knox Anderson Jani Blackwell K nzler Smith in preparation .

Although the refractive index changes induced in cornea and lens tissue to date have been relatively small their impact on optical power is still significant. Based on published values for the power 39D and native refractive index 1.376 of the cat cornea Hughes 1977 IRIS should generate a change in corneal power ranging between 0.14D and 0.56D assuming an index change between 0.005 and 0.02 . Similarly for the cat lens power 53D refractive index of the homogeneous lens 1.554 Hughes 1977 the refractive index changes induced by micromachining should theoretically alter lenticular power by between 0.5D and 0.7D.

Citations in the present disclosure are to the following references which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present disclosure 

It is a further object of the invention to implement such an improvement using two photon absorption TPA or more generally multi photon absorption.

More recent experiments using a process to chemically enhance the two photon absorption properties of both tissues resulted in at least a doubling of the refractive index changes and a several hundred fold increase in the micromachining speeds attained. The manipulations we have described could potentially be applied to multiple other biological tissues. However our wealth of expertise and data with respect to corneal and lens properties make ocular tissues the ideal system for a first pass investigation of IRIS in living tissues.

Ongoing experiments in our laboratories are generating information about the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying IRIS in the living cornea and allowing us to gain critical knowledge that can be used to further manipulate the size placement and design of micromachined patterns as well as the magnitude of the refractive index changes with which they are associated. The ability to alter the native refractive index of the cornea and lens without causing significant tissue damage has important theoretical and practical implications. By understanding how laser power can be used to alter tissues non destructively and by understanding the nature of these alterations we could open up an entirely new branch in the field of laser biology. Among other things this could completely change our approach to laser refractive surgery and to vision correction more generally. For instance the preservation of tissue clarity during the treatment allows the application of IRIS for the creation of corneal fiducial markings that could be used to align eye trackers during LASIK and for refractive corrections in a closed loop approach e.g. with specific benefit for the correction of higher order aberrations as well as for touch up corrections of ocular surface defects. More broadly the feasibility of IRIS in living tissues would offer new possibilities for non invasive alterations marking or pattern inscription within living organisms. From a theoretical stand point it also provides a unique opportunity to better understand and define the extent to which we can optically manipulate even large areas of living tissues without inducing a significant wound healing reaction.

The inventors have found that various ranges of parameters are particularly useful in implementing the present invention. In treatment of the eye the laser wavelength should be such that the tissues through which laser pulses pass are transparent to the pulses. There should also be no damage to the retina any change should be confined to the tissue located at the spot of focus of the pulses. Also for non destructive alteration of ocular tissue a COlaser or excimer laser should not be used since there should be no ablation or removal of the tissue.

A laser pulse frequency repetition rate of 93 MHz is useful for many applications. A preferable range is from 1 MHz to 10 GHz and more preferably from 10 to 500 MHz.

Linked to the pulse frequency is the average power. A preferable range is from 1 to 1 000 mW and more preferably 10 to 100 mW and more preferably still from 50 to 60 mW. The energy of each pulse should preferably be less than 1 nJ and more preferably less than 0.5 nJ although a range from 0.01 to 10 nJ and more preferably from 0.1 to 2 nJ can be used.

A laser pulse width of 30 fs is useful for many applications. A preferable range is from 5 fs to 1 ps and more preferably from 10 to 100 fs.

The scanning speed of the laser is preferably 0.4 m s although depending on the equipment ranges such as 0.1 m s to 10 mm s can be implemented.

The wavelength should as noted above be one to which the tissues through which the laser pulses must pass are transparent. It should also preferably be just barely within the visible range for the patient or outside of the visible range e.g. near infrared so as not to bother the patient. A wavelength of 800 nm is useful preferable ranges include 600 1 000 nm and more preferably 700 900 nm and above 1 000 nm.

The laser pulses are focused to a spot size that is preferably 1 m. Preferable ranges include 0.5 m to 2 10 or 50 m.

Various structures can be produced in the ocular tissue. Examples include high refractive index structures such as Bragg gratings microlens arrays optical zone plates and Fresnel lenses.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings.

Our preliminary experiments Ding Huxlin Knox 2007 Ding et al. 2008 Huxlin Ding Knox 2008 showed that it is possible to change the refractive index of the lightly fixed mammalian cornea and lens without tissue destruction a phenomenon we termed Intra tissue Refractive Index Shaping IRIS . To achieve this we first measured then reduced femtosecond laser pulse energies below the optical breakdown threshold of lightly fixed post mortem cat corneas and lenses. In both silicone and non silicone based hydrogels this approach induced a significant change in refractive index without visible plasma luminescence or bubble formation Ding et al. 2006 .

Eight corneas and eight lenses were extracted under surgical anesthesia from five normal adult domestic short hair cats . To avoid decomposition and opacification prior to femtosecond laser micromachining extracted feline tissues were immediately drop fixed for 10 minutes corneas or one hour lenses in a solution consisting of 1 paraformaldehyde in 0.1M phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4. Lenses were then cut into 500 m thick slices using a HM650V vibratome Microm International after which lens sections and whole corneas also 500 m thick were immersed in a mixture of 30 ethylene glycol 30 sucrose in 0.1M PBS pH7.4 at 4 C. Storage in this solution minimized tissue swelling and loss of transparency. Small pieces of tissue 1 cmwere then flattened onto a clear glass slide 1 3 inches 1 mm thick Surgipath Medical Industries Inc. IL . In the case of corneal pieces this was done with the epithelium facing up and the endothelium facing down. A glass coverslip Corning No. 0211 Zinc Titania glass was placed on the top of each piece stabilizing it for the duration of the experiment. The ethylene glycol sucrose storage solution was used as mounting medium to minimize dehydration of the cornea and lens tissue samples since these effects are known to alter the refractive index and transparency of both these tissues Fisher Masiello Goldstein Hahn 2003 Meek Dennis Khan 2003 Patel Alio Perez Santonja 2004 .

Femtosecond laser micro machining was conducted as previously described in hydrogels Ding et al. 2006 . The laser source was a Kerr lens mode locked Ti Sapphire laser K M Labs . The laser oscillator generated pulses averaging 300 mW 27 fs in duration with a 93 MHz repetition rate at 800 nm wavelength. A continuously variable metallic neutral density filter inserted into the optical path was used to adjust the incident laser power onto each cat cornea and lens piece. Pulses were focused 100 m below the tissue surface using a 60 0.70 NA Olympus LUCPlanFLN microscope objective with an adjustable working distance of 1.5 2.2 mm. Because the large amount of glass within the microscope objective induced significant chromatic dispersion into the femtosecond laser pulses broadening the pulse durations a standard extra cavity prism double pass configuration was used to compensate for the dispersion and maintain the ultra short pulse duration. By carefully adjusting this dispersion compensator we obtained nearly transform limited 27 fs duration pulses at the focal point of the focusing objective as measured by a collinear auto correlator using 3rd order surface harmonic generation Meschulach Barad Silberberg 2003 Squier Fittinghoff Barty Wilson Muller Brakenhoff 1998 . During IRIS the slide containing the biological tissue samples was mounted on a 3D scanning platform consisting of a Physik Instrumente P 622.2CD XY scanning stage with 250 m travel range and 0.7 nm close loop resolution and a Newport VP 25XA linear servo Z axis scanning stage with 25 mm travel range and 100 nm resolution. An infrared CCD camera was used to monitor the micromachining process and the generation of visible plasma luminescence in real time.

Our first step was to establish thresholds for the optical breakdown of lightly fixed feline cornea and lens. The neutral density filter was first adjusted to minimize the focused incident laser power on the cornea and the lens below their breakdown thresholds Giguere et al. 2007 Loesel et al. 1996 . Adjusting the neutral density filter then progressively increased the incident laser power. The breakdown threshold power was reached when visible plasma luminescence suddenly appeared and strong scattering light as well as laser induced damage became visible . With our 0.70 NA long working distance objective the measured breakdown thresholds for cat cornea and lens were 55 mW and 75 mW average laser power respectively which corresponds to pulse energies of 0.6 nJ and 0.8 nJ.

Once tissue breakdown thresholds were established the focused laser power was lowered gradually by carefully adjusting the neutral density filter until lines could be micromachined without the induction of bubbles or burns . Average laser power settings at which this could be done were 30 mW in the cornea and 45 mW in the lens corresponding to pulse energies of about 0.3 nJ and 0.5 nJ respectively. These values lay between those used for imaging and our measured breakdown thresholds. The gratings were micromachined in the horizontal plane within the stromal layer of each corneal piece and the cortex of each lens at a constant speed of 0.7 m s for the cornea and 1 m s for the lens. The spherical aberration at the laser focus induced by refractive index mismatch was compensated by adjusting the correction collar of the focusing microscope objective in order to achieve the smallest possible laser affected region along the laser propagation direction Ding et al. 2006 .

Exposure of lightly fixed cat corneal and lenticular tissue to 0.3 nJ or 0.5 nJ femtosecond laser pulses 28 mW or 47 mW average laser power respectively resulted in the reliable creation of line gratings about 100 m below the epithelial surface or 100 m below the lens surface in all test samples . When imaged immediately after micromachining individual grating lines could be clearly observed and distinguished with differential interference contrast DIC microscopy but they were practically invisible when viewed under bright field BF transmission microscopy BF images in . This could be interpreted as the grating lines having very low scattering properties which is in contrast to the destructive tissue changes observed with laser pulse energies above the optical breakdown threshold of the tissues . Using the knife edge method Smith 2000 we ascertained that the laser focus diameter was 2.5 m in air which was much bigger than the micromachined line widths. Thus it appears that only the central part of the laser focal area had sufficient intensity to modify corneal and lens tissues.

To assess whether the gratings generated in corneal and lens pieces were associated with a change in refractive index the slides containing the tissue were first placed under an Olympus BX51 optical microscope where gratings were localized using DIC imaging. A low power 632.8 nm He Ne laser was then used to irradiate the gratings generating a diffraction pattern that was captured by a digital camera and used to calculate the refractive index changes attained as described previously Ding et al. 2006 .

In brief a power meter measured the intensity of the 0 3order diffracted light from the gratings and the different order diffraction efficiencies were obtained by calculating the ratios between the intensity of the 1 2and 3to the 0order diffraction light. Since the intensity distribution of the diffraction pattern of a phase grating is proportional to the square value of the Fourier Transform of the transmittance function of the grating Born Wolf 1970 one particular value of refractive index change matches only one particular diffraction efficiency value Ding et al. 2006 . To reduce measurement error of the diffraction order intensities we collected five measurements on each grating calculating the average value obtained and its standard deviation. In principle the spatial distribution of the refractive index change within the micromachined region was a small scale gradient index structure. However for the purpose of the present investigation we presumed the index profile to be uniform within the grating lines which were only 3 m deep because the spherical aberration at the focal point was corrected Ding et al. 2006 .

Because displacement of the stromal collagen lamellae as a result of post mortem corneal swelling could not be completely avoided the scattering effect from the 0order diffraction light was very strong obscuring the 1order diffraction light Meek et al. 2003 . Thus only the 2and 3order diffraction efficiencies of each grating could be measured and used to calculate an approximate refractive index change in corneal pieces . Because tissue swelling and opacification were minimal in slices of lens cortex the 0through 3order diffraction light could be measured clearly and 1and 2order diffraction efficiencies were used to calculate the induced refractive index change. Although single diffraction efficiency is usually sufficient to calculate refractive index here we measured 1 2or 2 3combinations to confirm that the index changes calculated were consistent through different diffraction orders assuming that the refractive index of cat corneal stroma and lens cortex were 1.376 and 1.400 respectively Hughes 1977 . For corneal stroma the index changes induced by the laser in our multiple samples ranged between 0.0050.001 and 0.01 0.001 . For cat lens cortex index changes were larger ranging between 0.015 0.001 and 0.021 0.001.

After micromachining each cornea and lens piece was stored in the ethylene glycol sucrose solution at 4 C. After one month each piece was re mounted onto a new glass slide for imaging and a repeat of the diffraction light intensity measurements. This allowed us to assess whether the RI change initially observed had been maintained during storage. Our first observation was that although the storage solution significantly slowed corneal swelling and opacification it did not completely prevent either. In spite of this DIC microscopy was able to reveal the grating structures initially micromachined .

For both corneal and lens slices the diffraction light distribution of one month old gratings was not significantly different than that obtained right after the gratings creation . In the corneal pieces the scattering light from the 0order diffraction still obscured the order diffraction. However the 2 3 and even 4order diffractions were visible and measurable. In the lens pieces the 1 2and 3order diffraction were visible. The refractive index change after one month of storage still ranged between 0.005 0.001 and 0.01 0.001 for corneal pieces and between 0.015 0.001 and 0.021 0.001 for lens slices.

Potentiating IRIS by increasing two photon absorption TPA or other multi photon absorption of the cornea and lens will now be disclosed. In our early work with native hydrogels femtosecond micromachining caused index changes in the range of 0.02 to 0.06 with very slow scanning speeds as slow as 0.4 microns per second Ding et al. 2006 . The index changes attained in the cat cornea were small 0.005 0.01 and background scattering made the features difficult to detect. We wrote larger index changes in 500 m thick slices of cat lens 0.015 0.021 but all at very low scanning speeds 0.7 to 1 m s . Such slow scanning speeds severely limit the applicability of the IRIS technique since the writing of any 3D feature within biological materials would take a prohibitively long time under these conditions.

The major reason why writing speeds need to be so slow in the cornea and the lens is that these clear biological tissues possess natively low two photon absorption TPA properties. Thus we hypothesized that if the TPA of cornea and lens could be increased through the incorporation of a two photon absorbing chromophore this should theoretically increase the rate and magnitude of IRIS in these tissues. Sodium Fluorescein is one such chromophore which is already commonly used in ophthalmic and medical practice. It is non toxic to the living eye and can even be injected intravenously e.g. for retinal angiography . To test our hypothesis we incubated lightly fixed cornea and lens pieces in a 25 solution of Sodium Fluorescein in ethylene glycol sucrose PBS overnight. Both tissue types readily absorbed the chromophore and turned slightly orange. They were then rinsed and IRIS was performed as described above. In Fluorescein treated cat corneas scanning speeds of 1 mm s 1 400 faster than in non treated corneas were attained and used to create multiple lines that were several mm long and whose refractive index change averaged 0.02 up to 4 larger than in non treated corneas . Just as in the non fluorescein treated corneas these features were long lived lasting through several months of refrigerated storage. is a phase contrast image showing the refractive index change lines in a cornea doped with 25 sodium fluorescein after micromachining with a scanning speed of 1 mm s an average power of 120 mW a depth below the surface of 120 m and a laser wavelength of 800 nm. is a phase contrast image showing the refractive index change lines in an intraocular lens doped with 25 sodium fluorescein after micromachining with a scanning speed of 1 mm s an average power of 100 mW a depth below the surface of 120 m and a laser wavelength of 800 nm. is a phase contrast image showing a 300 m wide band micromachined in a doped cat cornea 100 m below the surface using 20 fs laser pulses a scanning speed of 1 mm s an average power of 120 mW and a laser wavelength of 800 nm. The image in was taken right after micromachining. is an image taken after the fluorescein has been rinsed off.

Femtosecond laser treatment is performed under surgical or topical anesthesia as previously described for conventional laser refractive surgery B hren Yoon Kenner MacRae Huxlin 2007b Nagy et al. 2007 . The subjects are placed into a specially designed head mount which will hold them in a supine position with the eyes facing directly upwards. A drop of 0.5 Proparacaine Hydrochloride or other ophthalmic anesthetic agent will be placed in the eye to be treated. One to two drops of 20 NaFluorescein in a 10 solution of dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO in Celluvisc will also be administered to each eye to be treated in order to increase the two photon absorption rate of the cornea. Our pilot experiments show that 10 minutes is sufficient to allow penetration of the fluorescein chromophore through the entire thickness of the cornea see . Lower and higher concentrations of Na Fluorescein also work but the amount of time required for penetration increases at lower concentrations. The corneal surface can then be kept moist with the application of saline or ophthalmic moistening agents. Once corneal reflexes have disappeared the subject can then undergo IRIS treatment over a circular or otherwise shaped area 6 mm or other dimensions as required in diameter in the center or other location of its cornea at a depth of 100 m or other depths below or within the surface epithelium. Other positional parameters can be used if needed. The eye can be kept immobile during the laser treatment by a fixation target or by conjunctival structures which will be removed at the end of the operation. An infrared CCD camera is used to monitor the micromachining process and the generation of visible plasma luminescence in real time. The treatment should take about 5 10 minutes per eye after which the subject will be recovered as clinically prescribed.

A similar protocol with the major difference being that the Na Fluorescein solution might have to be injected into the anterior chamber of the eye could be used to enhance TPA in the living lens. IRIS could be performed in the lens by simply using a longer working distance focusing objective to focus the femtosecond laser beam into the lens in situ.

In order to assess whether chemical fixation of the cornea with paraformaldehyde was critical to attaining IRIS in the cornea we recently performed IRIS on a non fixed fresh post mortem cat cornea immediately after enucleation. Several small gratings were inscribed one above the other in the corneal stroma and they were imaging with optical coherence tomography OCT . The reason we stacked several gratings together was in order to make sure that our OCT with its resolution of 10 m could actually resolve these features given that individual IRIS lines were only 1 3 m thick. We reported on the results of this experiment at the recent ARVO meeting Huxlin et al. 2008 and are providing some pictures in . Thus while fixation may influence the magnitude of RI change attained IRIS does not actually require it.

IRIS does not change the Raman spectrum of hydrogels changes in refractive index not material composition or chemistry. Balafilcon A hydrogel polymer Bausch Lomb USA was used for this experiment whose goal to was to gain insight into the mechanisms by which femtosecond micromachining achieved its refractive index change in hydrated optically clear but non biological materials. The chemical components of the hydrogel used Balafilicon A included tris trimethylsiloxy silyl propylvinyl carbamate TPVC N vinyl pyrrolidone NVP and other types of silicones Karlgard Sarkar Jones Moresoli Leung 2004 . Balafilicon A contains 36 water by weight and has an average refractive index of 1.4220 Ding et al. 2006 . The cutoff wavelength of its transmission spectra are within the range of 300 to 350 nm and its transmissivity at 800 nm is 83 Ding et al. 2006 . A Kerr lens mode locked Ti Sapphire femtosecond laser oscillator K M Labs generating pulses of 300 mW average power 27 fs pulsewidth and 93 MHz repetition rate at 800 nm was focused into the hydrogels using a 60 0.70 NA Olympus LUCPlanFLN long working distance objective. Throughout the whole experimental process the hydrogel samples were mounted in a Borate Buffered Saline BBS solution between two cover glass slides and maintained their water content. A 3D scanning platform formed by three Newport VP 25XA linear servo stages with 100 nm resolution was employed to move the hydrogel samples transversely to the direction of the laser beam. Smooth lines 40 m long were inscribed just below the hydrogel surface using 1.3 nJ pulse energies which were below the optical breakdown threshold of the material. These low pulse energies created a 0.06 refractive index change along the lines. Using the same knife edge method reported previously Ding et al. 2006 we measured a laser focal diameter of about 2.5 m. This focal diameter gave rise to laser irradiated lines about 1 m wide and 3 m deep.

In order to check for structural modifications in the machined region several Raman spectra were measured in 400 nm steps both within and next to the micromachined lines using a 3 mW 632.8 nm HeNe laser. In both spectra several Raman peaks were detected over the broad background fluorescence B . Differences in the background fluorescence of the two spectra were first measured since some of the defects generated by MHz femtosecond laser pulses are known to increase fluorescence intensity in fused silica Reichman Krol Shah Yoshino Arai Eaton Herman 2006 . Here however no. significant changes in background fluorescence were detected. The Raman signal was then calculated by subtracting the background fluorescence from the original spectrum D . The Raman peaks could be assigned to different material bonds activities see but most importantly the Raman spectra obtained from the machined region were almost identical to the Raman spectra obtained from the untreated regions of hydrogel suggesting that the micromachining process did not induce significant structural and chemical changes in the hydrogel polymer.

As illustrated in the process we propose would include the following steps 1 using a wavefront sensor to detect and measure the lower and higher order aberrations along the optical path of a given eye 2 calculating the topography and magnitude of refractive index changes required to achieve the necessary aberration correction 3 focusing the femtosecond laser pulses either into the cornea or intraocular lens in order to carry out the micromachining necessary to induce the required refractive index change. Once the micromachining is complete the wavefront sensor would be used once again to check the correction of the ocular wavefront. Since the resolution of the femtosecond laser micromachining is about 1 m this noninvasive method could be used as a complement or an alternative method for current customized wavefront correction methods.

In the shutter is closed for detection of wavefront aberration from the optical path through the wavefront sensor using aberrated light A reflected from the retina R of the eye E. In the shutter is open and light pulses P from the femtosecond laser are used to correct the aberration by locally changing the index in the cornea C or the lens L. In after femtosecond laser micromachining the wavefront correction is verified once again using the wavefront sensor.

While a preferred embodiment has been set forth in detail above those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the invention. For example numerical values are illustrative rather than limiting as are recitations of specific equipment and sources. Also while the preferred embodiment has been disclosed in terms of two photon absorption the invention can be implemented through absorption of three or more photons. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

