---

title: Apparatus to control a linearly decreasing force
abstract: An apparatus provides a linearly decreasing force. The apparatus includes a plurality of links, which can be referred to as swing, seat, fixed, and input/output links. A spring is coupled to each of the seat links, and a rod is positioned in proximity to each spring and through each of the seat links. A load applied to the input/output link will experience a linearly decreasing resistance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08042403&OS=08042403&RS=08042403
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08042403
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081007
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under contract number F34601 02 C 0090 with the Department of the Air Force. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to force control mechanisms and in an embodiment but not by way of limitation a mechanism to control a linearly decreasing force.

In the testing of certain devices and apparatuses the test requires the application or provision of a linearly increasing force. In many of these circumstances a simple compression coil spring or a spring loaded test device can be used to provide such a linearly increasing force. However in other situations such as in the testing of pyro cartridges or the matching of an aerodynamic loading condition testing requires a linearly decreasing force. Such a linearly decreasing force cannot be provided by a simple spring. The art is therefore in need of a test apparatus that can supply a linearly decreasing force.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that the various embodiments of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example a particular feature structure or characteristic described herein in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from the scope of the invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims appropriately interpreted along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout the several views.

The swing links spring seat links fixed link and input output link when a force F is applied to the input output link of the apparatus via the load bearing assembly as illustrated in change angle magnitude and therefore vary mechanical leverage as the apparatus moves through its range of motion. For example at rest the swing link forms an angle A with a line bisecting the apparatus through its input output link . After application of a force F the link system causes the angle formed by the swing link and the bisecting line to increase in magnitude to angle B. While the force F increases as the spring compresses the force F linearly decreases. The selection of link length spring rate spring preload and initial and final angles are determined from the input forces and range of travel required. A resulting resistant force curve is illustrated in . illustrates the linearly decreasing force F and the linearly increasing force F.

In the foregoing detailed description of embodiments of the invention various features are grouped together in one or more embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description of embodiments of the invention with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. It is understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. It is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

