---

title: Access provisioning via communication applications
abstract: Described herein is technology for, among other things, provisioning access to shared resources. It involves various techniques for creating accounts for recipients of communications with shared resources. Further, the resources may available by an easy to find permanent location (e.g., URL). Such a provisioning process facilitates the growth of the network as recipients are given fully featured accounts. Therefore, the technology avoids the sign up process that users would otherwise have to go through in order to access the shared resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104846&OS=09104846&RS=09104846
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09104846
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080205
---
The widespread use and increasing development of the internet has allowed exchanges of information in ways previously not possible. Correspondingly computer users are sharing information facilitated by technology advances such as digital cameras. For example a user may upload pictures taken with a digital camera to a photo sharing website in order to share the photos with others.

Typically users are required to sign up and create an account on the system hosting the shared resource. The sign up process often contains numerous forms or pages which the user must complete and quickly becomes laborious. Further any errors in data entry can require user correction and lengthen the sign up process.

Other conventional solutions for restricting access to resources have significant disadvantages. One such solution is to provide a unique location e.g. URL or temporary account. A user wishing to access the resource is required to have the unique location or temporary account information. When the unique location is contained in an email the email may be deleted or lost among a large group of emails resulting in the user being unable to access the resource. Similarly a temporary account may expire and leave the user with no access to the resource.

Thus what is needed is a way to provide access to restricted resources without requiring a laborious signup process unique location or temporary account.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Described herein is technology for among other things provisioning access to shared resources. It involves various techniques for creating accounts for recipients of communications with shared resources. Further the resources may be available by an easy to find permanent location e.g. URL . Such a provisioning process facilitates the growth of the network as recipients are given fully featured accounts. Therefore the technology avoids the sign up process that users would otherwise have to go through in order to access the shared resource.

In one implementation a method for provisioning access may be used to create accounts based on a communication referencing a shared resource. The recipients of the communication may be checked to see if each recipient has an account for accessing a shared resource. Accounts may then be generated for those recipients without accounts. The communication to those recipients may then be modified to include information corresponding to the newly created account. Thus the recipients are able to securely access the shared resource without having to go through a formal signup process.

Techniques described herein provide a way for the adding of users to a network or service without an involved signup process. Thus users are able easily share and access resources in a more efficient manner.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the claimed subject matter examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to these embodiments. On the contrary the claimed subject matter is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter as defined by the claims. Furthermore in the detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of procedures logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer or digital system memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure logic block process etc. is herein and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these physical manipulations take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system or similar electronic computing device. For reasons of convenience and with reference to common usage these signals are referred to as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like with reference to the claimed subject matter.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these terms are to be interpreted as referencing physical manipulations and quantities and are merely convenient labels and are to be interpreted further in view of terms commonly used in the art. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is understood that throughout discussions of the present embodiment discussions utilizing terms such as determining or outputting or transmitting or recording or locating or storing or displaying or receiving or recognizing or utilizing or generating or providing or accessing or checking or notifying or delivering or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data. The data is represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories and is transformed into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Described herein is technology for among other things provisioning access to shared resources. It involves various techniques for creating accounts for recipients of communications with shared resources. Further the resources may be made available by an easy to find permanent location e.g. URL . Such a provisioning process facilitates the growth of the network as recipients are given fully featured accounts. Therefore the technology avoids the sign up process that users would otherwise have to go through in order to access the shared resource.

In one implementation a method for provisioning access may be used to create accounts based on a communication referencing a shared resource. The recipients of the communication may be checked to see if each recipient has an account for accessing a shared resource. Accounts may then be generated for those recipients without accounts. The communication to those recipients may then be modified to include information corresponding to the newly created account. Thus the recipients are able to securely access the shared resource without having to go through a formal signup process.

Techniques described herein provide a way for the adding of users to a network or service without an involved signup process. Thus users are able easily share and access resources in a more efficient manner.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing embodiments includes a general purpose computing system environment such as computing system environment . Computing system environment may include but is not limited to desktop computers laptops tablet PCs mobile devices and smartphones. In its most basic configuration computing system environment typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing system environment memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

System memory may include among other things Operating System OS application s and communication application . Communication application may facilitate communication between users e.g. sending email instant messages and the like which can include communications referencing shared resources. Communications application may further include access provisioner . Access provisioner facilitates the provisioning of access to recipients of communications without accounts to access a shared resource. For example users without accounts on a system or network hosting photographs may have accounts generated based on an email referencing the photos.

Additionally computing system environment may also have additional features functionality. For example computing system environment may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and nonremovable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system environment . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing system environment .

Computing system environment may also contain communications connection s that allow it to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Communications connection s may allow computing system environment to communication over various networks types including but not limited to Bluetooth Ethernet Wi fi Infrared Data Association IrDA Local area networks LAN Wireless Local area networks WLAN wide area networks WAN such as the internet serial and universal serial bus USB . It is appreciated the various network types that communication connection s connect to may run a plurality of network protocols including but not limited to transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP real time transport protocol RTP real time transport control protocol RTCP file transfer protocol FTP and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP .

Computing system environment may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device remote control etc. Output device s such as a display speakers etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The following discussion sets forth details of the present technology systems for network communication management. illustrates example components used by various embodiments of the present technology. System includes components or modules that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. The computer readable and computer executable instructions reside for example in data storage features such as computer usable memory removable storage and or non removable storage of . The computer readable and computer executable instructions are used to control or operate in conjunction with for example processing unit of . It should be appreciated that the aforementioned components of system can be implemented in hardware or software or in a combination of both. Although specific components are disclosed in system such components are examples. That is embodiments are well suited to having various other components or variations of the components recited in system . It is appreciated that the components in system may operate with other components than those presented and that not all of the components of system may be required to achieve the goals of system .

Communication interface module facilitates the initiation of a variety of communications including those related to shared resources and to network services e.g. email systems social networks and the like . For example communication interface module may facilitate sending emails blog entries social network communications and the like via a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may be a web based interface e.g. operable to be access via a web browser or a local application e.g. email program personal information manager PIM or the like .

Communication manager receives and sends communications including those related to shared resources. Communication manager may alter communications for recipients without accounts for accessing the shared resources. Communication manager may receive and send a variety of communications including but not limited to emails instant messages web log blog entries and social network communications. The shared resources may be a variety of resources including network shares internet resources e.g. accessible via a web browser and the like. For example communication manager may receive an email to be sent to a group of friends including a link to a photo album. The email may include an initial or temporary password to be used for accessing the photo album.

Communication manager may include recipient analyzer which analyzes the recipients to determine whether the recipient has an account for accessing the shared resource. Referring to the above example an email message is sent the recipient list e.g. To line of an email or address is checked for existing accounts on the system.

Account manager manages accounts for accessing shared resources. Account manager may create accounts for recipients without accounts for accessing the shared resource. In one embodiment account manager automatically creates authentication accounts using the email addresses of recipients as usernames. The accounts created may be fully featured accounts and able to access other services available to users who have completed a sign up process in addition to the shared resource referenced in the communication.

Account manager may include access manager for managing passwords. Access manager may receive the initial password provided within a communication or separately and set the password for the corresponding account. Access manager may further invoke a prompt for changing the initial password upon a request to access the shared resource via a newly created account.

Referring back to communication manager communication manager may further include message modifier . Based on the analysis by recipient analyzer message modifier alters the communications to include account access information e.g. login and password corresponding to those recipients without accounts. For example an email may be altered to include a link with login information or login information in plain text e.g. username XYZ password pwd .

After receiving the modified communication the recipient or user may then login with the username e.g. email address and temporary password within the modified communication. In one embodiment the user will then be prompted to change the temporary password to one of his her choosing. The user may then be granted access to the shared resource e.g. photos and optionally informed that their account is a fully featured account able to access the entire suite of services available via the system or network. For example the user may be able to access more than just photo resources e.g. albums including blogs social networks and communicate via the network e.g. with the user sharing the content . For example when a user accesses a group of photos he she can be informed that the owner of the photos is online and can be instant messaged.

The following discussion sets forth in detail the operations of the present technology for network communication management. With reference to flowcharts and each illustrate example blocks used by various embodiments of the present technology. Flowcharts and include processes that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. The computer readable and computer executable instructions reside for example in data storage features such as computer usable memory removable storage and or non removable storage of . The computer readable and computer executable instructions are used to control or operate in conjunction with for example processing unit of . Although specific blocks are disclosed in flowcharts and such blocks are examples. That is embodiments are well suited to performing various other blocks or variations of the blocks recited in flowcharts and . It is appreciated that the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed.

At block a communication is received. The communication can include a plurality of recipients and a shared resource to be accessed by the recipients. It is appreciated that a communication can include one or more recipients. For example an email may be received which includes a To line with multiple email addresses or recipients and a link to a photo album hosted on a photo sharing service to accessed by the recipients. The communication may also include an initial or temporary password to be used for accessing the shared resource by recipients who do not currently have accounts with the service or system providing access to the shared resource.

At block whether each of the recipients has an account for accessing the shared resource is verified. For example the verification may be based on the domain of an email address e.g. xyz.com .

At block the communication is flagged. The communication may be flagged when at least one of the plurality of recipients is without or does not have a corresponding account for accessing the shared resource.

At block accounts are generated for recipients without accounts for accessing the shared resource. The username of the accounts can be generated based on an email address e.g. the username is set to the email address or the portion of the email address before the sign . The password of the newly created accounts may be set to the initial temporary password included in the communication. The accounts generated may be fully featured accounts which allow a user access across the suite of services provided by the system with the shared resource. Advantageously advertisements may be targeted toward the accounts generated based on the shared resources accessed with the account. This allows a more relevant and engaging experience for the user without the need for a laborious sign up process.

It is appreciated new accounts can also be created from partners or other sources e.g. other networks or service providers . It is further appreciated that the communication may also be used to determine who has accessed the shared resource. For example if a content owner sends a communication to close friends the shared resource may be made accessible only to them.

At block the communication corresponding to the recipients without an account for accessing the shared resource is modified. The communication is modified to include information for accessing the shared resource. For example the communication may be modified to include the username of the newly created account and the initial password set on the new account. The communication for recipients previously had accounts may be modified to remove the initial password.

At block the communication is sent to the recipients. Recipients may then use the communication e.g. a link within the communication to initiate access to the shared resource.

At block a recipient requesting access to the shared resource is prompted to change the initial password. For example the recipients accessing newly created accounts may be prompted to change the initial password for security purposes.

Graphical user interface facilitates a user selecting one or more recipients or addresses e.g. email addresses via recipients field to receive the communication. While composing the communication the user may select a resource e.g. photos or videos on a network share or website to share with the recipients via shared resource field . The user may further select an initial or temporary password to be used to access the shared resource for users who do not currently have an account on the system or site hosting the shared resource via initial password field . The user may also further add content related to the communication via content field e.g. a title of New Years Photos .

It is appreciated the exemplary graphical user interface may not display all fields and labels until certain fields are set. For example the initial password field may displayed after a user has selected a selected resource in shared resource field . As another example initial password field may be displayed as soon as a user has selected a shared resource and enters a recipient who does not currently have an account for accessing the shared resource in recipients field .

At block one or more addressees is received. The addressees may be selected from a contacts list or typed in by a user. The addresses or recipients may be entered into a recipients field e.g. a To line of an email application or recipient field .

At block a selection of a resource to be accessed by the one or more addressees is received. A resource may be a service of a network or system e.g. email system photo sharing network or a shared resource e.g. photo album as described herein. The resource may further be a variety of information or data including but not limited to photos videos and documents. The selection of a resource may be used to invite another to the network or system.

At block whether the addressees have accounts for accessing the resource is checked. The addresses may be checked dynamically as the addressees are received or selected. For example as a user selects or enters each addressee the addressee is checked and those addressees without accounts may be visually flagged e.g. a red underline or marked.

At block a prompt for an initial password for access to the resource is presented. The initial password can be used for addressees without an account to access the selected resource. For example upon an addressee being entered who does not have an account the user may be prompted for an initial password.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

