---

title: Folding frame motorized prone cart
abstract: A prone cart for carrying a patient has a frame, a pair of independently powered and suspended drive wheels located centrally off the frame and an articuable body support having relatively moveable tray, chest support, abdominal support and leg support sections connected end to end for carrying a patient prone between a lowered position where the patient lies in a horizontal orientation to a raised position where the patient's head and chest are elevated with respect to the patient's abdomen and legs. Linkage mechanisms move the sections between the raised and lowered positions. A pair of independently suspended drive wheels mounted centrally of the frame is controllable so that each may each rotate independently in clockwise or counterclockwise sense so that the cart may be maneuvered in confined spaces with a zero turning radius.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690057&OS=07690057&RS=07690057
owner: University of South Florida
number: 07690057
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080605
---
This application is based upon Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 933 903 filed Jun. 8 2007 the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with the support of the Department of Veterans Affairs Government of the United States under a merit review grant to the Milwaukee and Tampa Veterans Affairs Medical Centers. The Government retains certain rights in the invention.

The invention is directed to a folding motorized prone cart and particularly to a prone cart having a folding frame or patient support capable of supporting and positioning the patient in a variety of positions for maximizing patient comfort and avoiding pressure ulcers and fatigue.

Prone carts are used to provide mobility and a more independent life style to individuals bedridden for weeks or months during the healing process of pressure ulcers typically located in the sacral ischial or other areas of the body that preclude their use of a wheelchair for mobility. In such cases the patients must lie in bed on a pressure reducing surface and be turned from side to side periodically. To get out of bed yet avoid putting pressure on their ischial or sacral surfaces they need to lie face down and on their stomach in bed to avoid putting pressure on the areas adversely affected by the pressure ulcers or infection resulting therefrom.

It is therefore necessary to improve patient comfort and mobility with a prone cart that will support properly the patient and allow him her to look around and have some permissible level of mobility in its surroundings.

Prone carts for carrying patients who have disabilities and or are paralyzed take the form of wagon like devices which allow the patient to lie on a body support or patient support in an horizontal reclined or prone position while being moved from place to place. Some carts are propelled manually by the patient while others may be powered and have a control for the patient to steer and maneuver the cart independently.

Prone carts tend to be relatively long because they carry a body support or patient support disposed horizontally. In order to accommodate patients of differing height the patient support or body support is at least 180 cm long six feet . When the body support is mounted on a wheeled frame the length of the cart can exceed 180 cm six feet in length and is often as wide as or wider than a standard wheelchair. Accordingly prone carts are difficult to maneuver and turn in tight spaces.

Steerable self powered prone carts are driven from front by direct arm movement. These carts allow the patient to move around the hospital or home environment but with difficulty because the cart has a large turning radius.

On some self powered prone carts the patient lies prone on a moveable body support which may pivot about a central horizontal axis such that the front of the body support may be elevated at an angle relative to the horizontal. Such an arrangement allows the patient to better visualize the environment see ahead of the cart so that the patient can properly steer and direct the motion of the cart and interact with other persons.

One such cart has a one piece body support that pivots like a seesaw so that the patient can elevate his or her head to a more comfortable position. However the one piece body support does not tilt enough to allow the patient to recline with his or her head elevated sufficiently to be comfortable for an extended period of time. Also because the body support is one piece the patient is essentially supported by the same part of the body all the time which can result in discomfort and fatigue and even the possible development of pressure ulcers elsewhere on the body.

Known prone carts do not have any place to conveniently store personal items or to allow the patient to write or read while in the prone position.

It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a prone cart which overcomes the shortcomings of the described prior arrangements.

It is yet another object of the invention to provide a prone cart with an articulated body support which will allow the patient to position his or her body with the head comfortably elevated so that the patient can easily see ahead of the cart and so that the patient can interact with ambulatory persons without strain on the neck. The articulated body support will also allow the patient to be supported at the knees in a more natural position aiding comfort during extended periods of use.

The invention also allows the patient to reposition him or her self during the day to reduce fatigue and discomfort from single or fixed body support devices.

The prone cart of the invention provides a tray or work area where personal items may be stored and the body support may be moved without the items falling off.

The invention employs central drive wheels to power the prone cart for minimizing turning radius. In an exemplary embodiment the turning radius is half of that required for a cart powered from the front or rear. In addition the patient support is articulated so that overhang of the head and feet is reduced as the support is raised to the elevated position. This further reduces turning clearances and minimizes the turning radius in tight corridors or small bedrooms.

The prone cart of the invention comprises a frame having front and rear unpowered wheels rotatable about a vertical axis and a pair of independently powered drive wheels located centrally of the frame between the unpowered wheels. The powered wheels are controllable so that each may rotate independently in clockwise or counterclockwise sense so that the cart may be maneuvered in confined spaces. In a particular embodiment the drive wheels are positioned centrally of the cart and the cart may be rotated 360 degrees in the horizontal about a central vertical axis.

The cart has a central axis running front to rear and a lateral transverse axis running side to side. A body support is mounted on a central pivot or support aligned with the lateral axis. The body support includes a tray a chest or thoracic support an abdominal support and a leg support connected end to end. The chest support has a first end and a second end the first end being pivotally connected to the main support for rotation between a generally horizontal lowered position and an inclined or elevated position. A single lift motor or actuator connected between the frame and the chest support drives the chest support between the lowered and inclined positions. The abdominal support has a first and second end the first end being pivotally connected to the main support member for rotation between a generally horizontal upper position corresponding to the lower position of the chest support and an inclined or lowered position. The leg support has a first end and a second end the first end being rotatably connected to the second end of the abdominal support. A first mechanism connects the chest support and the leg support and a second mechanism connects the tray to the abdominal support. The single lift motor simultaneously raises the chest support and lowers the leg support through the first mechanism and the second mechanism raises the tray and simultaneously lowers the chest support as the chest support is raised.

The tray support section has a front end F and a rear end R the chest support section has a front end F pivotally connected to the rear end R of the tray section and a rear end R. The abdominal support section has a front end F pivotally connected to the rear end R of the chest support and a rear end R. Leg support section has a front end F pivotally connected to the rear end R of the chest support and a rear end R. The foot support has a front end F telescopically coupled to the rear end R of the leg support section and a free rear end R.

In the patient not shown lies fully flat and in the patient not shown is supported so that the head and chest are raised and the abdomen and legs of the patient are lowered thereby allowing the patient to be more comfortably positioned when the cart is maneuvered about. It should be understood as hereinafter described that the patient may adjust the position of the body support between the fully prone position and the elevated position as desired. It should be understood that in the prone position the body support is generally horizontal. In the elevated position the tray section and chest support section are elevated above the horizontal and the abdominal support section and leg support section are lowered relative to the horizontal.

The chest support section the abdominal support section and the leg support section each have a corresponding safety belt and for safely securing the patient to the body support.

The cart has a frame carried by front and rear wheels and positioned respectively at the corresponding front corners and rear corners thereof. The wheels and are mounted for rotation about a respective corresponding horizontal axis and for forward and rearward motion and the wheels are each attached to the frame about a corresponding vertical axis allowing the wheels to swivel thereabout for turning the cart.

The frame includes side members and cross members joining the side members in parallel alignment as shown. As discussed hereinafter various components of the body support and various mechanical components are carried by the frame. For example the body support is pivotally secured to the frame by a main support or bearing located between the rear end R of the chest support and the front end F of the abdominal support. The body support moves between the prone position and the raised position about the main bearing.

A pair of drive wheels are positioned as shown more or less centrally of the frame . Each wheel has a horizontal axis of rotation and is connected to a corresponding electric drive motor powered by a storage battery carried by an independent suspension or cradle . Each cradle has a pair of lower bearings secured to a lower cross member which is in turn secured to the side members of the frame . The bearings lie on a common horizontal lower axis . The cradle has an upper bearing coupled to upper cross member by a spring loaded damper or shock absorber which expands and contracts along upper axis . A free end of the shock absorber is rotatably coupled to the upper cross member by bearing . The cradle rotates about the lower axis as the shock absorber takes up motion between the upper bearing and the upper cross member . In the exemplary embodiment the cradle is positioned forward of the centrally located wheels. The cradles separately support each drive wheel and drive motor and thus each drive wheel engages the ground independently such that the corresponding rotational horizontal axis is separately moveable upwardly and downwardly about the lower axis . In this way as each wheel engages the ground it moves separately and independently from the other such that the frame remains generally unaffected by irregularities in the ground surface.

The frame is formed of tubular elements and has open areas . the open areas receive contoured transparent plastic sheets which cover the openings but allow the mechanism to be visible. The transparent sheets are held in position by clips attached to the tubular parts of the frame as shown.

The rear end R of the chest support rotates about a pivot axis coaxial with the main bearing between the prone or horizontal position upwardly to the elevated position . The front end F of the abdominal support rotates about the pivot axis A between prone position downwardly as the chest support section moves upwardly.

The leg support has a front end secured to the rear end of the abdominal support and a rear end extending rearwardly of the frame as shown. The foot support has a front end secured to the rear end of the leg support . The leg support moves with the abdominal support .

The abdominal support moves downwardly from the horizontal position when the chest support and tray move up. Likewise the leg support moves down with the abdominal support. The leg support does not remain horizontal throughout its range of motion but first moves with the abdominal support until its free or rear end R engages a stop on the frame whereupon the leg support comes to rest in the horizontal position.

Each of the sections of the body support have an underlying support frame or deck member. For example the tray section has a tray deck a tray carried by the tray deck and a storage bin supported by the deck below the tray . The tray is slidably mounted to the deck so that the patient may push the tray forward to reveal access to the bin . In this way the position of the patient relative to the bin does not change when the bin is accessed thereby adding a measure of comfort and convenience for the patient.

The chest support has a chest support deck carrying a shaped chest cushion secured in overlying relation thereto. The abdominal support has an abdominal support deck carrying a shaped abdominal cushion secured thereto in overlying relation thereto The leg support section has a leg support deck carrying a shaped leg cushion secured thereto in overlying relation therewith.

The chest support deck and the leg support deck are pivotally connected by bearing establishing an axis of rotation about which the sections rotate. The leg support deck is secured below the chest support deck . The abdominal support deck has rear extensions which engage the forward end of the leg support deck. The leg support deck has a forward extension extending forwardly of the bearing and having an outboard or free end and a distal or inboard end . The forward extension normally engages the underside of the abdominal support deck when the body support is in the prone position such that the leg support deck is maintained in alignment as a cantilever extending from the rear end R of the chest support deck as it is lowered when the body support is itself lifted to the raised position.

The leg support deck is positioned below and overlaps with the abdominal support deck . Thus the extension acts as a cantilever for carrying the leg support. Thus when the body support is in the lower position the extension engages the underside of the abdominal support deck such that the leg support deck is held horizontally and in alignment with the abdominal support as shown in .

The frame has a pair of stops mounted inwardly for engaging the underside of the leg support deck near the rear end R of the leg support section . As the leg support section moves downwardly the frame engages the stops whereby the leg support section rotates relative to the abdominal support .

As shown the abdominal support section moves downwardly to a point where its rear end R is more or less aligned horizontally with respect to the stops . Accordingly the leg support comes to rest in the horizontal position when the abdominal support comes to rest at the end of its downward motion. The position of the stops may be changed or adjusted so that the leg support may come to rest in a different orientation as desired. Thus the rear extensions of the chest support deck and the forward extensions of the leg support deck cooperate to lift the leg support and allow it to articulate to the horizontal rest position when it engages the stops .

The leg support deck has a rear or free end . As shown in the leg support deck is free to rotate upwardly counter clockwise as it moves downwardly from the prone position with the abdominal support deck as the body support is raised or lifted to the elevated position . As the leg support deck moves with the abdominal support deck the free end moves downwardly and engages the frame stops . As a result the leg support deck rotates upwardly or counterclockwise with respect to the abdominal support deck . When the latter comes to rest the leg support likewise comes to rest at a generally horizontal orientation as shown in .

The rear end R of the tray section is secured to the front end F of the chest support section . The tray support deck has a pair of lateral bearings connected to corresponding lateral bearings on the chest support deck . As the front end F of the chest support deck is raised the rear end R of the tray deck is raised.

As noted above the tray support section remains horizontal as it moves up and down. This is necessary because the patient is likely to carry personal items on the tray or in the drawer below and it is not desirable for the tray to tilt as the tray is raised and lowered as such personal objects may slide or fall of the tray. Accordingly as shown in the tray section is equipped with a four bar linkage for maintaining the tray support deck in a horizontal orientation.

The four bar linkage includes a pair of elongated upper and lower parallel bars which extend generally lengthwise of the chest support section and a pair of relatively short forward and rearward parallel vertical bars which extend downwardly from the underside of chest support deck . The upper bar is an integral part of the chest support deck and moves with it. The rearward bar extends downwardly from the main bearing which rotates about axis A. The rearward bar has an upper end fixedly attached to the frame for maintaining the rear bar in a fixed vertical position and extending downwardly from the bearing . The upper end of forward bar is rotatably secured to the tray support deck at the forward end F of the tray support deck and the bar has a free lower end . The lower bar is connected between the lower end of the rear bar and the lower end of the forward bar .

The forward bar has a forwardly extending leg which is fixedly secured to or is an integral part of the tray support deck . The chest support deck carries the four bar linkage up and down as it is driven by the motor or actuator and screw drive . The forward bar remains vertical it moves up and down because the lower bar establishes a rotational radius extending between the lower end of the rear bar to the lower end of the forward bar . Likewise the forwardly extending leg secured to or integral with forward bar remains in the horizontal position as the forward bar moves up and down. The four bar linkage thereby maintains the tray section in a horizontal orientation as the tray moves between the lower and raised positions.

The various sections of the body support move in a coordinated fashion. As noted above the chest support section moves up and down with the motor. The tray section moves with the chest support section. As hereinafter described the abdominal support moves with the tray section and the leg support moves with the chest support section.

As shown in a rocker beam is rotatably secured to a bearing fixed to the frame below the pivot axis A. The beam has a forward end and a rearward end . The forward end of the beam is pivotally secured to the underside to of the chest support deck by an interconnecting linkage . Thus as the chest support deck is raised the forward end of the beam rotates upwardly.

The rear end of the beam is coupled to a linkage having a proximate end pivotally connected thereto and a distal end slideably connected to a slotted member secured to the underside of the leg support deck . The slotted member has an elongated slot extending longitudinally of the leg support deck .

The abdominal support deck is linked to the tray support deck by a linkage mechanism which causes the abdominal support deck to rotate in the downward direction when the tray deck moves upwardly. As noted above when the chest support section is driven up and down the tray support section follows but remains horizontal.

The linkage mechanism connecting the tray support deck and the abdominal support deck includes first second third and fourth links . The first link has a proximate end pivotally connected to the underside of the tray support deck and a distal end pivotally connected to a distal end of the second link . The second link has a proximal end pivotally connected to the frame . The third link has a forward end connected to the second link intermediate the ends thereof. The third link has a rearward end connected to a distal end of the fourth link which in turn has a proximal end fixedly connected to the underside of the abdominal support deck .

As the first link moves up and down the second link rotates about the proximal end . The third link driven by the second link thus moves the abdominal support deck down as the tray support deck moves up and vice versa.

As noted above as the abdominal support section moves up and down the leg support moving with it likewise moves up and down. The linkage connected between the rear end of the beam and the slotted member guides the leg support section as it moves towards the stops .

The housing is adjustable about a horizontal axis which is disposed transverse to the longitudinal axis of the body support . An apertured disk is secured to the housing between the proximate intermediate walls. A forwardly extending support is connected to the disk by a removable pin . The support is fixed to the rear end of the leg support by an adjustable telescopic pin . The relative position of the foot housing with respect to the leg support may be adjusted longitudinally by the telescopic pin and the rotational aspect of the housing may be adjusted by rotating the disk with respect to the pin and inserting clips or pins to secure the housing from rotation as the correct and comfortable position of the housing is determined.

Electrical control for the cart is achieved by means of a controller mounted to the frame. The controller is coupled to the electric drive motors which drive the wheels and which in turn are powered by the rechargeable batteries . A joystick is mounted on the tray section at a convenient location for use by the patient. The joystick controls forward reverse left and right operation of the cart by selectively powering the left and right drive motors which in turn rotate the wheels in forward and reverse directions.

The drive wheels may operate in the same or opposite sense for facilitating tight control of the cart. For example if the patient is in a congested corridor or if the patient enters a small furnished room it is possible for the patient to easily maneuver the cart in and around the obstacles in such a corridor or room. This is because the wheels are positioned on an axis located more or less midway along the longitudinal axis of the cart. As a result the cart can rotate 360 about such axis with a resulting zero turning radius. In addition left and right control of the cart is facilitated by independent control of the motor direction as well.

A separate control or joystick may be coupled to the controller batteries and reversible lift motor for raising and lowering the body support. A single joystick may be employed for combining the various functions.

The controller joystick and reversible drive and lift motors are known devices available in the market. The various linkages described herein may have bearings which are adjustable. For example the third link in the linkage mechanism may have ends which carry bearings mounted to a machine screw. Thus the ends of the link and other linkages in the cart may be extended or adjusted for optimum performance.

The cushions and are each formed with a 20 mm plywood base with t nut fasteners . Urethane IFD foam padding overlies the base. The padding has a central area thickness of 50 mm and side bolsters having a thickness of about 75 mm. A visco elastic memory foam topper overlies the padding . A vinyl cover cut and sewn to shape overlies the topper and is attached to the base to enclose the cushion materials.

