---

title: Electron injection-controlled microcavity plasma device and arrays
abstract: An embodiment of the invention is a microcavity plasma device that can be controlled by a low voltage electron emitter. The microcavity plasma device includes driving electrodes disposed proximate to a microcavity and arranged to contribute to generation of plasma in the microcavity upon application of a driving voltage. An electron emitter is arranged to emit electrons into the microcavity upon application of a control voltage. The electron emitter is an electron source having an insulator layer defining a tunneling region. The microplasma itself can serve as a second electrode necessary to energize the electron emitter. While a voltage comparable to previous microcavity plasma devices is still imposed across the microcavity plasma devices, control of the devices can be accomplished at high speeds and with a small voltage, e.g., about 5V to 30V in preferred embodiments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08471471&OS=08471471&RS=08471471
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08471471
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 000 388 which was filed on Oct. 25 2007.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. F49620 03 1 0391 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is microcavity plasma devices also known as microplasma devices and arrays of microcavity plasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices spatially confine a low temperature nonequilibrium plasma to a cavity with a characteristic dimension d below 1 mm and as small as 10 m 10 m. Researchers at the University of Illinois have developed and demonstrated a range of microcavity plasma devices and arrays of microcavity plasma devices. A number of fabrication processes and device structures have advanced the state of the art and provided devices and arrays in a variety of materials including for example semiconductors ceramics glass and polymers. Arrays of microcavity plasma devices that have been developed include addressable arrays. Devices can be operated at high pressures up to and beyond atmospheric pressure thus simplifying the requirements for packaging an array. Plasma display panel technology on the other hand requires a partial vacuum in the display which requires accordingly sturdy packaging to protect the panels. The various microcavity plasma devices and arrays that have been developed to date have broad utility with certain ones being especially suited toward one application or another including for example general lighting applications displays including high definition displays medical therapeutic procedures and environmental sensors.

Previous microcavity plasma devices have been turned on and modulated if modulation was desired by varying the full voltage across the io device. The RMS value of this voltage is typically 150 V or more. Switching high voltages directly requires relatively expensive driving electronics. Current commercial plasma display panels which do not use microcavity plasma devices switch high voltages for example. The circuitry for switching the high voltages represents a significant cost in the manufacturing of existing plasma televisions for example. The expense does not arise from the need to apply a high voltage say 150 V to a pixel in a display but rather from the need to vary it modulate quickly in response to a video signal. The need for high speed and high voltage has a serious negative impact on the cost of the electronics and the plasma display panel.

Researchers at the University of Illinois have previously developed field emission assisted microcavity plasma devices which are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 126 266 the 266 patent which issued on Oct. 24 2006. The field emission nanostructures disclosed in the 266 patent are integrated into microcavity plasma devices or situated near an electrode of microcavity plasma devices and serve to reduce operating and ignition voltages while also increasing the radiative output and efficiency. The field emission nanostructures in the 266patent include carbon nanotubes and other similar field emission nanostructures such as nanowires composed of silicon carbide zinc oxide molybdenum and molybdenum oxide organic semiconductors or tungsten. The field emission structures in the 266 patent is they cannot be controlled separately from the microplasma devices themselves. The field emission structures emit electrons as long as the microcavity plasma device is in operation. The inability to readily control nanotube and nanowire electron emission renders these nanostructures of limited value in reducing the voltage necessary to modulate a microplasma device.

An embodiment of the invention is a microcavity plasma device that can be controlled by a low voltage electron emitter. The microcavity plasma device includes driving electrodes disposed proximate to a microcavity and arranged to contribute to generation of plasma in the microcavity upon application of a driving voltage. An electron emitter is arranged to emit electrons into the microcavity upon application of a control voltage. The electron emitter is an electron source having an insulator layer defining a tunneling region. While a voltage comparable to previous microcavity plasma devices is still imposed across the microcavity plasma devices control of the devices can be accomplished at high speeds and with a small voltage e.g. about 5V to 30V in preferred embodiments. The microplasma itself can serve as a second electrode necessary to energize the electron emitter which permits omission of a top electrode on an emitter used to emit electrons into the microcavity in preferred embodiments.

Microcavity plasma devices and arrays of the invention are modulated by a controllable electron emitter requiring a substantially smaller voltage than that applied across a microcavity in the device or array to generate a plasma. A driving voltage is applied across microcavity plasma devices while a small control voltage is applied to one or more electron emitters that inject electrons into the microcavity of a device. The effect of electron injection into a microplasma is to increase both the conductance current and light emitted by the plasma. While a voltage comparable to previous microcavity plasma devices is still imposed across the microcavity plasma devices control of the devices can be accomplished at high speeds and with a small voltage e.g. about 5V to 30V in preferred embodiments.

An embodiment of the invention is a microcavity plasma device that can be controlled by a low voltage electron emitter. The microcavity plasma device includes driving electrodes disposed proximate to a microcavity and arranged to contribute to generation of plasma in the microcavity upon application of a driving voltage. An electron emitter is arranged to emit electrons into the microcavity upon application of a control voltage. The electron emitter is an electron source having an insulator layer defining a tunneling region. The microplasma itself serves as the second electrode necessary to energize the electron emitter.

Microcavity plasma devices and arrays of the invention have many applications. The devices and arrays are well suited for example to large format and high resolution video displays where control modulation speeds place severe demands on driving electronics. Various microcavity plasma devices and arrays of the invention are driven with an AC or DC driving voltage but they can be also modulated in response to small control voltage such as a video signal. The control voltage is applied to solid state electron emitter devices located near microcavities of the microcavity plasma devices. The solid state devices act as electron injectors and require only 5 30 V for operation permitting the microcavity plasma devices to be switched with a 5V 30V control voltage. In preferred embodiment microcavity plasma devices and arrays electron injectors lower the control voltage to below 10 V and most preferably sufficiently low to permit transistor transistor logic TTL circuitry generating 5 V pulses to control microcavity plasma device operation. TTL control of microcavity plasma devices makes large arrays of the devices especially well suited for realizing large and high resolution addressable displays.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

Making the spacer as thin as possible is desirable because it minimizes the distance electrons must travel before entering the microcavity . A shorter distance of travel translates to stronger control of the microplasma but also a shorter delay time between when the control voltage is applied and an effect of the injected electrons on the microplasma is observed. However bringing the emitter closer to the plasma increases the potential for damaging the electron emitter . In a preferred embodiment a 70 m thickness for the spacer was found to be effective for test devices having the structure. This distance will change with other structures and will be reduced with more robust emitters. It should be noted that electron emitters of the types illustrated in B C and A generally require a thin metal electrode on top of the tunneling insulator layer. However it has been found in experiments with the device of that this metal electrode is not necessary and in fact is not shown in . Instead the sheath region associated with the microplasma produced in microcavity will serve as an electrode. The advantage of dispensing with the top electrode of emitter is that the emission current injected into the microplasma is larger than would otherwise be the case.

The microcavity plasma device further includes driving electrodes separated by a dielectric . Additionally a screen electrode is illustrated and can be used to improve radiative efficiency. It should be emphasized that the screen electrode is not necessary for the functioning of the invention. The driving voltage shown in could simply be applied to electrode . The electrodes and as well as an electrode to drive the emitter can be part of a circuit interconnect pattern in an array of microcavity plasma devices. Devices in arrays can be individually addressed via electrode of the electron emitter with small e.g. 5 30V voltages.

The invention is also applicable to other microcavity devices and arrays formed by semiconductor fabrication processes. Exemplary microcavity plasma devices and arrays that could be modified to include electron injection control of the invention are disclosed in the following US patents and applications that are incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 918 to Eden et al. issued Sep. 26 2006 and entitled Microdischarge Devices and Arrays Having Tapered Microcavities U.S. application Ser. No. 11 042 228 filed Jan. 25 2005 entitled AC Excited Microcavity Discharge Device and Method U.S. Published Application No. 20050269953 entitled Phase Locked Microdischarge Array and AC RF or Pulse Excited Microdischarge.

In the preferred embodiment devices of the tunneling electron emitter is a quasi Schottky type structure. The term quasi is used because this simple emitter comprises only a thin metal film at the backside for connection purposes a semiconductor region n Si in a preferred embodiment and a very thin dielectric film . Other types of tunneling electron emitters can be used such as metal insulator metal MIM tunneling emitters.

An experimental device consistent with the device was constructed and tested. All data were taken for 300 Torr of Ne in the microcavities and the bipolar voltage waveform shown in drove the top electrode and screen electrode through a resistor. For these tests the emitter was biased with a negative DC voltage as shown in . Measured current and fluorescence intensity waveforms showed a strong dependence on electron injection by the electron emitter indicating that the microplasmas generated in microcavity are controllable by a small voltage applied to the electron emitter. Discharge current and light output rise dramatically when the tunneling electron emitter is turned on with a small voltage. The tests showed that the electron injection by the tunneling electron emitter can be responsible for virtually all of the conduction current even though the maximum voltage applied to the tunneling electron emitter was no more than 8 of the driving voltage applied to the microcavity plasma device. As seen in the summary data presented in with a voltage of just 20V V applied to the tunneling emitter see with EE electron emitter curve the discharge conduction current is more than triple the value measured without electron ejection without EE . A substantial difference is present at even 5V with the emission intensity more than doubling as a result of electron injection indicating that standard microcircuit control voltages can be used to control plasma generation. Emission intensities from the microcavity plasma device show similar dependence upon the electron injection from the electron emitter.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

