---

title: Weight discrimination of colliding ballistic objects
abstract: When a kinetic kill vehicle is launched against an incoming ballistic object and the two objects collide, by measuring the deflection angle of the trajectory of the merged object and comparing the deflection angle against a threshold value, a determination is made as to the relative weight of the incoming ballistic object and whether or not the incoming ballistic object is a decoy and not the warhead.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07798043&OS=07798043&RS=07798043
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07798043
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract N00024 03 C 6110 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems for intercepting an object traveling in ballistic trajectory.

One of the challenges of defending against ballistic missiles is that some ballistic missiles may deploy a plurality of decoys during the reentry phase of the ballistic flight. Although the decoys are detectible by radar they are not distinguishable from the warhead based on the radar track data alone. One method of defending against such a ballistic missile involves launching multiple kinetic kill vehicles to intercept many of the incoming ballistic objects so that at least one of which will be a warhead and others being decoys. However because a large number of decoys are deployed by a ballistic missile it is not practical to intercept every incoming object and only some are intercepted. Thus when kinetic kill vehicles intercept one or more incoming ballistic objects deployed by a ballistic missile it would be beneficial to automatically determine if the intercepted ballistic object is not the warhead. That would allow appropriate follow on actions to be taken.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for determining the relative weight of an incoming ballistic object with respect to a predefined weight value said incoming ballistic object moving in a ballistic trajectory is disclosed. The method comprises launching at least a second object of a known weight toward the incoming ballistic object thereby resulting in the two objects colliding at a strike angle and producing a merged object traveling on a second ballistic trajectory that is deflected from the first ballistic trajectory of the ballistic object by a deflection angle. Immediately before the collision pre collision track data is collected where the pre collision track data comprises velocity vectors of the incoming ballistic object and the second object immediately prior to the ballistic object and the second object collide. After the collision post collision track data is collected where the post collision track data comprises observed filtered velocity vector of the merged object after the collision. Next the deflection angle of the second ballistic trajectory of the merged object is determined based on the pre collision and post collision track data and then the strike angle is determined based on the pre collision track data. Next a threshold value for the deflection angle is determined based on the strike angle and said predefined weight value. The relative weight of the incoming ballistic object is determined by comparing the deflection angle with the threshold value and an appropriate follow on action is taken based on the determination of the relative weight of the incoming ballistic object.

According to another embodiment a method for determining whether or not an incoming ballistic object moving in a ballistic trajectory is heavier than a predefined weight value is disclosed. The method comprises launching at least a second object of known weight toward the ballistic object thereby resulting in the two objects colliding at a strike angle and producing a merged object traveling on a second ballistic trajectory that is deflected from the first ballistic trajectory of the ballistic object by a deflection angle. Immediately before the two objects collide pre collision track data comprising velocity vectors of the ballistic object and the second object is collected. Post collision track data is collected after the collision. The post collision track data comprises the observed filtered velocity vector of the merged object. From the pre collision and post collision track data the deflection angle of the second ballistic trajectory of the merged object is determined and the strike angle is determined from the pre collision track data. Then a threshold value of the deflection angle is determined based on the strike angle and the predefined weight value and by comparing the deflection angle with the threshold value a determination is made as to whether or not the ballistic object was a decoy and not the warhead and an appropriate follow on action is taken.

This description of the preferred embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description of this invention. In the description relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and do not require that the apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation.

However although the ballistic objects in the target complex can be detected by a radar because all of the incoming ballistic objects comprising the target complex have substantially the same velocity and radar signatures the warhead is not necessarily distinguishable from the decoys based on the radar information. The method of the present disclosure allows determining whether or not the incoming ballistic object intercepted by a given kinetic kill vehicle was the warhead based on general condition that the warhead is substantially heavier than the decoys . Given that condition acquisition of the pre collision and post collision dynamics of the two objects the kinetic kill vehicle and the incoming ballistic object allows determination as to whether the warhead has been intercepted.

Still referring to according to another aspect of the present disclosure the target complex can also include one or more objects only one shown for illustrative purposes that are also heavier than the decoys but can have a weight similar to or different than warhead . The method of the present disclosure can be applied to determine whether the warhead has not been intercepted and one of the decoys has been intercepted by a given kinetic kill vehicle. This will be elaborated further below.

Referring to the method of discriminating the incoming ballistic object B intercepted by a given kinetic kill vehicle K of a known weight according to an embodiment will be described. A characteristic of the decoys among the incoming ballistic objects comprising the target complex is that they are substantially lighter than the warhead . This is also a characteristic shared by the kinetic kill vehicles and K. In other words the kinetic kill vehicles are also substantially lighter than the warhead . Since kinetic kill vehicles are known objects launched against the incoming ballistic objects the weight of each of the kinetic kill vehicles are always known. The method of the present disclosure utilizes this substantial difference in the weight between the warhead decoys and the kinetic kill vehicle to determine whether or not the kinetic kill vehicle intercepted the warhead based on measured parameters of the post collision dynamics. In cases where the kinetic kill vehicle is a self propelled object carrying fuel the fuel remaining on board the kinetic kill vehicle at the time of the collision is factored into the calculations concerning the pre collision and post collision dynamics. For example the estimated weight of the remaining fuel on board can be added to the known net weight of the kinetic kill vehicle.

According to an embodiment the collision between the kinetic kill vehicle K and the incoming ballistic object B of unknown weight is assumed to be an inelastic collision with total absorption. The incoming ballistic object B is traveling in a trajectory Tand has a velocity right arrow over V and weight W. The kinetic kill vehicle K is traveling in a trajectory Tand has a velocity right arrow over V and weight W. The incoming ballistic object B and the kinetic kill vehicle K collide at a strike angle . Through the inelastic collision the incoming ballistic object B and the kinetic kill vehicle K merge into a merged object M. The merged object M has a velocity right arrow over V and weight Wand travels along a trajectory Tthat has been deflected from the trajectory Tof the incoming ballistic object B by a deflection angle .

The incoming ballistic object B and the kinetic kill vehicle K are monitored and tracked by a radar and thus the velocity right arrow over V of the incoming ballistic object B and the velocity right arrow over V of the kinetic kill vehicle K before the collision hereinafter referred to as the pre collision track data are collected. The velocity right arrow over V of the merged object M after the collision the post collision track data is measured and collected by the radar. Because the weight Wof the kinetic kill vehicle K is a known quantity by measuring the velocities of the two colliding objects before the collision the velocity right arrow over V of the merged object M and its deflected angle one can determine whether or not the incoming ballistic object B was one of the decoys and not the warhead which is substantially heavier than the kinetic kill vehicle K. In a first scenario where the collision is with the warhead because the warhead is substantially heavier than the kinetic kill vehicle K the deflected angle will be small. Whereas in a second scenario where the collision is with one of the decoys whose weights are substantially less than the weight of the warhead the deflected angle will be much larger. Therefore by setting a threshold value for the deflected angle and comparing the measured deflection angle to the threshold value the nature of the incoming ballistic object B can be determined. If the measured deflection angle is less than the threshold value the incoming ballistic object B was the heavy object or the warhead . If the measured deflection angle is greater than the threshold value the incoming ballistic object B was a decoy.

The deflection angle can be computed from the velocities measured from the radar. The deflection angle is given by

Next in order to compensate for the radar measurement errors in the observed deflection angle the error standard deviation of the deflection angle is determined. The error standard deviation of the deflection angle can be expressed as square root over csc where

 1 2 2 3 1 3 represent the ballistic object filter velocity error cross covariance for xy yz and xz respectively.

The covariance terms above represent filter velocity errors associated with the ballistic object B and kinetic kill vehicle K respectively. Each of these covariance terms are used in the calculation of the terms and Cgiven by

Next in order to determine or set the threshold deflection angle value the strike angle of the incoming ballistic object B and the kinetic kill vehicle K is calculated from the pre collision track data by

In one embodiment after the strike angle is calculated the strike angle and the stored data representing the plots of for example is used to determine a threshold deflection angle . Referring to if the calculated strike angle is 50 degrees the threshold deflection angle can be defined as 25 degrees for example which is the deflection angle corresponding to a 20 kg object colliding inelastically with the kinetic kill vehicle. Then if the deflection angle of the merged object M calculated as discussed above is greater than or equal to 25 degrees one can conclude that the incoming ballistic object B intercepted by the kinetic kill vehicle K was at most 20 kg and thus a light object. The conclusion will be that the incoming ballistic object B was one of the decoys and not a warhead. On the other hand if the calculated deflection angle of the merged object M is less than 25 degrees one can conclude that the incoming ballistic object B intercepted by the kinetic kill vehicle K was heavier than a weight class of maximum 20 kg. The conclusion will be that the incoming ballistic object B was either the heavy object or the warhead .

In another embodiment after the strike angle is calculated the strike angle and the stored data representing the plots of for example is used to determine a threshold deflection angle . Looking at the plot of if the calculated strike angle is 50 degrees the threshold deflection angle can be defined as 1.8 degrees for example which is the deflection angle corresponding to a 500 kg object colliding inelastically with the kinetic kill vehicle. Then if the calculated deflection angle of the merged object M is less than or equal to 1.8 degrees we know that the incoming ballistic object B intercepted by the kinetic kill vehicle K was at least 500 kg and thus a heavy object. The conclusion will be that the incoming ballistic object B was the heavy object or warhead and not a decoy. On the other hand if the calculated deflection angle of the merged object M is greater than 1.8 degrees we know that the incoming ballistic object B intercepted by the kinetic kill vehicle K was lighter than a weight class of minimum 500 kg. The conclusion will be that the incoming ballistic object B was one of the decoys and not a warhead.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure when there are more than two identifiable weight categories among the incoming ballistic objects a series of threshold deflection angles can be employed to identify whether a desired warhead has intercepted different categories. For example one such situation would be where the target complex includes a heavy object that is heavier than 2000 kg i.e. heavier than the decoys and the warhead see and the expected weight of the warhead is greater than 20 kg but less than 2000 kg. Such heavy object can be a tank for example. Thus in this example the incoming ballistic objects can fall into one of three weight categories 1 decoy weight class 2 warhead weight class and 3 other heavy object weight class.

In order to confirm whether or not the warhead has been intercepted two threshold deflection angles and can be defined. For purposes of this discussion we will consider a case where the strike angle is 50 degrees. can be set as 25 degrees the deflection angle corresponding to a 20 kg object as shown in . can be set as 0.5 degrees the deflection angle corresponding to a 2000 kg object as shown in . After the strike angle of 50 degrees and a deflection angle are calculated from the radar track data of the colliding objects the calculated deflection angle is compared to the . If the radar system would conclude that the intercepted object was one of the decoys . In that situation since the warhead is still inbound an appropriate follow on action would be taken to address the incoming warhead . Another kinetic kill vehicle can be launched or a different countermeasure may be taken. If the radar system would conclude that the intercepted object was not one of the decoys because it was heavier than a decoy. However at this point it is not known whether the intercepted object was the warhead or the other heavy object . Next the calculated deflection angle is compared to the . If it would mean that the intercepted object was heavier than the decoys but lighter than the heavy object and the radar system would conclude that a heavy object was intercepted. If 

According to an aspect of the present disclosure look up tables or programmed formulae representing plots similar to those shown in can be prepared and stored in the radar system to accommodate kinetic kill vehicles of varying weights as well as different weight classes of decoys and warheads. Thus by setting an appropriate threshold deflection angle and then comparing the calculated deflection angle against the threshold value a radar system can quickly determine whether a warhead has been intercepted by the kinetic kill vehicle. Depending on the outcome a decision can be made as to the appropriate follow on action to be taken. For example if the kinetic kill vehicle intercepted a decoy rather than a warhead an appropriate follow on action can be to launch another kinetic kill vehicle to intercept the warhead. If the kinetic kill vehicle intercepted a warhead an appropriate follow on action can be to track or scan for another target complex and launch another kinetic kill vehicle.

As can be understood from the discussion presented herein the information about the weight of the warhead is known and that information is used to set the deflection angle threshold values accordingly.

Referring to an example of a radar system incorporating the method of the present invention is shown. The radar system comprises a central processing unit in which a computer coding embodying the method of the present invention is loaded and running. The radar system can also comprise at least one data storage unit that is in communication with the central processing unit for storing information such as the data representing the plots of discussed above that is accessible to the central processing unit . The radar system also comprises a radar unit that is in communication with the central processing unit that provides the pre collision and post collision track data discussed above. The radar system also comprise a user interface such as a display terminal that allows the user to view the radar tracking information and or the output of the radar system and enable a user to input any necessary information or control the operation of the radar system . The specific hardware that may comprise each of these components of the radar system to implement the method of the present disclosure is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

