---

title: Restrictive reuse for a wireless communication system
abstract: For restrictive reuse, each cell (or each sector) is assigned (1) a set of usable subbands that may be allocated to users in the cell and (2) a set of forbidden subbands that is not used. The usable and forbidden sets for each cell are orthogonal to one other. The usable set for each cell also overlaps the forbidden set for each neighboring cell. A user u in a cell x may be allocated subbands in the usable set for that cell. If user u observes/causes high level of interference from/to a neighboring cell y, then user u may be allocated subbands from a “restricted” set containing subbands included in both the usable set for cell x and the forbidden set for cell y. User u would then observe/cause no interference from/to cell y. The subband restriction may be extended to avoid interference from multiple neighboring cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483691&OS=08483691&RS=08483691
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08483691
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
The present Application for Patent is a divisional of patent application Ser. No. 10 871 084 entitled RESTRICTIVE REUSE FOR A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Jun. 18 2004 pending which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 516 558 entitled ACTIVE SET BASED RESTRICTIVE FREQUENCY HOPPING FOR OFDMA filed Oct. 30 2003 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to communication and more specifically to data transmission in a wireless multiple access communication system.

A wireless multiple access system can concurrently support communication for multiple wireless terminals on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from terminals to base stations. Multiple terminals may simultaneously transmit data on the reverse link and or receive data on the forward link. This may be achieved by multiplexing the data transmissions on each link to be orthogonal to one another in time frequency and or code domain. The orthogonality ensures that the data transmission for each terminal does not interfere with the data transmissions for other terminals.

A multiple access system typically has many cells where the term cell can refer to a base station and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. Data transmissions for terminals in the same cell may be sent using orthogonal multiplexing to avoid intra cell interference. However data transmissions for terminals in different cells may not be orthogonalized in which case each terminal would observe inter cell interference from other cells. The inter cell interference may significantly degrade performance for certain disadvantaged terminals observing high levels of interference.

To combat inter cell interference a wireless system may employ a frequency reuse scheme whereby not all frequency bands available in the system are used in each cell. For example a system may employ a 7 cell reuse pattern and a reuse factor of K 7. For this system the overall system bandwidth W is divided into seven equal frequency bands and each cell in a 7 cell cluster is assigned one of the seven frequency bands. Each cell uses only one frequency band and every seventh cell reuses the same frequency band. With this frequency reuse scheme the same frequency band is only reused in cells that are not adjacent to each other and the inter cell interference observed in each cell is reduced relative to the case in which all cells use the same frequency band. However a large reuse factor e.g. two or more represents inefficient use of the available system resources since each cell is able to use only a fraction of the overall system bandwidth.

There is therefore a need in the art for techniques to reduce inter cell interference in a more efficient manner.

Techniques to efficiently avoid or reduce interference from strong interferers in a wireless communication system are described herein. A strong interferer to a given user u may be a base station on the forward link or another user on the reverse link . User u may also be a strong interferer to other users. A strong interference entity for user u may be a strong interferer causing high interference to user u and or a strong interferee observing high interference from or due to user u. Strong interference entities or interferers interferees or simply interferers ees for each user may be identified as described below. Users are allocated system resources e.g. frequency subbands that are orthogonal to those used by their strong interferers ees and thus avoid interfering with one another. These techniques are called restrictive reuse techniques and may be used for various wireless systems and for both the forward and reverse links.

In an embodiment of restrictive reuse each cell sector is assigned 1 a set of usable subbands that may be allocated to users in the cell sector and 2 a set of forbidden subbands that are not allocated to the users in the cell sector. The usable set and the forbidden set for each cell sector are orthogonal to one other. The usable set for each cell sector also overlaps the forbidden set for each neighboring cell sector. A given user u in a cell sector x may be allocated subbands in the usable set for that cell sector. If user u observes or causes high level of interference from to a neighboring cell sector y then user u may be allocated subbands from a restricted set that contains subbands included in both the usable set for cell sector x and the forbidden set for cell sector y. User u would then observe cause no interference from to cell sector y since the subbands allocated to user u are members of the forbidden set not used by cell sector y. The subband restriction may be extended to avoid interference from multiple neighboring cells sectors.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs.

For a centralized architecture a system controller couples to the base stations and provides coordination and control for these base stations. For a distributed architecture the base stations may communicate with one another as needed e.g. to serve a terminal coordinate usage of system resources and so on.

Each sector is typically served by a base transceiver subsystem BTS . In general the term sector can refer to a BTS and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. For a sectorized cell the base station for that cell typically includes the BTSs for all sectors of that cell. For simplicity in the following description the term base station is used generically for both a fixed station that serves a cell and a fixed station that serves a sector. A serving base station or serving sector is one with which a terminal communicates. The terms terminal and user are also used interchangeably herein.

The restrictive reuse techniques may be used for various communication systems. For clarity these techniques are described for an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA system that utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM . OFDM effectively partitions the overall system bandwidth into a number of N orthogonal frequency subbands which are also referred to as tones sub carriers bins frequency channels and so on. Each subband is associated with a respective sub carrier that may be modulated with data.

In the OFDMA system multiple orthogonal traffic channels may be defined whereby 1 each subband is used for only one traffic channel in any given time interval and 2 each traffic channel may be assigned zero one or multiple subbands in each time interval. A traffic channel may be viewed as a convenient way of expressing an assignment of subbands for different time intervals. Each terminal may be assigned a different traffic channel. For each sector multiple data transmissions may be sent simultaneously on multiple traffic channels without interfering with one another.

The OFDMA system may or may not use frequency hopping FH . With frequency hopping a data transmission hops from subband to subband in a pseudo random manner which can provide frequency diversity and other benefits. For a frequency hopping OFDMA FH OFDMA system each traffic channel may be associated with a specific FH sequence that indicates the particular subband s to use for that traffic channel in each time interval or hop period . The FH sequences for different traffic channels in each sector are orthogonal to one another so that no two traffic channels use the same subband in any given hop period. The FH sequences for each sector may also be pseudo random with respect to the FH sequences for neighboring sectors. These properties for the FH sequences minimize intra sector interference and randomize inter sector interference.

In the OFDMA system users with different channel conditions may be distributed throughout the system. These users may have different contribution and tolerance to inter sector interference. The channel condition for each user may be quantified by a signal quality metric which may be defined by a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR a channel gain a received pilot power and or some other quantity measured for the user s serving base station some other measurements or any combination thereof. A weak user has a relatively poor signal quality metric e.g. a low SINR for its serving base station e.g. due to a low channel gain for its serving base station and or high inter sector interference. A weak user may in general be located anywhere within a sector but is typically located far away from the serving base station. In general a weak user is less tolerant to inter sector interference causes more interference to users in other sectors has poor performance and may be a bottleneck in a system that imposes a fairness requirement.

Restrictive reuse can avoid or reduce interference observed caused by weak users. This may be achieved by determining the likely sources of high inter sector interference or strong interferers and or the likely victims of high inter sector interference or strong interferees for the weak users. The strong interferers may be base stations on the forward link and or users on the reverse link in neighboring sectors. The strong interferees may be users in neighboring sectors. In any case the weak users are allocated subbands that are orthogonal to those used by the strong interferers ees.

In an embodiment of restrictive reuse each sector x is assigned a usable subband set denoted as U and a forbidden or unused subband set denoted as F . The usable set contains subbands that may be allocated to the users in the sector. The forbidden set contains subbands that are not allocated to users in the sector. The usable set and the forbidden set for each sector are orthogonal or disjoint in that no subband is included in both sets. The usable set for each sector also overlaps the forbidden set for each neighboring sector. The forbidden sets for multiple neighboring sectors may also overlap. The users in each sector may be allocated subbands from the usable set as described below.

Restrictive reuse may be used for systems composed of unsectorized cells as well as systems composed of sectorized cells. For clarity restrictive reuse is described below for an exemplary system composed of 3 sector cells.

Three usable subband sets U Uand Umay be formed based on the three forbidden subband sets F Fand F respectively. Each usable set Umay be formed by a difference set operation between the full set and forbidden set F as follows and Eq 3 where denotes a difference set operation and

The three sectors in each 3 sector cell may be assigned a different pair of usable set and forbidden set. For example sector may be assigned usable set Uand forbidden set F sector may be assigned usable set Uand forbidden set F and sector may be assigned usable set Uand forbidden set F. Each sector is also aware of the forbidden sets assigned to neighboring sectors. Thus sector is aware of forbidden sets Fand Fassigned to neighboring sectors and sector is aware of forbidden sets Fand Fassigned to neighboring sectors and and sector is aware of forbidden sets Fand Fassigned to neighboring sectors and .

As shown in the restricted usable sets U Uand Uare different subsets of the unrestricted usable set Uassigned to sector . Restricted usable sets U Uand Umay be formed for sector and restricted usable sets U Uand Umay be formed for sector in similar manner. Table 1 lists the various usable subband sets for the three sectors and the manner in which these sets may be formed. The reuse sets in Table 1 are described below.

Each sector x where x 1 2 or 3 may allocate subbands in its usable set Uto users in the sector by taking into account the users channel conditions so that reasonably good performance may be achieved for all users. Sector x may have weak users as well as strong users. A strong user has a relatively good signal quality metric for its serving base station and is typically more tolerant to higher level of inter sector interference. A weak user is less tolerant to inter sector interference. Sector x may allocate any of the subbands in its usable set Uto the strong users in the sector. Sector x may allocate subbands in the restricted sets to the weak users in the sector. The weak users are in effect restricted to certain subbands known to be free of interference from strong interfering sectors.

For example a given user u in sector x may be allocated subbands from usable set Ufor sector x. If user u is deemed to be observing causing high inter sector interference from to sector y where y x then user u may be allocated subbands from the restricted set U U F. If user u is further deemed to be observing causing high inter sector interference from to sector z where z x and z y then user u may be allocated subbands from the more restricted set U U F F.

In general each forbidden set may contain any number of subbands and any one of the N total subbands subject to the constraints shown in equation 1 and possibly 2 . To obtain frequency diversity each forbidden set may contain subbands taken from across the N total subbands. The subbands in each forbidden set may be distributed across the N total subbands based on a predetermined pattern as shown in . Alternatively the subbands in each forbidden set may be pseudo randomly distributed across the N total subbands. The three forbidden sets F Fand Fmay also be defined with any amount of overlap. The amount of overlap may be dependent on various factors such as for example the desired effective reuse factor for each sector described below the expected number of weak users in each sector and so on. The three forbidden sets may overlap each other by the same amount as shown in or by different amounts.

Each user may be associated with a reuse set that contains the serving sector for the user as well as strong interferers ees if any for the user. The serving sector is denoted by boldfaced and underlined text in the reuse set. The strong interferers ees are denoted by normal text after the boldfaced and underlined text for the serving sector in the reuse set. For example a reuse set of denotes sector being the serving sector and sectors and being strong interferers ees.

Strong interferers to a given user u on the forward link are typically fixed and may be specifically identified e.g. based on pilots transmitted by the sectors. Strong interferers to user u on the reverse link may not be easily identified by forward link measurement performed by user u and may be deduced e.g. based on reverse link interference measurement by the serving base station of user u. Strong interferees for user u may also be specifically identified or deduced. Strong interferers ees for each user may be determined in various manners.

In one embodiment strong interferers ees for a given user u are determined based on received pilot powers as measured by user u for different sectors. Each sector may transmit a pilot on the forward link for various purposes such as signal detection timing and frequency synchronization channel estimation and so on. User u may search for pilots transmitted by the sectors and measure the received power of each detected pilot. User u may then compare the received pilot power for each detected sector against a power threshold and add the sector to its reuse set if the received pilot power for the sector exceeds the power threshold.

In another embodiment strong interferers ees for user u are determined based on an active set maintained by user u. The active set contains all sectors that are candidates for serving user u. A sector may be added to the active set e.g. if the received pilot power for the sector as measured by user u exceeds an add threshold which may or may not be equal to the power threshold described above . Each user in the system may be required to e.g. periodically update its active set and to report the active set to its serving sector. The active set information may be readily available at the sector and may be used for restrictive reuse.

In yet another embodiment strong interferers ees for user u are determined based on received pilot powers as measured at different sectors for user u. Each user may also transmit a pilot on the reverse link for various purposes. Each sector may search for pilots transmitted by users in the system and measure the received power of each detected pilot. Each sector may then compare the received pilot power for each detected user against the power threshold and inform the user s serving sector if the received pilot power exceeds the power threshold. The serving sector for each user may then add sectors that have reported high received pilot powers to that user s reuse set.

In yet another embodiment strong interferers ees for user u are determined based on a position estimate for user u. The position of user u may be estimated for various reasons e.g. to provide location service to user u and using various position determination techniques e.g. Global Positioning System GPS Advanced Forward Link Trilateration A FLT and so on which are known in the art . The strong interferers ees for user u may then be determined based on the position estimate for user u and sector cell layout information.

Several embodiments for determining strong interferers ees for each user have been described above. Strong interferers ees may also be determined in other manners and or based on other quantities besides received pilot power. A good signal quality metric for determining strong interferers on the forward link is an average SINR measured at a user for a base station which is also called geometry . A good signal quality metric for determining strong interferees on the reverse link is a channel gain measured at a user for a base station since SINR measurement is not available at the user for the base station. A single reuse set may be maintained for both the forward and reverse links or separate sets may be used for the two links. The same or different signal quality metrics may be used to update the sectors in the reuse set for the forward and reverse links.

In general strong interferers ees may be specifically identified based on direct measurements e.g. for the forward link or deduced based on related measurements sector cell layout and or other information e.g. for the reverse link . For simplicity the following description assumes that each user is associated with a single reuse set that contains the serving sector and other sectors if any deemed to be strong interferers ees for the user.

In a well designed system a weak user should have a relatively fair signal quality metric for at least one neighboring sector. This allows the weak user to be handed off from a current serving sector to a neighboring sector if necessary. Each such neighboring sector may be deemed as a strong interferer ee to the weak user and may be included in the user s reuse set.

In users and are located in close proximity and would have interfered strongly with each other without restrictive reuse. With restrictive reuse user is allocated subbands in restricted set U Fsince its reuse set is and user is allocated subbands in restricted set U U Fsince its reuse set is . Restricted sets Uand Uare mutually orthogonal since each restricted set Ucontains only subbands that are excluded from the usable set Uof which the other restricted set Uis a subset. Because users and are allocated subbands from orthogonal restricted sets Uand U respectively these two users do not interfere with one another.

As shown in the interference experienced by a user decreases as the size of its reuse set increases. A user with a reuse set size of one e.g. user in is interfered by distant interferers in six first tier neighboring sectors.

A user with a reuse set size of two e.g. user in is interfered by distant interferers in three first tier neighboring sectors. A user with a reuse set size of three is interfered by interferers in second tier neighbor sectors. In contrast without restrictive reuse all users in the system would be interfered by randomly distributed interferers from all six first tier neighboring sectors.

Restrictive reuse may be used to mitigate inter sector interference for weak users on both the forward and reverse links. On the forward link a weak user u in sector x may observe high inter sector interference from base stations for neighboring sectors that are in its reuse set. Weak user u may be allocated subbands that are not used by these neighboring sectors and would then observe no interference from the base stations for these sectors. Restrictive reuse may thus directly improve the SINRs of individual weak user u.

On the reverse link weak user u may observe high inter sector interference from users in neighboring sectors that are in its reuse set. Weak user u may be allocated subbands that are not used by these neighboring sectors and would then observe no interference from the users in these sectors. Weak user u may also be a strong interferer to the users in the neighboring sectors. Weak user u typically transmits at a high power level in order to improve its received SINR at its serving sector x. The high transmit power causes more interference to all users in the neighboring sectors. By restricting weak user u to subbands not used by the neighboring sectors in the reuse set weak user u would cause no interference to the users in these sectors.

When restrictive reuse is applied across the system weak user u may benefit from lower inter sector interference on the reverse link even if the strong interferers to weak user u cannot be identified. Weak users in neighboring sectors that have sector x in their reuse sets may be strong interferers to weak user u as well as other users in sector x. These strong interferers may be allocated subbands that are not used by sector x and would then cause no interference to the users in sector x. User u may thus observe no inter sector interference from these strong interferers even though user u is not able to identify them. Restrictive reuse generally improves the SINRs of all weak users.

For both the forward and reverse links restrictive reuse can avoid or reduce interference observed by weak users from strong interferers and thus improve the SINRs for the weak users. Restrictive reuse may reduce the variation in SINRs among users in the system. As a result improved communication coverage as well as higher overall system capacity may be achieved for the system.

Process shows allocation of subbands to weak users with at least one strong interference entity first then allocation of remaining subbands to strong users. In general the weak and strong users may be allocated subbands in any order. For example users may be allocated subbands based on their priority which may be determined from various factors such as the SINRs achieved by the users the data rates supported by the users the payload size the type of data to be sent the amount of delay already experienced by the users outage probability the maximum available transmit power the type of data services being offered and so on. These various factors may be given appropriate weights and used to prioritize the users. The users may then be allocated subbands based on their priority.

Process may be performed by each sector in each scheduling interval which may be a predetermined time interval. Each sector may send signaling e.g. to all users or to only users allocated different subbands to indicate the subbands allocated to each user. Process may also be performed 1 whenever there is a change in users in the sector e.g. if a new user is added or a current user is removed 2 whenever the channel conditions for the users change e.g. whenever the reuse set for a user changes or 3 at any time and or due to any triggering criterion. At any given moment all of the subbands may not be available for scheduling e.g. some subbands may already be in use for retransmissions or some other purposes.

The forbidden sets represent overhead for supporting restrictive reuse. Since the subbands in forbidden set Fare not used by sector x the percentage of the total subbands usable by sector x which is also the effective reuse factor for sector x may be given as U F where U denotes the size of set U. To reduce the amount of overhead for restrictive reuse the forbidden sets may be defined to be as small as possible. However the sizes of the restricted sets are dependent on the sizes of the forbidden sets. Thus the forbidden sets may be defined based on expected requirements for weak users and possibly other factors.

The usable and forbidden sets may be defined in various manners. In one embodiment the usable and forbidden sets are defined based on global frequency planning for the system and remain static. Each sector is assigned a usable set and a forbidden set forms its restricted sets as described above and thereafter uses the usable and restricted sets. This embodiment simplifies implementation for restrictive reuse since each sector can act autonomously and no signaling between neighboring sectors is required. In a second embodiment the usable and forbidden sets may be dynamically defined based on sector loading and possibly other factors. For example the forbidden set for each sector may be dependent on the number of weak users in neighboring sectors which may change over time. A designated sector or a system entity e.g. system controller may receive loading information for various sectors define the usable and forbidden sets and assign the sets to the sectors. This embodiment may allow for better utilization of system resources based on the distribution of users. In yet another embodiment the sectors may send inter sector messages to negotiate the usable and forbidden sets.

Restrictive reuse can support handoff which refers to the transfer of a user from a current serving base station to another base station that is deemed better. Handoff may be performed as needed to maintain good channel conditions for users on the edge of sector coverage or sector edge users . Some conventional systems e.g. a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system support hard handoff whereby a user first breaks away from the current serving base station and then switches to a new serving base station. A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system supports soft and softer handoffs which allow a user to simultaneously communicate with multiple cells for soft handoff or multiple sectors for softer handoff . Soft and softer handoffs can provide additional mitigation against fast fading.

Restrictive reuse can reduce interference for sector edge users which are good candidates for handoff. Restrictive reuse can also support hard soft and softer handoffs. A sector edge user u in sector x may be allocated subbands in the restricted set U which is free of interference from neighboring sector y. Sector edge user u may also communicate with sector y via subbands in the restricted set U which is free of interference from sector x. Since the restricted sets Uand Uare disjoint user u may simultaneously communicate with both sectors x and y and with no interference from strong interferers in both sectors for soft or softer handoff. User u may also perform hard handoff from sector x to sector y. Since restricted sets Uand Uare absent of strong interferers from sectors y and x respectively the received SINR of user u may not change quite as abruptly when user u is handed off from sector x to sector y which can ensure a smooth handoff.

Power control may or may not be used in combination with restrictive reuse. Power control adjusts the transmit power for a data transmission such that the received SINR for the transmission is maintained at a target SINR which may in turn be adjusted to achieve a particular level of performance e.g. 1 packet error rate PER . Power control may be used to adjust the amount of transmit power used for a given data rate so that interference is minimized. Power control be used for certain e.g. fixed rate transmissions and omitted for other e.g. variable rate transmissions. Full transmit power may be used for a variable rate transmission such as a hybrid automatic retransmission H ARQ which is continual transmission of additional redundancy information for each packet until the packet is decoded correctly in order to achieve the highest rate possible for a given channel condition.

In the above embodiment for restrictive reuse each sector is associated with one usable set and one forbidden set. Some other embodiments of restrictive reuse are described below.

In another embodiment of restrictive reuse each sector x is assigned an unrestricted usable subband set Uand a limited use subband set L. The unrestricted usable set contains subbands that may be allocated to any users in the sector. The limited use set contains subbands having certain use restrictions such as e.g. a lower transmit power limit. Sets Uand Lmay be formed in the manner described above for sets Uand F respectively.

Each sector x may allocate the subbands in sets Uand Lby taking into account the channel conditions for the users so that good performance may be achieved for all users. The subbands in set Umay be allocated to any user in sector x. Weak users in sector x may be allocated subbands in 1 a restricted set U U L if high interference is observed from neighboring sector y 2 a restricted set U U L if high interference is observed from neighboring sector z or 3 a restricted set U U L L if high interference is observed from neighboring sectors y and z. Strong users in sector x may be allocated subbands in L.

A strong user v in sector x has a good signal quality metric for its serving sector x and may be allocated subbands in the limited use set L. On the forward link sector x may transmit at or below the lower power limit for set Lto strong user v. On the reverse link strong user v may transmit at or below the lower power limit to serving sector x. Good performance may be achieved for strong user v for both the forward and reverse links even with the lower transmit power because of the good signal quality metric achieved by strong user v for sector x.

Strong user v typically has poor signal quality metrics for neighboring sectors. On the forward link the lower transmit power used by sector x for strong user v causes low and typically tolerable levels of interference to users in neighboring sectors. On the reverse link the lower transmit power used by strong user v plus the lower channel gains for neighboring sectors result in low and typically tolerable levels of interference to the users in the neighboring sectors.

In yet another embodiment of restrictive reuse each reuse set is associated with a sorted list of subband sets that may be used for the reuse set. Due to frequency planning restrictions the bandwidth of some restricted sets may be quite small such as restricted set Uwhich corresponds to reuse set . Suppose user u observes high interference from sectors and and is assigned to reuse set . Although user u will experience higher SINR due to reduced interference the bandwidth loss resulting from a restriction to a small restricted set Umay be detrimental in terms of the achievable throughput of user u. Hence for users in reuse set a sorted list of subband sets with descending preference may be defined e.g. U U U U where the subband sets within the square brackets have equal preference. The users in reuse set may then use larger bandwidth if necessary by using additional subband sets in the sorted list associated with reuse set . For users in reuse set the sorted list may be U U U U . For users in reuse set the sorted list may be U U U U . The sorted list for each reuse set may be defined to 1 reduce the amount of interference observed by the users in the reuse set and or 2 reduce the amount of interference caused by the users in the reuse set.

In still yet another embodiment of restrictive reuse each sector x is assigned multiple M usable sets and multiple e.g. M forbidden sets. The number of usable sets may or may not be equal to the number of forbidden sets. As an example multiple M pairs of usable and forbidden sets may be formed with the usable set Uand the forbidden set Fin each pair being formed such that each of the N total subbands is included in only set Uor set F e.g. U F where denotes a union set operation. However in general the M usable sets and M forbidden sets may be formed in various manners.

For example the M usable sets may be formed such that they are successively smaller subsets of the largest usable set. Each sector may then use the smallest possible usable set based on its loading. This may reduce the total interference to neighboring sectors when the sector is partially loaded. This may also increase the variation in the interference observed by neighboring sectors which may be exploited to improve overall system performance.

The M forbidden sets may be formed such that they are non overlapping. The number of weaker users in each sector and their data requirements are typically not known a priori. Each sector may utilize as many forbidden sets for neighboring sectors as required to support its weak users. For example sector x may utilize subbands in more forbidden sets for sector y to provide higher data rates to one or more weak users in sector x observing high interference from sector y or to support more of these weak users. The sectors may coordinate usage of the forbidden sets.

In general each sector may be assigned any number of unrestricted usable subband sets and any number of constrained subband sets. A constrained subband set may be a forbidden subband set or a limited use subband set. As an example a sector may be assigned multiple constrained subband sets. One constrained subband set may be a forbidden subband set and the remaining constrained subband set s may have different transmit power limits and may be allocated to different tiers of strong users. As another example a sector may be assigned multiple constrained subband sets where each constrained subband set may have a different transmit power limit i.e. no forbidden set . The use of multiple usable and or constrained sets for each sector may allow for better matching of subbands to weak users in different sectors.

For clarity restrictive reuse has been specifically described for a system with 3 sector cells. In general restrictive reuse may be used with any reuse pattern. For a K sector cell reuse pattern the forbidden set for each sector cell may be defined such that it overlaps with the forbidden set for each of the other K 1 sectors cells and may overlap with different combinations of other forbidden sets. Each sector cell may form different restricted sets for different neighboring sectors based on its usable set and the forbidden sets for the neighboring sectors. Each sector cell may then use the usable and restricted sets as described above.

Restrictive reuse has also been described for an OFDMA system. Restrictive reuse may also be used for a TDMA system a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA system a CDMA system a multi carrier CDMA system an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA system and so on. A TDMA system uses time division multiplexing TDM and transmissions for different users are orthogonalized by transmitting in different time intervals. An FDMA system uses frequency division multiplexing FDM and transmissions for different users are orthogonalized by transmitting in different frequency channels or subbands. In general the system resources to be reused e.g. frequency subbands channels time slots and so on may be partitioned into usable and forbidden sets. The forbidden sets for neighboring sectors cells overlap one another as described above. Each sector may form restricted sets based on its usable set and the forbidden sets for neighboring sectors cells as described above.

Restrictive reuse may be used for a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system. A GSM system may operate in one or more frequency bands. Each frequency band covers a specific range of frequencies and is divided into a number of 200 kHz radio frequency RF channels. Each RF channel is identified by a specific ARFCN absolute radio frequency channel number . For example the GSM 900 frequency band covers ARFCNs 1 through 124 the GSM 1800 frequency band covers ARFCNs 512 through 885 and the GSM 1900 frequency band covers ARFCNs 512 through 810. Conventionally each GSM cell is assigned a set of RF channels and only transmits on the assigned RF channels. To reduce inter cell interference GSM cells located near each other are normally assigned different sets of RF channels such that the transmissions for neighboring cells do not interfere with one another. GSM typically employs a reuse factor greater than one e.g. K 7 .

Restrictive reuse may be used to improve efficiency and reduce inter sector interference for a GSM system. The available RF channels for the GSM system may be used to form K pairs of usable and forbidden sets e.g. K 7 and each GSM cell may be assigned one of the K set pairs. Each GSM cell may then allocate RF channels in its usable set to users in the cell and RF channels in its restricted sets to weak users. Restrictive reuse allows each GSM cell to use a larger percentage of the available RF channels and a reuse factor closer to one may be achieved.

Restrictive reuse may also be used for a multi carrier communication system that utilizes multiple carriers for data transmission. Each carrier is a sinusoidal signal that may be independently modulated with data and is associated with a particular bandwidth. One such system is a multi carrier IS 856 system also called 3 DO data only that has multiple 1.23 MHz carriers. Each sector cell in the system may be allowed to use all carriers or only a subset of the carriers. A sector cell may be forbidden to use a given carrier to avoid causing interference on the carrier which may allow other sectors cells using this carrier to observe less or no interference achieve higher SINR and attain better performance. Alternatively a sector cell may be constrained to use a lower transmit power limit on a given carrier to reduce interference on the carrier. For each sector the constrained forbidden or limited use carrier s may be statically or dynamically assigned.

Each sector may assign its users to its usable carrier s . Each sector may also assign each user to a carrier in a manner to avoid strong interferers ees for the user. For example if multiple usable carriers are available then a user may be assigned one of the carriers having less interference for the user e.g. a carrier not used by a strong interferer to the user .

The processing for data transmission and reception with restrictive reuse is dependent on system design. For clarity exemplary transmitting and receiving entities in a frequency hopping OFDMA system for the restrictive reuse embodiment with a pair of usable and forbidden subband sets for each sector are described below.

An OFDM modulator receives N transmit symbols for each OFDM symbol period and generates a corresponding OFDM symbol. OFDM modulator typically includes an inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT unit and a cyclic prefix generator. For each OFDM symbol period the IFFT unit transforms the N transmit symbols to the time domain using an N point inverse FFT to obtain a transformed symbol that contains N time domain chips. Each chip is a complex value to be transmitted in one chip period. The cyclic prefix generator then repeats a portion of each transformed symbol to form an OFDM symbol that contains N C chips where C is the number of chips being repeated. The repeated portion is often called a cyclic prefix and is used to combat inter symbol interference ISI caused by frequency selective fading. An OFDM symbol period corresponds to the duration of one OFDM symbol which is N C chip periods. OFDM modulator provides a stream of OFDM symbols. A transmitter unit TMTR processes e.g. converts to analog filters amplifies and frequency upconverts the OFDM symbol stream to generate a modulated signal which is transmitted from an antenna .

Controller directs the operation at transmitting entity . Memory unit provides storage for program codes and data used by controller .

A controller directs the operation at receiving entity . A memory unit provides storage for program codes and data used by controller .

For restrictive reuse each sector or a scheduler in the system selects users for data transmission identifies the strong interferers ees for the selected users determines the usable or restricted set for each selected user based on its strong interferers ees if any and allocates subbands or assigns traffic channels from the proper sets to the selected users. Each sector then provides each user with its assigned traffic channel e.g. via over the air signaling. The transmitting and receiving entities for each user then perform the appropriate processing to transmit and receive data on the subbands indicated by the assigned traffic channel.

The restrictive reuse techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units used to identify strong interferers ees determine restricted sets allocate subbands process data for transmission or reception and perform other functions related to restrictive reuse may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

For a software implementation the restrictive reuse techniques may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in a memory unit e.g. memory unit in or memory unit in and executed by a processor e.g. controller in or in . The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

