---

title: Method for establishing a person as a user in a system
abstract: Dependents of benefit plan participants can be given access to personal information of a plan participant. The dependents, who are not existing users or members of the plan, can be allowed access to some or all of the personal information associated with the plan participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275652&OS=08275652&RS=08275652
owner: FMR LLC
number: 08275652
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 10 923 981 filed on Aug. 23 2004 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Families often have two working parents and a wealth of options when it comes to retirement saving plans medical plans and life insurance policies. Many families delegate the management of these plans to one family member who in some cases may not be the plan participant. As more and more families gain access to the world wide web Human Resource HR portals are becoming a popular means for employers and employee benefit plan providers to communicate and interact with employees and plan participants. By providing a single point of entry into numerous applications for employees and plan participants HR portals enhance the accessibility of personal information reduce call center volume and allow for frequently asked questions to be investigated and answered by the plan participants themselves.

HR portals allow users to perform functions such as changing addresses stored in the database requesting Personal Identification Numbers for access to accounts or changing the asset allocations in a 401 k plan.

The present invention relates to providing dependents and other authorized individuals access to the personal information of a participant of one or more employee benefit plans. More particularly the invention relates to a software application that allows one or more non plan participants e.g. dependents of a plan participant such as the participant s children spouse elderly relatives beneficiaries or agents of the plan participants such as a stock broker to access some or all data particular to a certain participant without requiring that the non participant be previously identified as a user of the software application or as a participant in the same benefit plan s .

HR portals have put account control into the hands of the plan participants but portals have limitations. Dependents or agents of the participants generally cannot view or modify information that may be relevant to them. A dependent wishing to change personal information such as their mailing address generally must request the plan participant to make the change on their behalf. Furthermore a dependent such as a wife or husband charged with managing the family finances is usually not permitted to assume the identity of the plan participant to update investment options or review healthcare data. Providing the dependent with the participant s username and password and thereby giving the dependent unfettered control over a participant s accounts introduces security risks. Therefore a need exists to allow plan participants to grant certain non participants such as their dependents and or agents electronic access to the participants personal information where the non participants may not previously have been identified to the software application s used to administer the benefit plans.

The invention facilitates access to data through a secure system such that users previously unidentified to the system can access a plan participant s personal information at the request of the participant. Additionally to address potential changes in the participant non participant relationship access privileges may also be revoked or modified by the participant as he or she sees fit.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of authorizing access to personal data. The method includes i obtaining by a first person via a software application access to personal information attributed to the first person ii providing the identity of a second person to the application the second person s identity being previously unknown to the application and iii providing to the software application a relationship between the first person and the second person.

In some embodiments the first person further provides parameters defining the second person s access privileges to the personal information attributed to the first person and in some cases the parameters are based on the relationship provided by the first person. In some embodiments the software application facilitates the operation of one or more employee benefit programs. Employee benefit programs may be human resource programs defined contribution programs defined benefits programs workplace savings programs medical savings programs or payroll programs. In some embodiments access to the personal information is obtained via an electronic communications network. An electronic communications network including one or more of the following a local area network a wide area network an intranet or the Internet.

In some embodiments the first person is required to provide user authentication information prior to obtaining access to the personal information. User authentication information may be a user name a password a social security number an employee number a client number biometric information or any combination thereof. Additionally in some embodiments the personal information attributed to the participant may be financial information beneficiary information or healthcare information.

In some embodiments the second person is a dependent of the first person. A dependent may be a wife a husband a child or parent of the first person. In other embodiments the second person is an agent of the first person such as an attorney a guardian a beneficiary an executor an accountant or a financial planner.

In some embodiments the identity of the second person is provided over an electronic communications network as described above e.g. the Internet . In other embodiments the identity of the second person is provided via a telephone. In still other embodiments the identity of the second person is provided via a customer service representative. These examples however do not limit the available channels through which the second person s identity may be provided.

The second person s access privileges to the first person s personal information can be defined through parameters. These parameters can include limiting the second person s access to a subset of the first person s personal information. The subset of the personal information can be based on date restrictions applied to the personal information or alternatively based on data type restrictions applied to the personal information. The data type restrictions can be based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person. Additionally in some embodiments operative restrictions may be provided which define the functions within the software application that are available to the second person. As with data type restrictions these operative restrictions can based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person. Additionally parameters defining the second person s access privileges may be provided which modify or even revoke the second person s access to the personal information.

In another aspect of the invention a method of allowing access to personal information includes i allowing via a software application a first person access to personal information attributed to the first person ii receiving the identity of a second person from the first person the identity of the second person being previously unknown to the application and iii receiving from the first person via the software application parameters defining the relationship between the first person and the second person.

In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving from the first person and via the software application parameters defining the second person s access privileges to the personal information attributed to the first person. The indication of the relationship may in some cases further define the second person s access privileges.

In some embodiments the software application facilitates the management of one or more employee benefit programs. The employee benefit programs may be human resource programs defined contribution programs defined benefits programs workplace savings programs medical savings programs or payroll programs.

In some embodiments access to the personal information attributed to a first person is obtained via an electronic communications network which again may be one or a combination of a local area network a wide area network an intranet or the Internet. The personal information may be stored in one or more database modules.

In one embodiment the invention receives user authentication information from the first person before providing access to his or her personal information. The user authentication information may be a user name a password a social security number an employee number a client number biometric information or a combination thereof. Additionally in some embodiments the personal information attributed to the first person may be financial information beneficiary information or healthcare information.

After the user authentication information is received the identity of a second person and his relationship to the first person are received. In some embodiments the second person is a dependent of the first person. A dependent may be a wife a husband a child or parent of the first person. In other embodiments the second person is an agent of the first person such as an attorney a guardian a beneficiary an executor an accountant or a financial planner.

In some embodiments the identity of the second person is received over an electronic communications network as described above e.g. the Internet . In other embodiments the identity of the second person is received via a telephone. In still other embodiments the identity of the second person is received via a customer service representative. These examples however do not limit the available channels that the second person s identity is received through.

The second person s access privileges to the personal information can be defined through parameters. These parameters may include limiting the second person s access to a subset of the personal information. This subset of the personal information may be based on date restrictions applied to the personal information or alternatively based on data type restrictions applied to the personal information. The data type restrictions are based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person. Additionally in some embodiments operative restrictions may be provided which define the functions within the software application available to the second person. These operative restrictions are based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person. Additionally parameters defining the second person s access privileges may be received which modify or even revoke the second person s access to the personal information.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a computerized system for allowing access to personal information. This system includes i one or more data storage modules for storing personal information attributed to a first person using the system ii a security module in electronic communication with the data storage module s for determining a subset of the personal information attributed to the first person and iii a communication module in electronic communication with the data storage module s and the security module for receiving electronic communications from the first person. The communications include instructions to grant or modify a second person access to the subset of the personal information attributed to the first person wherein the identity of the second person has not been previously provided to the system.

The personal information stored by the system may comprise a relationship between the first person and the second person. Additionally the second person s access can be based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person.

The system can include one or more data publishing modules for publishing data stored in the data storage modules. In one version the data publishing modules publish the stored data using web services. In this version and others the web services provide the data in an XML format. The XML format can also be deployed as a data feed that may be emailed or placed in a repository such as a File Transfer Protocol server.

The software application can facilitate the administration of one or more employee benefit programs such as human resource programs defined contribution programs defined benefits programs workplace savings programs medical savings programs or payroll programs.

In some embodiments the system includes a content module in electronic communication with both the communication module and the data storage modules. The content module provides text and images content for the software application. The content served by the content module may be stored as static HTML files or may be transmitted as HTML files that are assembled from one or more sections of text and or data stored in the data storage modules.

Some embodiments also include an authentication module for receiving user authentication information from the first user of the software application. The user authentication information may be a user name a password a social security number an employee number a client number biometric information or a combination thereof.

Still another aspect of the invention is a computerized system for allowing access to personal data. The system includes i means for providing access to a set of data to a first person a user of a software application the set of data including personal information attributed to the first person ii means for receiving from the first person the identity of a second person wherein the identity of the second person had not been previously provided to the software application and iii means for receiving from the first person parameters defining a subset of the set of data to which the second person may have access. The system further includes means for providing via the software application parameters defining a subset of the set of data to which the second person may have access. In some embodiments the parameters received define the second person s access and are based at least in part on the relationship between the first person and the second person. In some embodiments the parameters received define the second person s access privileges to the personal information. In some of these embodiments the parameters received modify or revoke the second person s access privileges.

The invention relates to computer based systems and methods that provide access to personal information for one or more dependents or agents of a participant in an employee benefit plan. In accordance with the invention a software application allows one or more dependents or agents identified by a plan participant to access some or all personal information particular to that participant even if the dependents or agents are not previously identified as users of the software application or participants in the benefit plan.

For example a record keeper may offer various plans to one or more sponsors such as large public corporations with thousands of employees. The plans may include a defined contribution plan such as a 401 k or 403 b plan a defined benefit plan such as a pension plan a deferred compensation plan such as a 457 plan and a health and welfare plan such as medical or dental insurance plan. Some of the data used to facilitate the record keeping activities supporting the plans includes attributes of plan participants such as their name social security number and address. Because some plans require the identification of one or more beneficiaries or provide benefits to individuals related to the plan participant data such as the name of the person related to the participant their role in the system their relationship to the participant and an identification of the primary plan participant to whom they are related is also captured. For example John Doe Sr. is an employee of plan sponsor ABC Corp. and participates in a medical plan provided by ABC Corp. Because he is the primary plan participant his role is characterized as a participant. Jane Doe however has an identified role of dependent e.g. she is covered by the medical plan in which her husband John participates is a beneficiary of a retirement plan etc. and therefore is assigned a relationship of wife of the primary participant John Doe indicating her relationship with her husband. Other possible examples include dependent children and children managing retirement accounts for elderly parents among others. These attributes are exemplary only and one skilled in the art would be able to tailor plan and member attributes to suit a variety of benefit plans and relationships among the participants.

Referring now to in one embodiment a system for allowing a participant to grant access to his or her personal information to a dependant or agent is provided. The system may be implemented using a production system including at least one server and at least one client and generally . As shown the system includes three clients but this is only for exemplary purposes and it is intended that there may be any number of clients . The client can be implemented as software running on a personal computer e.g. a PC with an Intel processor or an Apple Macintosh capable of running an operating system such as one of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the Macintosh operating system from Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. and various varieties of Unix such as Sun Solaris from Sun Microsystems and Linux from Red Hat Inc. of Durham N.C. and others . The client could also be implemented on such hardware as a smart or dumb terminal network computer personal data assistant wireless device information appliance workstation minicomputer mainframe computer kiosk or other computing device that is operated as a general purpose computer or a special purpose hardware device solely used for serving as a client in the production system .

Generally the plan participants or their dependents agents operate the clients . In various embodiments the client computer includes client applications generally . One example of a client application is a web browser application that allows the client to request a web page e.g. from the server with a web page request. An example of a web page is a data file that includes computer executable or interpretable information forms graphics sound text and or video that can be displayed executed played processed streamed and or stored and that can contain links or pointers to other web pages. In one embodiment a user of the client manually requests a web page from the server . Alternatively the client automatically makes requests with the web browser. Examples of commercially available web browsers are Internet Explorer offered by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and Netscape Navigator offered by AOL Time Warner of Mountain View Calif.

A communications network connects the client with the server . The communication may take place via any media such as standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless links and so on. The network can carry TCP IP protocol communications and HTTP HTTPS requests made by the web browser and the connection between the client applications and the server can be communicated over such TCP IP networks. The type of network is not a limitation however and any suitable network may be used. Typical examples of networks that can serve as the communications network include a wireless or wired Ethernet based intranet a local or wide area network LAN or WAN and or the global communications network known as the Internet which may accommodate many different communications media and protocols.

In some embodiments a record keeper operates a central server which interacts with clients . In some embodiments a third party may manage the server which may include providing the hardware communications and service to the server . The server can be implemented on one or more server class computers that have sufficient memory data storage and processing power and that run a server class operating system e.g. SUN Solaris Linux Microsoft Windows 2000 or other such operating system . Other types of system hardware and software than that described here could also be used depending on the capacity of the device and the number of users and the amount of data received. For example the server may be part of a server farm or server network which is a logical group of one or more servers. As another example there could be multiple servers that may be associated or connected with each other or multiple servers could operate independently but with shared data. As is typical in large scale systems application software could be implemented in components with different components running on different server computers on the same server on the clients or some combination.

Referring to in one embodiment a server includes a communication module a security module and a data storage module . The communication module is the interface for communication with clients and external systems not shown involving the transfer of files and data. In some embodiments the communication module such as a web server is the interface for communication with clients involving HTTP S requests and responses Java messages SMTP messages POP3 messages instant messages as well as other electronic messages. In some instances messages may be transferred from the client to the server from the server to the client or both. The communication module can be implemented as software running on one or more servers or may be implemented as a stand alone server . In some embodiments the communication module can provide an interface to client applications so that for example a user can send and receive e mail instant messages HTML files and so forth.

In instances where the client is being operated by a participant communications received by the communications module may include instructions to grant another person such as a dependent or agent who is not yet identified in the server access to a subset of the personal information attributed to the participant . Examples of personal information to which the dependent may be granted access to include financial information beneficiary information or healthcare information.

Once communications from the client have been received the communication module communicates with the security module which provides the main programming logic for the operation of the system . In one embodiment the security module is implemented as one or more application server programs e.g. Internet Information Server from Microsoft Corporation WebSphere from International Business Machines Corporation or other such applications running on a server class computer which may be the same or different computer as the communication module . The security module receives data from the participant via a client and the communication module regarding access privileges of a dependent to personal information of the participant . The security module may also receive requests for data stored in a data storage module such as lists of available plans definitions user accounts etc. from participants or dependents via a client and the communication module . The data contained within the data storage modules may also be used by the security module to facilitate the administration of one or more employee benefit programs. The employee benefit programs may be human resources programs defined contribution programs defined benefits programs workplace savings programs medical savings programs payroll programs or any combinations thereof.

The security module includes several functional sub modules to complete transactions between clients and the system including a content module for assembling and displaying information an authentication module for managing user authentication and access a business logic module for determining a subset of the personal information to which the dependent s or agent s will have access an application administration module for managing application procedures and logic a data publishing module for pushing data via the communication module to external systems or clients and a data querying and update module for requesting receiving and updating data in the data storage module .

In some embodiments the content module reads static HTML stored in files on the security server . In other embodiments it requests data via the data query and update module from a data storage module and combines the data with static content on the file system or within the data storage module to produce completed HTML pages which in turn are sent to the client via the communication module . The HTML pages may in some cases include data or text directed to a specific user regarding a specific plan or other context dependent data. In some embodiments the compilation of HTML code uses the Active Server Page ASP technology from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. to combine static HTML and data or context specific data into one or more HTML pages prior to being sent to the client . In some embodiments JAVA JavaScript XML or other like programming languages can be used to generate HTML code or present data text and or graphics to a user. In one embodiment the HTML pages include forms which are presented to a user on the client . The forms allow the user to input data select from a series of options and provide other responses to text or directions presented on the page.

The authentication module of the security module authenticates and confirms the identity of the users. The authentication module receives user authentication information from the client . This user authentication information may be a username a password a social security number an employee number a client number biometric information or any combination thereof. Typically the client provides credentials to the communication module which are then passed to the authentication module . The authentication module then may check the credentials against but not limited to any of the following a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol directory a Unix password file or a custom built user database. If the client s credentials are accepted as valid the client is considered authenticated and the communication module may allow the client access via the pages provided by content module to personal information stored on the data storage modules . If the client s credentials are not accepted as valid he or she may be prompted to present the credentials again or the client may be redirected to a forgotten password page. Alternatively the client may be locked out of accessing the server for a predetermined time or until he or she calls a customer service representative to reset his or her password.

The business logic module of the security module processes the rules restricting a dependent s access to a participant s personal information stored in the data storage modules . Each time the dependent accesses his or her account the business logic module validates the dependent s eligibility for access to the participant s personal information. An exemplary rule to manage or determine dependent eligibility is allowing a dependent child upon reaching the working age set by state child labor laws to begin contributing to a 401 k opened in his or her name. Validating eligibility each time the dependent accesses their account allows the business logic module to provide or restrict functionality related to the participant s personal information for each session. The restrictions placed on the personal information may be based on date restrictions applied to the personal information or alternatively based on data type restrictions applied to the personal information.

An exemplary date restriction may be not allowing the minor to view the 401 k savings contributions until he or she has reached the minimum legal employable age in his or her state. Consider the day before the minor s sixteenth birthday. Being a under the working age the business logic module will not allow the dependent access to the 401 k savings plan because they do not meet the eligibility requirements set forth by the access restrictions and thus cannot make contributions to the plan. On the day of his or her sixteenth birthday as the dependent accesses the system the business logic module validates the dependent s eligibility and determines that the dependent is now able to access the 401 k savings plan information. Alternatively a dependent may lose access to certain functionality because a certain date has passed e.g. the dependent has reached age 19 and can no longer be considered a dependent as is the case with Military Dependency and Indemnity Compensation DIC if the dependent is not a student .

Whereas date restrictions operate as temporal constraints a data type restriction may preclude anyone other than the plan participant from viewing specific types of data e.g. contributions to a personal stock purchasing plan. The data type restrictions may also be based on the relationship between the participant and the dependent agent. Additionally in some embodiments operative restrictions may be provided which define the functions within the business logic module that are available to the dependent agent. As with data type restrictions these operative restrictions may also be based on the relationship between the participant and the dependent agent. Examples of operative instructions for example may include not allowing an attorney to view a participant s 401 k contributions or a stockbroker to view the participant s outstanding medical claims because in both scenarios the access requested by the agent is not appropriate given the duties they would generally perform. In some cases however such as an invalid or minor child agents or attorneys may be given fully access through legal proceedings testamentary documents or other means. Combinations of the various types of the data restrictions may be employed to facilitate more comprehensive business rules or certain statutory requirements such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA .

The data publishing module of the security module provides the data stored within the data storage module to external applications. In one version of the embodiment the data publishing module provides access to or publishes the stored data using web services. The Web services provide the data in an XML format available via HTTP requests email requests or as one or more data feeds placed in a repository such as a File Transfer Protocol FTP server. Other versions contemplate more traditional feed methods such as comma or tab delimited text formats also which may be made available through web services email and or FTP.

The data query and update module allows the security server to request and update information from the data storage module . The data query and update module may be an ODBC driver where the security server is implemented using an application server by Microsoft or a JDBC driver where the security server is implemented using Java technologies for communicating with a data storage module as described below. Alternatively the data query and update module may include a messaging layer which abstracts the underlying database exposing a generic querying and updating structure to the security module . Additionally a transactional queuing system such as MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing may provide for asynchronous interfacing capabilities to a backend data store. Those skilled in the art can implement best practices such as connection pooling session persistence and database load balancing when implementing the data query and update module and such implementations are contemplated within the spirit of the invention.

As stated previously the server also includes a data storage module for storing data related to the plan participant and any dependents or agents of the participant. For instance the data storage module may store data relating to attributes of the plans participant data such as the personal information described above dependent data auditing data such as server availability and web traffic information and stored content for the content module . Upon request the data storage module also provides data to the security module and manages data updates as instructed by the security module . Additionally the data storage module holds information such as participant information dependant information and auditing information as described above that the data publishing module makes accessible to external systems. Examples of the data storage module include the MySQL Database Server by MySQL AB of Uppsala Sweden the SQLServer database system of Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and the Oracle Database Server offered by Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif.

The participant during the session requests his personal information from the server . The server then processes auditing rules to record which user is attempting to access the user s personal information at the time of access as well as other transactional data such as session logging or persistence. Additionally the server may process rules determining if the participant has the proper authority to access to his information. Typically a participant accessing his own information will not be limited to what data he can access however this step becomes pertinent when a dependent or agent is requesting access. After processing the appropriate rules e.g. auditing access limitations etc. the server establishes a connection to the data storage modules e.g. a Human Resources database and or contribution database together containing the personal information. The data storage modules may in turn process rules such as auditing and access restrictions and if the return of the personal information is allowed they send the data to the server . The server then returns the personal information to the participant .

Once the participant has obtained access the participant provides the server via the software application with the identity of a second person that person being a dependent or agent of the participant having some benefits relationship to the participant who has not been previously identified as a use of the system. The participant can provide the identity through several customer service channels. In some embodiments the participant fills out an HTML form or other means of interaction such as an ActiveX component or Java applet on the website indicating the second person s first and last name his or her relationship to the participant and other identification data such as a social security number date of birth and or address. In some embodiments only the second person s social security number is necessary. One skilled in the art would understand that any single piece of information or combination of information that would generally uniquely indicate the identity of a person would be applicable when providing the server with the second person s identity. Another channel through which the participant may provide the identity of the second person is a telephonic communication with the participant . The participant may provide the dependent agent s identity through an interactive voice menu or to a customer service representative. The identity information may also be provided through a combination of methods including email or an online chat service. In some embodiments providing the second person s identity establishes the second person as a user in the system. By establishing the second person as a user in the system the system creates a personal page for the second person as a starting page when he or she accesses the system. In these embodiments the personal page is accessible in the same manner as the page that the participant uses to access his or her own personal information e.g. by providing authentication information such as a username and password or PIN. Additionally functionality allowing the dependent to change their password PIN or to retrieve it from the system is provided. It should be noted that though the participant is providing the identity information of the second person in some embodiments the sponsoring participant is restricted from using the new dependent login credentials to log in as the dependent. This is to prevent the participant from pretending to be the dependent and logging in using the dependent s information. In some embodiments preventing the participant from pretending to be the dependent includes sending an email to the dependent s email address to activate the login. In some embodiment this can include sending the dependent a PIN in a postal mailing to unlock the login.

Because the participant is responsible for providing the dependent information verification and reconciliation the dependent data may be unreliable. The participant may have incorrect information may not know certain information or intentionally or unintentionally enter incorrect information. One exception is when the system identifies the dependent as a participant already identified to the system. In this scenario the system leverages the dependent s existing account to define which functionality outside of dependent functions are available to the dependent and verifies information provided by the sponsor participant .

There are several scenarios where dependents are also participants in the system. One example is where a husband and wife both work for the same company each having enrolled individually in a health or benefits plan before they were married. In this scenario the system is able to correlate the dependent records to a pre existing participant record. In effect the system is able to determine that the dependent wife of John Doe is in fact Jane Doe a participant herself. An exemplary method of correlating the two is by having a foreign key relationship between the social security number in a dependent table and the social security number in a participant table. In these embodiments the system also maintains a relationship between the dependent to the sponsoring participant e.g. the husband may still be the sponsor participant of his wife even if she is also identified as a participant in the system. Consequently any children of the husband and wife are considered dependents of both participants. In embodiments where the dependent is also a participant once his or her identity information is provided to the system additional information necessary to create a user in the system may not need to be provided as it already existed when the dependent was first identified to the system as a participant . Instead a notification of an additional dependent status is communicated to the dependent. In some embodiments this notification is an email sent to the dependent. In other embodiments the notification is a letter sent via postal mail.

After providing the second person s identity the participant provides parameters defining the dependent agent s access privileges to the participant s personal information. As stated above the participant provides the server with information by establishing communications via the software application that resides on the terminal and or on the server . In addition to providing access privileges the relationship between the participant and the dependent agent may also be provided by the participant via the software application. The relationship may in some cases be used to define the access privileges granted to the dependent.

Beneficially the participant may also provide parameters after the initial parameters are provided which modify or revoke the dependent agent s access privileges to the personal information. Such functionality is useful when the relationship between the participant and the dependent agent changes. For example when a participant changes financial advisors the former financial advisor should no longer have access to the participant s retirement account information. The invention therefore allows the participant to revoke the former financial advisor s access to his personal information and grant that same access to a new financial advisor. Additionally access privileges may be modified to allow more or less access to the participant s personal information. For example the participant may not feel comfortable allowing his new financial advisor access to all of his retirement accounts. As the participant gains confidence in the new financial advisor he may wish to modify the advisor s access. At first the advisor may only be able to access only the participant s 401 k information. Eventually as the advisor proves himself competent the participant may modify the advisor s access such that the advisor may access all of the participant s retirement accounts.

Once the participant is allowed access the server receives the identity of a second person from the participant where the second person is a dependent or agent of the participant and previously unknown to the system. The server may receive the identity of the dependent agent through several channels as described above.

After the server receives the dependent agent s identity parameters defining the dependent agent s access privileges to the participant s personal information are received . The server receives the dependent agent s privileges much in the same manner as the participant was authenticated the participant responds to a series of questions or input fields provided by the server via the software application. In addition to receiving the access privileges in some embodiments of the aspect the relationship between the participant and the dependent agent is also received via the software application and that relationship defines at least in part the access privileges of the dependent agent. Beneficially the server may also receive parameters after the initial parameters are received which modify or revoke the dependent agent s access privileges to the personal information to reflect changes in the participant dependent relationship.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are to be considered in all respects illustrative of the invention rather than limiting.

