---

title: System and method to enforce collaboration rules for timestamps of a collaboration event
abstract: A method to enforce collaboration rules, in one example embodiment, comprises receiving a request to report a collaboration event to a collaboration workflow, receiving a reported time of the collaboration event, determining an origin of the reported time, updating the reported time with a central time service time when the origin of the reported time is not a central time service, and based on the updated reported time, selectively reporting the collaboration event into the collaboration workflow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08145910&OS=08145910&RS=08145910
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08145910
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080229
---
The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Desktop applications may provide a collaboration workflow e.g. users working together on a single document or a set of documents . Relying on the time reported by the user s machine to enforce time sensitive business rules is prone to error because the machine time may be modified by a user thereby disrupting the collaboration workflow. For example a user may modify his machine time in order for the collaboration workflow processor to assign an incorrect time to an event e.g. an event associated with signing of a document .

An example collaboration workflow or an electronic document workflow may be described as a process by which users workflow participants interact with an electronic document by manipulating their respective instances of the document and in some workflows being permitted to view and react to input originated from other participants. One example of a document workflow is a shared review of an electronic document which may be facilitated by a viewer application such as Adobe Acrobat software.

A user interaction with the document that is the subject of a workflow e.g. adding a comment to the document is treated by the associated viewer application as a collaboration event that may become part of the workflow. An example of a collaboration event is submitting form data to a collaboration workflow which is a form distributing workflow. Collaboration events may be automatically added to the workflow and may be made accessible by other workflow participants. An initiator of a collaboration workflow may provide a workflow deadline e.g. a time at which the collaboration workflow should be completed by participants. A workflow may operate such that any collaboration event that occurs after the time designated as a deadline is not entered into the workflow. For example a participant attempting to comment on the document after the deadline would be precluded from using the workflow to share the comments with other participants.

A workflow deadline may be enforced by time stamping each workflow event and entering the event into the workflow only if the time stamp indicates that the event occurred before the deadline has been reached. The time stamp for an event may be generated using local time reported by a participant s computer system. The time reported by a participant s computer system may not always be accurate which may lead to a situation where a time stamp provided by the clock in a participant s computer system indicates that the associated event may be entered into the workflow while the deadline in fact has already passed.

In one embodiment a central time service is utilized to time stamp collaboration workflow events. A central time service may be used advantageously to provide common time reference e.g. in a situation where workflow participants are located in different time zones and may also contribute to ensuring that workflow rules regarding a deadline are enforced regardless of the respective time settings at the participant s machines. In operation according to one example embodiment when a network connection is available to a workflow participant a collaboration event is time stamped with a central time service time obtained from the central time service provided within the network. If the network connection is not available to a participant at the time of a collaboration event the event is time stamped with the local machine time. Once the network connection becomes available the local machine time is updated with the central time service time. Thereafter the event is entered into the collaboration workflow if the deadline has not passed.

This disclosure is related to a system and method to enforce collaboration rules by providing a central time service time to a collaboration workflow. The system and method to enforce collaboration rules may facilitate enforcing time rules established for the collaboration workflow based on the time provided by a central time service. The central time service as used within the context of this disclosure is a time service providing current time to the participants of the collaboration workflow.

In one example embodiment the collaboration workflow may involve participants located anywhere on the Internet. In case of the Internet based collaboration workflow the collaboration rules may be enforced based on the time provided by an Internet central time service.

In some other example embodiments the collaboration workflow participation may be limited to machines located within a Local Area Network LAN or a Wide Area Network WAN . In case of LAN or WAN based collaboration workflows collaboration rules may be enforced based on the time provided by a LAN central time service or a WAN central time service respectively.

A determination of whether the collaboration workflow processor enforces collaboration rules based on the Internet central time service the LAN central time service or WAN central time service may be established at the time of the origination of the collaboration workflow.

The system and method to enforce collaboration rules by providing a central time service to a collaboration workflow permits to enforce the collaboration rules even when the central time service is unavailable due to the participant s machine being disconnected from its collaboration workflow network e.g. Internet LAN or WAN . When a participant s machine is disconnected from the network a collaboration event caused by the participant may be time stamped using the time reported by the participant s machine. When the participant s machine is connected to its collaboration workflow network the time reported to the collaboration workflow processor may be updated with a central time service time. The central time service time may be obtained by querying the central time service. Example system and method to enforce collaboration rules may be implemented in the context of a network environment and may be discussed with reference to .

The participant machine may host a machine time service that may be used to time stamp events associated with a desktop application . Events may be processed by a collaboration workflow processor that may be provided with the desktop application . The participant machine may host a machine time service and a desktop application configured to include a collaboration workflow processor . The participant machine may host a machine time service and a desktop application configured to include a collaboration workflow processor .

The machine time services and may be configured to provide current time to a collaboration workflow when a central time service of the collaboration workflow is temporarily unavailable. For example when the participant machine is configured as part of a LAN but is temporarily disconnected from the LAN any collaboration events that take place at the participant machine during that time are time stamped utilizing the machine time services . Upon connecting to the central time service provided within the LAN the time stamp provided by the machine time service may be updated with the central time service time. The desktop applications and in one embodiment may be a content viewing application such as Adobe Acrobat software.

As shown in the participant machines and may be interconnected with the LAN the Internet and the WAN . The LAN and the WAN may be connected to the Internet and each other. Even though the LAN and WAN are illustrated as stand alone networks they may be parts of the Internet . Furthermore the LAN may be a part of WAN and the WAN itself may be a part of the Internet .

The LAN is a computer network covering a small geographic area like a home office or group of buildings e.g. a school . The Internet is a worldwide publicly accessible series of interconnected computer networks that transmit data by packet switching using the standard Internet Protocol.

The WAN is a computer network that may cover a broad area such as any network whose communications links cross metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The WAN is a network that may use routers and public communications links. The WAN may be used to connect LANs e.g. the LAN and other types of networks together so that users and machines in one location may communicate with users and machines in other locations. Even though the LAN and the WAN are shown connected to the Internet in the network environment they may in some embodiments be disconnected temporarily or permanently from the Internet .

The LAN the Internet and the WAN may each include a database. The databases and residing within the LAN the Internet and the WAN may store their respective data records related to collaboration workflows collaboration events collaboration rules and invitations sent to participants of collaboration workflows. For example the databases and may include data related to the origin of the reported time based on connection data indicative of whether the central time service was available when the collaboration event occurred.

The database may be located within a LAN environment for a LAN based collaboration workflow. In case of a LAN based collaboration workflow the database may only be accessible to LAN participants. Similarly the database may be located within a WAN environment for a WAN based collaboration workflow.

In case of a WAN based collaboration workflow the database may only be accessible to WAN participants. In the case of an Internet based collaboration workflow the database may be accessible to the participants of the Internet based collaboration workflow. The databases and may receive write and or read requests and send responses to their respective LAN Internet and WAN based collaboration workflows.

The databases and in some example embodiments may be configured as a structured collection of records or data that are stored in a computer system and may be queried by a computer program such as the desktop application . The records retrieved in response to queries are information that can be used to make decisions with respect to the collaboration rules. The databases and may include collaboration records. An example data record of the databases and is described with reference to .

The LAN the Internet and the WAN each may include a central time service i.e. a LAN central time service an Internet central time service and a WAN central time service to serve central time service time to the participants of their respective collaboration workflows. Thus the LAN central time service the Internet central time service and the WAN central time service may be configured to respond to time requests. Thus when a participant connects to his collaboration network the collaboration workflow may send a time request to its respective time service. The central time services and may be set up by their respective network administrators.

In some example embodiments the type of a central time service utilized by a collaboration workflow is determined upon its initiation. Thus a LAN based collaboration workflow may utilize the LAN central time service . Similarly a WAN based collaboration workflow may utilize the WAN central service .

The Internet central time service may be configured to respond to requests for the central time service time from the Internet based collaboration workflow. For example the United States Naval Observatory Network Time Protocol NTP may be utilized to provide central time service time. The NTP may be accessible by collaboration workflow processors and running on the respective participant machines and . The collaboration workflow processors and may be configured to utilize various other central time services. One embodiment of a collaboration workflow processor may be described with reference to .

As shown in in some example embodiments the collaboration workflow processor may include a communication module a processing module an enforcing module a time query module an updating module a collaboration tracking module a participation module and an event reporting module .

The time query module may be configured to receive the time reported by a central time service. Depending on the specifics of collaboration workflow a central time service utilized by the collaboration workflow processor may be the LAN central time service the Internet central time service or the WAN central time service . When the central time service is unavailable the communication module may receive time reported by the machine time service .

The processing module may be configured to determine whether the reported time is reported by the machine time service or by a central time service. If the processing module determines that reported time is the collaboration workflow machine time the processing module may request that the time query module query the respective central time service as soon as the central time service becomes available. Once the time query module is able to query the respective central time service the updating module may update the reported time.

The enforcing module may be configured to enforce the collaboration rules by selectively reporting collaboration events to the collaboration workflow based on the time reported by the central time service which may be reflected in a time stamp associated with the collaboration event.

In one example embodiment the time query module may be configured to query a database e.g. the database illustrated in with a connection flag . A connection flag illustrated in as part of a collaboration record is maintained in order to provide an indication of whether the time reported for a collaboration event is provided by a local or a central time service. If the processing module determines that the reported time is local e.g. the time service used to time stamp the collaboration event is the participant machine time an associated central time service may be queried by the time query module . The central time service time thus obtained by the time query module is used to update the reported time. Updating the reported time may involve utilizing a query language to replace the value in a record representing the reported time with the value of the central time service time.

In one example embodiment the updating may include utilizing the time query module to query a central time service and utilizing the processing module to compare the central time service time to the local machine time. Based on the comparison a time difference between the central time service time and the local machine time may be established. The processing module may further determine whether the central time service time and the local machine time are substantially similar by comparing the time difference to a predetermined threshold. If the local machine time and the central time service time are substantially similar the reported time is not updated with the central time service time. If on the other hands the local machine time and the central time service time are not substantially similar the reported time is updated with the central time service time.

In one example embodiment the updating module may be configured to update the reported time with the central time service time when the communication module determines that an associated connection flag is set to local. The collaboration tracking module may be configured to track collaboration events entered into the collaboration workflow and to report the collaboration events to the enforcing module .

The participation module may be configured to invite other users to join the collaboration workflow e.g. to review a document related to a product or performance . The invitations to participate in the collaboration workflow may be distributed for example via a website e mail document management system or a network share drive. Other distribution channels may also be utilized. For example a user that may be referred to as the initiator of the collaboration workflow may start a shared review by sharing a document in one of the above mentioned ways with other users.

The event reporting module may be configured to report a collaboration workflow event to the processing module . The event reporting module may also be configured to cooperate with the enforcing module or be configured as a part of the enforcing module . Example operations performed by various modules of the collaboration workflow processor may be described with reference to .

As shown in at operation the communication module of the collaboration workflow processor may receive a request to enter a collaboration event in a collaboration workflow. The collaboration workflow within the context of this disclosure may be represented by any sort of collaboration on an electronic document such as an instance of Adobe Acrobat .

An example collaboration workflow may include a structured recursive process where two or more people work together toward a common goal by sharing knowledge learning and building consensus over an electronic network. A collaboration workflow may not require a leading participant. For example a collaboration workflow may include two or more people playing a network game on the Internet. Publishing of an event to a collaboration workflow may include posting a comment or executing a command. The method and system to enforce collaboration rules may be utilized in a scenario where a timeframe of events is important.

At operation the communication module of collaboration workflow processor may receive a reported time of the collaboration event. The reported time may be either local time provided by the machine time service or the time provided by the central time service. The central time service permits the collaboration workflow processor to ensure that users adhere to the collaboration rules based on time.

For example if the collaboration rules dictate that all modifications to a document shall cease after a predetermined time any modifications made thereafter may be rejected. As already mentioned above relying only on a participant s machine s local time in enforcing the collaboration rules may provide the participant with an opportunity to render time events e.g. deadlines unenforceable by modifying the machine s local time. Such modification may disrupt the collaboration process. Furthermore other users may be led to believe that an event e.g. signing a document happened at the time provided by the participant s machine which may be incorrect.

Thus the system and method to enforce collaboration rules permits using a central time service such as the LAN central time service in to time stamp events and related updates thereby avoiding an exclusive use of participant machine s local time. Since a central time service in one embodiment does not allow modifications by participants of a collaboration workflow with a possible exception of an administrator a participant is not able to misinform the collaboration workflow processor and other participants by modifying his machine s time.

At operation the processing module may determine the time service utilized to establish the time of collaboration events. For example if the collaboration workflow is Internet based the processing module may determine that the Internet central time service was used to time stamp a collaboration event.

At decision block the processing module may determine whether or not the reported time for the collaboration event is a central time service time. In some example embodiments Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP a protocol for exchanging Extensible Markup Language XML based messages over machine networks using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP may be utilized by the collaboration workflow processor to receive the central time service time from a central time service such as the Internet central time service illustrated in . An example central time service may make its Application Programming Interface API available to web services utilizing SOAP to process requests for the central time by the collaboration workflow.

In one embodiment the collaboration workflow processor may utilize SOAP to send an HTTP request to the central time service such as the Internet central time service in . The Internet central time service may respond by providing Greenwich Mean Time GMT . The code sending the request may be implemented in various technologies including ASP.NET and VBScript. Sample VBScript implementation is shown below.

If it is determined at decision block that the time service reported is not a central time service time the processing module may instruct the time query module to query the central time service in order to determine the central time service time at operation . At operation the updating module may update the reported time with the central time service time as described above with reference to the updating module of the workflow collaboration processor .

At operation the enforcing module may enforce the collaboration rules based on the updated time of the collaboration event. If on the other hand it is determined at decision block that the time service used by the collaboration event is the central time service time the method may proceed to enforce the collaboration rules at operation . Further details of a method to enforce collaboration rules may be described with reference to and

As shown in at operation the participation module may distribute to participants invitations to participate in a collaboration workflow. For example a shared review may be initiated by inviting a number of reviewers to contribute to the review of a document. The reviewers may then collaborate by using commenting and markup tools and add comments to the document. The initiator of the review workflow may specify a deadline by which the reviewers are to complete entering their comments. The method to enforce collaboration rules may be utilized advantageously to enforce a rule that once the deadline has expired no reviewer may add or publish comments to the document. In some embodiments a collaboration process may be configured such that a reviewer may be permitted to submit comments late upon approval of the document owner or the collaboration workflow originator.

At operation the collaboration tracking module illustrated in may establish rules of collaboration based on time e.g. a deadline . At operation the processing module may receive a request to enter a collaboration event and at operation the communication module may receive the reported time of the collaboration event.

At operation the processing module may determine the source of the reported time. If at decision block it is determined that the reported time is provided by the central time service the method proceeds to decision block . At decision block it may be determined based on the reported time whether the time to enter the collaboration event into the collaboration workflow has expired. If it is determined at decision block that the time to enter the collaboration event has not expired the collaboration event may be entered into the collaboration workflow.

If on the other hand it is determined at decision block that the time of the collaboration event is the participant machine time the method may proceed to operation and utilize the time query module to query the central time service until the central time service provides the current time.

Once the central time service time is obtained by the time query module the updating module may update the reported time with the central time service time at decision block . Then at decision block it may be determined whether the time to enter the collaboration event has expired based on the updated reported time. If it is determined that that the time to enter the collaboration event has not expired at operation the collaboration tracking module of may enter the collaboration event into the collaboration workflow. If on the other hand it is determined at operation that the time has expired the event is not entered into the collaboration workflow in operation . In one embodiment a collaboration event may be entered into the collaboration workflow by adding a collaboration record into a designated workflow events repository e.g. a database table in the database of . An example collaboration record may be described with reference to .

The collaboration record may be stored in the database or depending on the respective collaboration workflow. As shown in the example collaboration record may comprise fields through .

A COLLABORATION EVENT TYPE field may be utilized to store a value representing the type of the collaboration event e.g. review . An INVITATION MODE field may be utilized to store a value representing a way in which the invitations to participate in the collaboration workflow are distributed e.g. email . An EXPIRY TIME field may be utilized to store a value representing a time by which collaboration events may be entered. A REPORTED TIME field may be utilized to store the time of the collaboration event as reported to the collaboration workflow. If the time is reported by the machine time service the reported time may differ from the updated time based on the time provided by the central time service.

An UPDATED TIME field may be utilized to store the updated time as updated by the updating module . The UPDATED TIME is populated when it is determined that the REPORTED TIME field is reported by the machine time service . A CONNECTION FLAG field may be utilized to store information such as whether the reported is provided by a participant machine e.g. the participant machine illustrated in or by an associated central time service e.g. the WAN central time service illustrated in .

While some embodiments of method and system to enforce collaboration rules include updating the reported time with the central time service time whenever the central time service becomes available other embodiments may be implemented and utilized. For example in an alternative embodiment a collaboration event may be first time stamped utilizing local time reported by the participant s machine. The local time may then be compared to the time reported by the central time service. The time stamp may be updated with the time reported by the central time service only if the difference between the time reported by the participant machine and the time reported by the central time service differs by more than a predetermined threshold.

The example machine system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The machine system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the machine system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such medium may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a machine in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

