---

title: Unstructured data integration with a data warehouse
abstract: Techniques for bridging data from business support units, e.g., call centers and marketing operations, with a data warehouse to augment and enrich pre-existing customer information. Unstructured data is received with incomplete integration information. A data key is created from the unstructured data, and the unstructured data is integrated with the structured data in a data warehouse based on the data key. Unstructured data can assume different forms of data, including recorded audio data, facial image data, and iris image data. At least one customer identifier is extracted from the unstructured data by data mining. A data key is subsequently created from the at least one customer identifier. Incomplete integration may include partial integration information or may not include any integration information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290951&OS=08290951&RS=08290951
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08290951
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080710
---
Aspects of the invention generally relate to bridging data from business support units with a data warehouse to augment and enrich pre existing customer information. In particular unstructured data is integrated with structured data.

Data integration progresses at a different pace at a corporate level depending on the business units and industry. Industries that are intensive data and information users e.g. financial services and retail businesses have processes and methods in place to ensure that information from a central data repository data warehouse is made available to different point of sale business support units and branches.

The availability of information from a data warehouse often occurs as a one way flow from the data warehouse to the end points where information is needed to service customers. The one way end point can be a point of sale terminal branches business support unit s data mart and the like.

The converse of a one way movement of data is a two way movement of data which is typically not supported by the prior art. Data that flows from a data warehouse to a business support unit for example remains locked in the business support unit. All the while new customer interactions and data are recorded captured and stored in local servers without the capability or process in place to bring this enriched data contained in a business support unit back to the data warehouse the round trip of the data .

Data integration in the context of call center operations and systems and in accordance with prior art is typically confined to efforts to bring enterprise level data to a localized server in a call center in order to create a unified view of a customer relationship for agents who handle calls. This unified view starts as a data extract or as a direct data feed from a central data repository to individual servers or clusters of servers in a call center.

As another example one way data flow may occur in banking centers. Typically banking center system platforms query Systems of Records SOR via Application Programming Interface API or via direct query of stored customer data when a customer is authenticated by a teller. The data flows from the SOR to the teller screen to enable customer servicing. A transaction generates structured data that flow back to the SOR and data warehouse. However unstructured data e.g. conversations and images captured typically do not flow back to the SOR and data warehouse.

Aspects of the invention address one or more of the issues mentioned above by disclosing methods computer readable media and apparatuses for bridging data from business support units e.g. call centers and marketing operations with a data warehouse to augment and enrich pre existing customer information. Bridged data may include audio and image data.

With another aspect of the invention unstructured data is received with incomplete integration information. A data key is created from the unstructured data and the unstructured data is integrated with the structured data in a data warehouse based on the data key. Unstructured data can assume different forms of data including recorded audio data facial image data and iris image data.

With another aspect of the invention at least one customer identifier is extracted from the unstructured data by data mining. A data key is subsequently created from the at least one customer identifier.

With another aspect of the invention only partial integration information is known. The partial integration information is merged with at least one customer identifier to obtain a data key. The created data key is utilized to integrate the unstructured data with the structured data.

With another aspect of the invention none of the integration information is known. At least one customer identifier which is obtained from data mining of unstructured data is matched in order create a data key. The created data key is utilized to integrate the unstructured data with the structured data.

Aspects of the invention may be provided in a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the process steps described herein.

These and other aspects of the invention are discussed in greater detail throughout this disclosure including the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention methods computer readable media and apparatuses are disclosed in which data is bridged from business support units e.g. call centers and marketing operations with a data warehouse to augment and enrich pre existing customer information. Bridged data may include audio data image data category of call or customer interaction e.g. account servicing account closure and complaints and contextual analysis keywords. Unstructured data may be received with incomplete integration information. A data key is created from the unstructured data and the unstructured data is integrated with the structured data in a data warehouse based on the data key. Unstructured data can assume different forms of data including recorded audio data facial image data and iris image data.

Even though business entities can exchange structured data with business support units freely aspects of the invention are directed to unstructured data so that unstructured data can be bridged with the structured environment. Data can be destroyed in addition to being locked away in business support units. For example operational processes may retain only a certain amount of data before purging thus data may not flow back to the data warehouse environment

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

With reference to the computing system environment may include a computing device wherein the processes discussed herein may be implemented. The computing device may have a processor for controlling overall operation of the computing device and its associated components including RAM ROM communications module and memory . Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise a combination of computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by computing device .

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. Modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Computing system environment may also include optical scanners not shown . Exemplary usages include scanning and converting paper documents e.g. correspondence receipts and the like to digital files.

Although not shown RAM may include one or more are applications representing the application data stored in RAM memory while the computing device is on and corresponding software applications e.g. software tasks are running on the computing device .

Communications module may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output.

Communications module may include a surface device not shown that interacts with the user through the surface of an ordinary object rather than through a monitor and keyboard. Users can interact with the machine by touching or dragging their fingertips and objects such as paintbrushes across the screen or by setting real world items tagged with special bar code labels on top of it. Communications module may include additional input devices not shown e.g. a closed circuit TV CCTV and surveillance cameras at an automated teller machine ATM to account for iris and facial images.

A surface device is typically a multi touch multi channel device having a horizontal display on a table like form. The surface device typically has a screen that can incorporate multiple touches and thus uses them to navigate multimedia content. The surface device may use fingers electrical properties to detect touch and may further utilize a system of infrared cameras to detect input. Uploading digital files may only require each object e.g. a Bluetooth enabled digital camera to be placed on the surface device. People can physically move around the picture across the screen with their hands or even shrink or enlarge them.

As an example a surface device may include a processor a memory a graphics card a scratch proof spill proof surface a projector and a collection of infrared cameras that are distributed around the surface in order to provide a multi touch multi channel user interface to a user. For example a user may place a driver s license on the surface to identify the user and subsequently place a credit card or check on the surface to provide payment for an item.

Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling computing device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternatively some or all of the computer executable instructions for computing device may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown . Database may provide centralized storage of pre clearance information or trading information for security equities in different jurisdictions.

Computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computing devices such as branch terminals and . The branch computing devices and may be personal computing devices or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . Branch computing device may be a mobile device communicating over wireless carrier channel .

The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment computing device is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter in the communications module . When used in a WAN networking environment the server may include a modem in the communications module or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computing devices may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed and the system can be operated in a client server configuration to permit a user to retrieve web pages from a web based server. Any of various conventional web browsers can be used to display and manipulate data on web pages. The network connections may also provide connectivity to a CCTV or image iris capturing device.

Additionally one or more application programs used by the computing device according to an illustrative embodiment may include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication including for example email short message service SMS and voice input and speech recognition applications.

Embodiments of the invention may include forms of computer readable media. Computer readable media include any available media that can be accessed by a computing device . Computer readable media may comprise storage media and communication media. Storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions object code data structures program modules or other data. Communication media include any information delivery media and typically embody data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism.

Although not required one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method a data processing system or as a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions. For example a computer readable medium storing instructions to cause a processor to perform steps of a method in accordance with aspects of the invention is contemplated. For example aspects of the method steps disclosed herein may be executed on a processor on a computing device . Such a processor may execute computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium.

Referring to an illustrative system for implementing methods according to the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one of communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server may be used to process the instructions received from and the transactions entered into by one or more participants.

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links and the like. Connectivity may also be supported to a CCTV or image iris capturing device.

As understood by those skilled in the art the steps that follow in the Figures may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

In the discussion herein data is categorized as either structured data or unstructured data. Unstructured data is defined as data that cannot be categorized or arranged in a logical manner. For example mapping everyday conversations between a customer and a teller is unstructured because the dialogue is by nature unstructured. Similarly image data e.g. scanned facial data or scanned eye iris information is considered as unstructured data. However aligning customer name with customer account number is an example of structured data.

Automatic number identification ANI is a feature of telephony intelligent network services that permits subscribers to display or capture the telephone numbers of calling parties. In the United States it is part of Inward Wide Area Telephone Service WATS . The ANI service was created by AT T for internal long distance billing purposes and is not related to newer caller ID services. Inward WATS is typically purchased by customers so that other telephone users for example prospective customers can call the number toll free. The customer is issued a distinctive toll free telephone number beginning with a special area code such as or more recently or . Subscribers to these numbers are typically called Inward WATS subscribers.

A related piece of information conveyed to the Inward WATS subscriber is the Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS the number that the caller dialed when accessing the service. With the information the service provider can have several toll free numbers directed to the same call center and provide unique service based on the number dialed. DNIS can also be used to identify other call routing information. For example the WATS service can be configured to send a specific DNIS number that is assigned to callers from geographic regions based on city area code state or country.

Computer telephony integration CTI is technology that allows interactions on a telephone and a computer to be integrated or co coordinated. As contact channels have expanded from voice to include email web and fax the definition of CTI has expanded to include the integration of all customer contact channels voice email web fax and the like with computer systems.

Data integration is the process of combining data residing at different sources and providing the user with a unified view of these data. This process emerges in a variety of situations both commercial when two similar companies need to merge their databases and scientific combining research results from different bioinformatics repositories . Data integration appears with increasing frequency as the volume and the need to share existing data explodes. It has been the focus of extensive theoretical work and numerous open problems remain to be solved. In management practice data integration is frequently called Enterprise Information Integration.

Data mart is a subset of an organizational data store usually oriented to a specific purpose or major data subject that may be distributed to support business needs. Data marts are analytical data stores designed to focus on specific business functions for a specific community within an organization. Data marts are often derived from subsets of data in a data warehouse although in the bottom up data warehouse design methodology the data warehouse is created from the union of organizational data marts.

A data warehouse is a centralized repository of electronic data available to users in an enterprise capacity. The types of data included in a data warehouse are determined by the individual business unit s needs and generally contain sufficient information to service the needs of Marketing Risk Operations Reporting and Analysis groups.

System bridges source data from business support units and distribution channels e.g. call centers banking centers marketing operations with a data warehouse to augment and enrich pre existing customer information. The emergence of web technologies e.g. blogs wikis VoiP wireless communication device usages and broad adoption of biometrics as a form of identification creates a convergence of polymorphic data sources with high intrinsic value. In order to data mine this emerging class of data often comprising unstructured data the data must first be brought into a normalized environment that can enable the mapping of information with the appropriate individuals. Aspects of the invention focus on two aspects of bridging the emerging class of data 

The emergence of a new class of data unstructured data provides an opportunity for companies and analysts to build entirely new and unique information management processes to data mine the information.

Spoken conversation offers a rich vein of insights valuable to businesses. During the course of a business day call centers often receive thousands of calls from bank customers and prospective customers with varied business needs.

The proliferation of user generated web content as a result of Web . is creating a rich venue of information generated by customers prospects and competitors. The user generated information takes many forms by way of wiki s blogs interactive web pages personal profiles on social networks and so forth. Data mining this source of unstructured information often requires the building of a data bridge that can marry the content to the customer prospect competitor to a data warehouse.

With an aspect of the invention capabilities in the online banking space may be leveraged to enable the integration of unstructured web data with the data warehouse. With online banking and mobile banking as a base capability other forms of data bridging methods can be applied to enable data integration.

The prevalent and ubiquitous use of emails and instant messaging also creates opportunities for extracting business insights from these unstructured forms of data. The exchange of electronic communications between customers and associates is a source of rich business insights that would add value to an enterprise data warehouse if the right data bridge is used to integrate the information. Exchanges of emails and instant messages related to customer complaints account opening account maintenance questions general dialogue and so forth can be analyzed holistically at the customer level when integrated in a data warehouse environment.

System may utilize telephony equipment and recording technology to randomly record conversations between business associates and callers for training product improvements and service improvements purposes. The availability of call telephony integration CTI data enables the merging of customer and call statistics with other data sources.

During interactions between customer and agent where no CTI information is available or no customer information is provided other means of customer information extraction exist. For example telephony recording equipment enables system to capture the sound of the conversation. Speech analysis can further identify audio patterns that reflect customer data e.g. account number social security number tax ID number name address and so forth to create a data bridge to integrate call center recordings with the data warehouse.

Video and audio capturing equipment are often deployed at various points within banking center environments for the purposes of deterring criminal activities e.g. at teller stations at the automated teller machine ATM at points of entry and so forth. Moreover captured video images may assist in the authentication of customers for various business activities in order for business associates to provide a more personalized service when interacting with the customers. As described herein e.g. system bridges captured images to a data warehouse in order for analysts to properly associate images to appropriate customers.

Referring to the data warehouse refreshes database with new data in accordance with standard data processing during events and . With standard data processing structured data is stored in database . However as discussed herein system can also store unstructured data in database .

When a business support unit e.g. call center banking center fulfillment operations or e mail instant messaging IM customer service processes a transaction for a customer corresponding to event data is extracted from the warehouse in accordance with customer and account attributes e.g. party identification .

Operational support units of a business may include customer survey centers email marketing and email service units instant messages service units fulfillment centers and call centers.

During events data warehouse customer information is available to a requesting business support unit s data mart. A data mart can assume different forms. For example NICE Systems supports an emotion sensitive software and call monitoring systems for security organizations and corporations. A data mart may support card operations in the credit card and debit card space and may maintain proprietary banking center operations.

A single customer view available at customer point of contact is available at a fulfillment center call center banking center or e mail IM customer service corresponding to events or .

During events customer event and customer information is captured and integrated with the data warehouse from a business support unit data mart. Data may be stored extracted and transformed as described herein.

System supports the linkage or bridging of data contained in the data warehouse with data contained in a call center distribution channels and other business support units data marts. By bridging unstructured data with stored data in the data warehouse system can unify and integrate every day conversation email interaction and instant messaging between customers and service agents with structured data that is stored in the data warehouse.

With an aspect of the invention analysts may have the capability to unlock the intrinsic business value of dialogue with customers by marrying this information to more readily available data available on the data warehouse. For example speech and text dialogue can be associated with a customer profile transaction history product ownership and prior marketing contact history data to create a more complete view of a customer. Also the facial image or iris image of a customer may be captured during a visit to a banking center and may be associated with the visit event.

With an aspect of the invention integration of data is provided by gathering information at the source voice images transaction and the like with an identifiable data key to assign to the appropriate record in a data warehouse environment. Process supports the option of utilizing several data keys independently or in association with other data keys in order to build a high level of confidence during the matching process. Different data elements e.g. social security number SSN name address account number telephone number fabricated data keys such as pty id and the like can be useful for data integration purposes.

Aspects of the invention support different forms of unstructured data including biometric data. Biometric data may span different data to identify a customer. For example travelers who board at an airport must pass screening stations where several forms of identification are inspected including iris scanning voice recognition and the like. In addition certain security systems control access levels with biometrics technology fingerprint palm print facial recognition DNA and the like .

Process may utilize voice recordings and images captured as data bridges where appropriate. For example conversations recorded in a call center can be measured to quantify the amplitude and frequency of sound waves of a customer voice. The specific measurements can be used to map unstructured information to the customer data in a data warehouse environment each time a customer contacts a call center to request account services. According to an aspect of the invention a data key can be created from the characteristics of the recorded voice signal.

Similarly in a banking center environment the images captured via closed circuit monitoring cameras can also provide images of customers as well as iris images. These images may then become the data bridge to which customer interaction and unstructured data captured in a banking center or ATM with a camera can be integrated with other customer information in the data warehouse environment.

Data enrichment may occur in various manners including augmentation of a data repository with new sources of data addition of processed scores and synthetic values through statistical analyses cleansing of pre existing data and creation of new data sources from derived values.

With an aspect of the invention a data integration key is created where unstructured data can be mapped correctly to corresponding structured data. The matching process may rely on data keys available throughout data environments distribution channels and operations center. Data elements such as SSN TIN name address account number telephone number and fabricated data keys pty id may be useful in the data enrichment efforts.

Business support units may have the appropriate technology and equipment to capture customer interaction and events when a bank customer calls to conduct business with a phone agent. The conversation and pertinent customer information are recorded and stored locally within the business support unit s servers.

Process collects unstructured data derived from customer interactions. Examples of the unstructured data include conversations between customers prospects and associates through various channels email instant messages telephone conversations banking center interactions and the like for different purposes survey solicitations direct marketing campaigns collections and fraud prevention .

Once unstructured data is integrated in a data warehouse environment system may analyze the raw data to unlock the business value thus enriching the amount of data and information content at various levels account level customer level household level portfolio level and the like. Various process improvements methods may be used including Six Sigma Total Quality Management and ISO International Organization for Standardization .

With an aspect of the invention different measurements may be used to gauge the effectiveness of integrating unstructured data with structured data in the data warehouse 

Aspects of the invention may utilize currently available technology and data processing to build an infrastructure to support a two way data exchange method between a data warehouse and business support units. Aspects of the invention may improve pre existing data integration methods and may create a secure accurate and replicable data bridge to join data from a data warehouse to data contained in servers located in business support units.

The data bridge may consist of elements readily available and common in a data warehouse environment and business support unit environment including either as standalone all or in combination 

Additionally other methods for extracting some or all of the above referenced data elements can be used to map unstructured data with corresponding customer information. Examples include audio recordings images captured via closed circuit monitoring fingerprint and the like.

Some or all of the data elements may be obtained from customer interactions. Information flowing from the data warehouse to populate servers in the business support units may contain some of this information. For example a party ID and or account number may be associated with a customer record in the call center. A customer image or an iris image captured in a video surveillance camera in a banking center may also function as unique identifiers of an individual thus enabling the mapping of integration of data.

In a call center environment a customer calling to conduct business may need to verify his her identity by revealing one or more of these data elements. Since calls can be recorded in call centers the recordings can be played back to extract the data that would associate a caller to a call and ultimately to a data bridge linking this customer interaction the call to a data warehouse.

Referring to in step the data warehouse refreshes with updated data and new sources. In the following scenario system supports a call center by relating computer telephony integration CTI information from a call with structured data in the data warehouse.

In step data warehouse data key elements customer identifies including name pty id SSN TIN address phone number are constructed for each customer and passed to business support units servers. In step data key elements are uploaded to local servers to construct CTI information to map a customer to a phone number name SSN address party id and the like. If possible a call is associated with a known CTI at the time that the customer provides a positive identification. In step recorded interactions audio and or video are uploaded to the local data mart server.

In step the CTI information is associated with the contact event and stored in a local server for loading into a centralized call library or interaction library keyed by the CTI information for each customer call interaction.

In step vendor software that is housed in a central library or central server processes each recorded interaction to create a transcript analysis score and identification of a successful phonetic and semantic match.

Steps and represent data bridge to the data warehouse. Data bridge is created from known CTI information by decrypting and associating each event to a customer and corresponding data key SSN name address phone number TIN party id and the like . In the cases where no CTI exists or no valid data key exists step the vendor solutions creates data bridge from the successful matching of phonetic or semantic searches from transcripts to locate name address SSN TIN party id account number and the like.

In step the final ETL Extract Transform and Load process brings data captured in the business support units to the data warehouse after Q A and UAT User Acceptance Testing completes successfully . Data normalization is a standard step in the ETL process and usually refers to the cleansing aspect of data manipulation. For example SSN and TIN are numbers that can be converted into either characters or retain its numeric format. Similarly name address state and the like have varying length. For example CALIFORNIA may be standardized to be all capitals with only 2 characters CA and the word Street may be standardized as either STREET all capitals or St. 

With an aspect of the invention process captures and integrates unstructured data from various sources including 

With the capability to migrate locally available sources of information to the data warehouse the owner of process has a more robust complete and relevant data to generate better insights from analyses more relevant products and services to meet the needs of a broader customer audience and more predictive risk models to help optimize risks. Aspects of the invention augment the data warehouse with more direct sources of customer information and insights via a two way data bridge between data warehouse and business support units data marts.

Flow diagram finds CTI fields that could be used as keys in the matchback of calls to the data warehouse to identify the callers on the data warehouse Party IDs and uses one of the CTI fields or field combinations as key to match with customer account tables on the data warehouse. Also duplicated values may be narrowed down to a single unique value in reference to dedupe .

Aspects of the invention have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the invention.

