---

title: Semantics-based interests in computing environments and systems
abstract: An input situation can be represented by at least a first context variable. Data that includes interest values for multiple context variables can be provided and obtained. The obtained data can include a first data pertaining to the input situation and a second data pertaining to one or more other situations. It can be determined whether the first context variable is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. At least a portion of data pertaining to the situations can be determined to be proximate data when the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. Based on the input situation and the proximate data, an interest value for the first input situation can be determined as a prediction of the interest in the input situation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08175902&OS=08175902&RS=08175902
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08175902
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081223
---
Conceptually a computing system e.g. a computing device a personal computer a laptop a Smartphone a mobile phone can accept information content or data and manipulate it to obtain or determine a result based on a sequence of instructions or a computer program that effectively describes how to process the information. Typically the information used by a computing system is stored in a computer readable memory using a digital or binary form. More complex computing systems can store content including the computer program itself. A computer program may be invariable and or built into for example a computer or computing device as logic circuitry provided on microprocessors or computer chips. Today general purpose computers can have both kinds of programming. A computing system can also have a support system which among other things manages various resources e.g. memory peripheral devices and services e.g. basic functions such as opening files and allows the resources to be shared among multiple programs. One such support system is generally known as an Operating System OS which provides programmers with an interface used to access these resources and services.

Today numerous types of computing devices are available. These computing devices widely range with respect to size cost amount of storage and processing power from the expensive and powerful servers relatively cheaper Personal Computers PC s and laptops to more inexpensive microprocessors or computer chips provided in storage devices automobiles and household electronic appliances.

A popular task for many computing devices is to link people with relevant information. Different computing devices perform such linking in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. Many people for example are accustomed to typing keywords into an Internet search engine to find desirable information. Visitors to an e commerce site are often greeted with ads and recommendations tailored to their preferences. Particular computing devices derive such recommendations from a comparison between the visitor s past purchasing decisions and the purchasing decisions of other users.

The generation of recommendations in this manner can involve the processing of large amounts of user data. Various techniques have been used to optimize such processing. Some computing devices use fixed predetermined rules that prioritize one type of user data over another in making a recommendation. Other computing devices for example pose direct questions to a user to determine what the user desires at a later time.

These approaches while effective in many applications have weaknesses. Direct questioning is often disliked by users and consumes time and system resources. Rules typically require updating and may be based on faulty assumptions.

Another weakness of current approaches is that they do not seem to generate recommendations based on multiple contexts such as time and location.

Accordingly techniques that can help computing devices make better recommendations for one or more users would be useful.

Broadly speaking the invention relates to computing system. More particularly the invention pertains to techniques for predicting interest in an object of interest in a given a situation. A situation can for example refers to a specific set of one or more contexts conditions and or circumstances. One specific example of a situation would be at home in the morning. Of course numerous types of situations are possible.

An input situation can be represented by at least a first context variable. Data that includes interest values for multiple context variables can be provided and obtained. The obtained data can include a first data pertaining to the input situation and a second data pertaining to one or more other situations. It can be determined whether the first context variable is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. At least a portion of data pertaining to the situations can be determined to be proximate data when the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. Based on the input situation and the proximate data an interest value for the first input situation can be determined as a prediction of the interest in the input situation.

The invention can effectively take into account that useful interest related information can be derived from situations that are different but substantially similar to and or overlapping with the given situation. To use one simple example a better understanding of a user s interests at home in the evening may be obtained not only by analyzing the kind of interests that arise when a user is in that exact situation but also by examining the user s interests in other situations such as when the user is at home in the late afternoon.

In one embodiment a first input situation e.g. at home in the evening represented by a first context variable e.g. time is obtained. Data that includes interest values for multiple context variables time place etc. is obtained. For instance one type of data may indicate that on one day a user had a high level of interest in game applications in the evening at home but on another day he had a moderately low level of interest in game applications in the same situation etc. The obtained data includes a first kind of data which pertains to the first input situation and a second kind of data which pertains to one or more other situations. A determination is made as to whether the first context variable is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. For example in some but not all embodiments the context variable time may be regarded as a continuous range of values because of time s sequential nature. At least a portion of the second kind of data is determined to be proximate data when it is determined that the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. Based on the first kind of data and this proximate data an interest value for the first input situation is generated.

This proximate data may be determined based on a variety of criteria. For example data may be considered proximate because it relates to a continuous range of values and because it pertains to specific values that are in close proximity to the value in question. A particular embodiment for instance may involve generating an interest value that indicates a user s interest in say gaming applications when the user is at home in the evening. Data may be available showing the user s changing levels of interest in game applications both when the user is at home in the evening and when the user is at home in the late afternoon. In this example because time is considered to be a continuous sequence and because the periods late afternoon and evening can be understood as overlapping with one another both kinds of data may be used to generate a more accurate prediction of the user s interest level in game applications when the user is at home in the evening.

Some embodiments of the invention may be used to generate situation based interest rating components. These components may include interest values that indicate a level of interest in an object of interest in a specific situation. A specific example of such a component may indicate that a user has on average a moderately high interest level indicated by a value of 3.45 from a range of 0 to 5 in spreadsheet applications at work in the morning. These components in turn can be used to predict interest values for other situations.

The invention can be implemented in a variety of ways including for example a method an apparatus a computer readable medium and a computing system e.g. one or more computing devices . Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

The invention pertains to techniques for predicting interest in an object of interest in a given a situation. A situation can for example refer to a specific set of one or more contexts conditions and or circumstances. One specific example of a situation would be at home in the morning. Of course numerous types of situations are possible.

An input situation can be represented by at least a first context variable. Data that includes interest values for multiple context variables can be provided and obtained. The obtained data can include a first data pertaining to the input situation and a second data pertaining to one or more other situations. It can be determined whether the first context variable is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. At least a portion of data pertaining to the situations can be determined to be proximate data when the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. Based on the input situation and the proximate data an interest value for the first input situation can be determined as a prediction of the interest in the input situation.

The invention can effectively take into account that useful interest related information can be derived from situations that are different but substantially similar to and or overlapping with the given situation. To use one simple example a better understanding of a user s interests at home in the evening may be obtained not only by analyzing the kind of interests that arise when a user is in that exact situation but also by examining the user s interests in other situations such as when the user is at home in the late afternoon.

In one embodiment a first input situation e.g. at home in the evening represented partly by a first context variable e.g. time is obtained. Data that includes interest values for multiple context variables time place etc. is obtained. For instance one type of data may indicate that on one day a user had a high level of interest in game applications in the evening at home but on another day he had a moderately low level of interest in game applications in the same situation etc. The obtained data includes a first kind of data which pertains to the first input situation and a second kind of data which pertains to one or more other situations. A determination is made as to whether the first context variable is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. For example in some but not all embodiments the context variable time may be regarded as a continuous range of values because of time s sequential nature. At least a portion of the second kind of data is determined to be proximate data when it is determined that the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. Based on the first kind of data and this proximate data an interest value for the first input situation is generated.

This proximate data may be determined based on a variety of criteria. For example data may be considered proximate because it relates to a continuous range of values and because it pertains to specific values that are in close proximity to the value in question. A particular embodiment for instance may involve generating an interest value that indicates a user s interest in say gaming applications when the user is at home in the evening. Data may be available showing the user s changing levels of interest in game applications both when the user is at home in the evening and when the user is at home in the late afternoon. In this example because time is considered to be a continuous sequence and because the periods late afternoon and evening can be understood as overlapping with one another both kinds of data may be used to generate a more accurate prediction of the user s interest level in game applications when the user is at home in the evening.

Some embodiments of the invention may be used to generate situation based interest rating components. These components may include interest values that indicate a level of interest in an object of interest in a specific situation. A specific example of such a component may indicate that a user has on average a moderately high interest level indicated by a value of 3.45 from a range of 0 to 5 in spreadsheet applications at work in the morning. These components in turn can be used to predict interest values for other situations.

As noted above various techniques exist for making recommendations on behalf of a user. These techniques are effective in certain circumstances but have weaknesses as well. Some of these techniques for example require direct feedback from users about their interests or utilize fixed predetermined rules that prioritize one type of user data over another. Certain techniques do not take into account multiple contexts e.g. time and location in predicting the interests of a user.

In generating a recommendation on behalf of a user it can be helpful to take into account particular characteristics of a given situation. This concept will be elaborated upon below using a simple example although of course embodiments of the invention may diverge from this example in a variety of ways. In this example there may be data indicating the amount of interest a user has in consumer electronics in various situations. The data may indicate that the user s interest vacillates from time to time and from situation to situation. For example the data may illustrate changing patterns of interest in electronics in the middle of the day in the morning and night as well as when the user is in a variety of locations. Given this mixed data improved methods for accurately predicting the interest level of a user in electronics given a particular situation is desirable. One way of improving this prediction process is to take into account the nature of the context variables that make up the various situations.

In this example the situation pertains at least to the context variables time and place. For the purposes of this example these context variables differ in that time seems to have a sequential continuous nature and place does not. That is attempts to categorize time into discrete values or divisions may overemphasize the differences between such divisions. For instance the context variable time may have possible context values such as evening afternoon and morning but it is well understood that times that fall into the category evening such as the early evening may have much in common with times that fall into the category afternoon such as the late afternoon. In other words if it is assumed that the time of day may influence a user s interest in electronics then under certain circumstances that influence could be assumed to be similar between overlapping and or highly related divisions or values of time. The invention can take the continuous nature of a context variable into account when estimating an interest in an object of interest given a particular situation.

One embodiment of the invention is presented in . illustrates computing system which includes one or more components situation interest data collector situation based interest rating component generator and situation based interest predictor . In the illustrated embodiment components run applications observe processes in the system and or store logs of past activity etc. Computing system has one or more processors not shown and may be configured in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. For example computing system may be a mobile device a server and one or more clients and or multiple computer devices.

Situation interest data collector receives data relating to internal contexts from components and external contexts from the outside environment. Examples of internal contexts include the number and type of applications that are currently running modes of operation logs of past user behavior and or timing information. Examples of external contexts may include data relating to location speed motion proximity to a device GPS signals and or temperature. Situation interest data collector may also correlate such contextual data with additional information characterizing interests on the part of one or more users i.e. types of interests the intensities of those interests user actions implying specific interests etc. . Other types of data may be collected as well.

Situation based interest rating component generator analyzes the data collected by situation interest data collector and generates situation based interest rating components . In the illustrated embodiment the situation based interest rating components capture situation based interest patterns in the collected data. For instance one of the situation based interest rating compounds may indicate that the user has on average a moderately high level of interest indicated by a numerical value of 4.35 on a range of 0 to 5 in game applications when he or she is at home in the evening.

To generate such interest values for the situation based interest rating components situation based interest rating component generator takes into account the characteristics of various contexts. It may determine for example whether various internal and external contexts and are related to continuous or discrete ranges. If a context is deemed to be associated with a continuous range e.g. time then situation based interest rating component generator may base an interest value calculation for a particular situation not just on data pertaining to that situation e.g. morning but also on data pertaining to situations that are very similar and or overlapping with respect to that continuous context e.g. morning as well as midday because midday is in close proximity to morning .

Situation based interest rating components are then received by situation based interest predictor . Situation based interest predictor also receives additional input external contexts and input internal contexts . Situation based interest predictor uses this data to generate predicted interest value . In the illustrated embodiment predicted interest value is an estimation of a degree of interest in an object of interest that would occur in a situation represented by input external contexts and input internal contexts . To use a very simple example situation based interest predictor may receive input relating to a location based external context e.g. workplace and a time based internal context e.g. the afternoon . Based on situation based interest rating components and these inputted context values the situation based interest predictor in this example may predict that the interest level in say a gaming application would be high as opposed to medium or low. To predict such values the situation based interest predictor may encode some or all of the situation based interest rating components as vectors and selectively calculate distances between them. Of course the characteristics and operations of the situation based interest predictor may vary widely depending on the needs of a particular application.

One embodiment of the invention illustrated in pertains to a method that given a certain situation predicts an interest level in an interest object. The operations in will be elaborated upon in further detail with reference to . However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments. The method begins with step of which involves obtaining a first input situation represented by at least a first context variable.

In step of data including interest values for multiple context variables is obtained. In the illustrated embodiment the data of step shares at least one context variable with the input situation of step . For example if the input situation of step has a context variable time then the obtained data may pertain to the context variable time as well and may offer data involving various periods of time e.g. morning afternoon etc. . Such data may take a variety of different forms. For example certain types of data involve a linking between a specific level of interest in an interest object e.g. a high level of interest in pop music and two or more context values e.g. being at home in the evening . Other types of data may be more or less specific and or integrate other factors. The data may be drawn from the actions of one or more users the tracking or observation of patterns of behavior and or be estimates. The data can be formatted and stored in a variety of ways as well. For example the data can take the form of multiple data associations in which context variables which represent one or more situations are associated with specific interest levels.

A simple more detailed example of data associations is provided in . In the illustrated embodiment 8 data associations are presented in rows. The context variables and relate to place and time respectively. The interest objects include an interest in a game application and an interest in a news application. Each data association has context values for the context variables and interest values for the interest objects. For example data association has context variable place with the context value work context variable time with the context value evening and an interest level of 1 in a gaming application and an interest level of 2 in a news application. In this example the interest levels are drawn from the range of integers between 0 and 4. This data association could be taken to mean for example that at one point in time a user evidenced a low level of interest in a gaming application but a slightly higher level of interest in a news application at work during the evening. Other interpretations and relationships between the various values and variables are also possible. Other data associations may have similar or different values. For example data association has an unknown value depicted by an x in place of a game related numerical interest value. This indicates that the game related interest value was unknown missing unclear and or insufficiently supported when data association was formed.

It should be appreciated that the data associations variables and or values may be configured in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In certain embodiments context values and interest levels may be predefined and or limited to a discrete number of values. For example in the example of the context values for the context variables place and time are encoded as multi dimensional binary vectors i.e. vectors that encode data in the form of multiple 0 s and 1 s or other equivalent values . Context variable place has two possible context values home and work which are encoded as 1 0 and 0 1 respectively. Context variable time has three possible context values morning midday and night which are encoded as 1 0 0 0 1 0 and 0 0 1 respectively. This is referred to as 1 in N encoding. In other words for a specific context variable N is an integer equal to the number of possible context values. Each context value for that variable is encoded as a vector with N binary values. In the illustrated embodiment the context value vectors for a specific context variable are similar in that they have the same number of values but each is unique in terms of where their respective 1 values are positioned. For instance with regard to context variable place context value work has a 1 in the second position and context value home has a 1 in the first position. A variety of other encoding mechanisms are also possible. In the illustrated embodiment such encoding helps to streamline later operations in method of and method of as will described later in this application.

In step of it is determined whether a certain context variable e.g. time or place is associated with a discrete range of values or a continuous range of values. In particular embodiments a continuous range of values are a range of values that are semantically understood to be sequential continuous and or overlapping. While a continuous range may be divided into distinct values in the interests of convenience in certain embodiments at least some of these values are understood to be strongly affiliated with one or more other values. One example of this would be values associated with periods of time such as morning noon afternoon and evening. In some embodiments it is understood that these categories are somewhat arbitrary and are not intended to imply that there are substantial differences between any data point that falls into one category and any data point that falls into another. To use a simple example 10 a.m. may be placed in a morning category and 11 a.m. may be placed in a noon category but it is well understood that the two times are highly similar to one another because of the sequential continuous nature of time.

Particular embodiments involve discrete ranges or groups of values which refers to values that are deemed to not overlap and or be substantially related to one another. One may readily imagine for example a context variable such as location having this quality. In this example location may have discrete values such as home and work. Semantically speaking and with respect to particular embodiments terms like home and work are perceived not as being part of a sequential continuum but rather as relatively unrelated distinctive categories. For this reason in certain embodiments the context variable place would be regarded as having a discrete range of values.

Particular embodiments instead or in addition to classifying context variables as continuous or discrete determine whether values in a specific range of values are affiliated or unaffiliated. The threshold question for such a determination is are there values within the given range or group understood as having substantial similarities with one another for purposes of estimating specific interests related to those values To use a simple example in some embodiments the context variable location may be considered to be unaffiliated based on the assumption that values such as work and home do not have a relevant relationship to one another. This understanding of location mirrors the discussion above regarding discrete values. In other embodiments however the context variable location may embrace affiliated values such as near retail outlet X near mall Y near a live Internet connection and at work. Particular embodiments may determine that for instance the first two values near retail outlet X near mall Y are affiliated with one another as are the latter two near a live Internet connection at work . This categorization of a group of values as affiliated is based on the idea that different values of the same type can sometimes influence a person s interests in a similar manner.

Step of involves determining a portion of the data to be proximate data proximate to the first input situation when the first context variable is associated with a continuous range of values. A particular embodiment of the above step will be described below using a simple example. This example assumes that the input situation has two context variables place and time which have the context values work and evening. In this example time is considered to be a context variable that is associated with a continuous affiliated range of values which are morning midday and night. Place is considered to be associated with a discrete unaffiliated range of values.

In this example data association is proximate data to the input situation at work in the evening. This is because data association shares the context value work with the input situation. Additionally data association has a context value midday for continuous context variable time that is not the same as but is in close proximity to evening. That is if the range of possible context values morning midday evening is seen as a linear sequence with two ends midday would be included in a one sided band composed of values up to 1 value away from evening. It should be appreciated that this concept of proximate data and proximity can vary depending on the needs of a particular application. The band for example could be two sided e.g. the band around midday may include both morning and night . The distances could be measured along a linear sequence with two ends a looped linear sequence or in a space with two or more dimensions. The distances defining the boundaries of proximate data could be predetermined or automatically adjusted. The criteria used to determine proximate data may differ between different context variables and or context values. In certain instances proximate date may exclude otherwise qualified data associations that have erroneous unclear and or insufficiently supported interest values.

In step an interest value for the first input situation is generated based on the proximate data described in step and data pertaining to the first input situation. In particular embodiments this interest value indicates the estimated interest level of a user in an object of interest when the first input situation arises. Certain embodiments incorporate these interest values for various situations into situation based interest rating components. Step will be discussed in further detail using the components and of respectively.

The arrangement and configuration of the situation based interest rating components of may vary depending on the needs of a particular application. For example each of the components may contain fewer or more context variables context values interest objects interest values and or other items. Any portion of each component may be encoded as binary values a vector and or some other format. In particular embodiments the number of situation based interest rating components is the same as the total number of possible situations e.g. if situations are defined by 2 context variables with X and Y numbers of possible context values respectively then the number of situation based interest rating components would be XY . Under particular conditions interest values and or context values may be missing from certain situation based interest rating components. In some embodiments each situation based interest rating component is associated with only one situation and or one interest object. Particular embodiments involve components in which the number and or type of context variables possible context values interest objects and or possible interest levels are predefined and or limited to a discrete number. To use a simple example the context variable time may be expressed using 1 of only 6 context values indicating different periods during the day. The situation based interest rating components can be created processed and or stored in various kinds of hardware software and or both. Some embodiments involve such components in a computer readable medium such as a hard drive or flash memory.

Each of the situation based interest rating components of associates an interest value with a different situation although this is not a requirement. Component for example estimates an interest in a game as 2.6 from 0 to 4 arising in a situation involving work and evening. Components correspond to different situations involving different combinations of context values for context variables place and time. 

Situation based interest rating components may be determined in a wide variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In the particular embodiment illustrated in the interest values are derived from the data associations in in accordance with steps and of .

Situation based interest rating component of will be used as an example. As noted earlier component represents the estimated interest in games i.e. interest value of 2.6 that would arise in a specific situation i.e. at work in the evening . In the illustrated embodiment the interest value of 2.6 for component is based on data associations of that meet the following criteria 1 the data association is proximate data for the situation at work in the evening which as described earlier in connection with step is true for data association or 2 the data association corresponds to the situation for the component e.g. workplace in the evening which is true for data associations and and 3 the data association does not include data associations with unclear game related data which rules out data association As a result the interest value of 2.6 is based on a simple average of the game related interest values for the qualified data associations and which is 1 2 4 3 3 13 5 approximately 2.6. The other interest values for components are determined in a similar manner. It should be appreciated that additional criteria may be considered in evaluating data and or data associations. Additionally the averaging calculation presents only one simple way of determining situation based interest rating components . Various other techniques may also be used.

Once interest values for situation based interest rating components are generated in the above manner they may be used to predict additional interest values in objects of interest in various situations. Method of illustrates one such approach. The steps of will be described in conjunction with . In step multiple situation based interest rating components are generated for multiple situations using method of .

In step of an input situation is received. This input situation can take on various forms and be derived from a variety of sources. For example the input situation may analogous to the one described above in connection with . In some embodiments the number of possible input situations is similar to or exactly the same as the number of situation based interest rating components and or the number of possible situations associated with the components. The input situation the situation based interest rating components and or the data associations may be limited to the same types of context variables and context values. The input situation may characterize a situation from the past present future and or be selected arbitrarily. To use a simple example the input situation in one embodiment may involve recognizing that a user is currently at home in the morning. 

In step of one of the situation based interest rating components of is identified as a matching situation based interest rating component. In particular embodiments the matching component is the one whose situation matches partly or completely that of the input situation. To use the example presented in if the input situation is home in the morning then the matching situation based interest rate component would be component . This identification operation however need not be based solely on a situation. In particular embodiments it is based on entirely different or additional factors such as the interest value.

In step of the relevance of at least a portion of one or more other situation based interest rating components to the matching situation based interest rating component is determined. This relevance calculation may be performed in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. Particular embodiments involve determining relevancies of only portions of components to portions of the matching component such as only the situation related portions the interest value related portions or both. The determining of relevancies could also involve components as a whole. Some embodiments involve calculating one or more distances between the matching situation based interest rating component and other components. With respect to the example presented in the previous paragraph this would mean that distances would be calculated between matching component of and at least one of the other components 

The distance calculation may be performed in a variety of ways. One example is hereby presented with reference to . As discussed earlier the context values for each of the situation based interest rating components is encoded as vectors. It should be appreciated that any portion including the interest value portion of each component may be encoded in vector form. For example situation based interest component includes context value work which is encoded as the vector 0 1 and the context value night which is encoded as vector 0 0 1. In a similar vein the situation of component is encoded as home vector 1 0 and morning vector 0 1 0. One way to calculate a distance between these two vectors is to combine the context value vectors for each component to form two larger vectors and to calculate a distance between those vectors. In the illustrated example calculating the distance between component and means calculating a distance between the vector 0 1 0 0 1 the combined context value vectors for component and the vector 1 0 0 1 0 the combined context value vectors for component . The inputs to the distance calculation need not be limited to situation related vectors. They may include interest values non binary vectors and or other factors depending on the needs of a particular application. Thus the vectors used in a distance calculation may include values other than situation based ones such as interest values.

The aforementioned distance may be calculated using a variety of different formulas. For example two possibilities include a Euclidean distance formula and a cosine distance formula. Other formulas or algorithms are also possible. The cosine distance for example between a vector A defined as aa. . . a and a vector B defined as bb. . . b may be calculated as follows 

In some embodiments of the above equation 0 values are converted into very small values. The above equation may be modified or reformulated depending on the needs of a particular application.

The number of distance and or relevance determinations may vary depending on the needs of a particular application. For example in the relevance of matching component to all other components i.e. at least components may be determined. In alternative embodiments this determination is not applied to certain components that lack sufficient interest value data. Various factors and conditions may be involved in determining whether the relevance determination is applied to a certain situation based interest rating component or not.

In step of a projected interest value in the object of interest is determined based on the relevance determinations. This step is elaborated upon in further detail in . presents situation based interest predictor which generates projected interest value . As inputs situation based interest predictor receives input situation which was discussed in step of and interest values which are weighted by weights respectively.

The interest values are derived at least partly from the interest values of specific situation based interest rating components such as interest values of components of . In the illustrated embodiment weights influence the degree to which each associated interest value contributes to projected interest value . Interest values and weights may be selected and or calculated in a variety of ways depending on the needs of a particular application. In the illustrated embodiment of the weights are determined using the distance calculations described earlier. In this simple example the number of interest values and weights are also determined by the distance calculations. More specifically the weights used in the situation based interest predictor to generate projected interest value are derived from those situation based interest rating components that were closest in distance to the matching component. The number of situation based interest rating components to be used in such a derivation may be limited to a predefined number K. Thus in a simple example where K 5 and the matching situation based interest rating component was component of interest values of match the interest values of those 5 components of components that are closest to component One of the K components may or may not be the matching situation based interest rating component. Factors other than closeness may be used to determine the source of interest values K may be smaller larger equal to the total number of situation based interest rating components predetermined and or automatically generated.

In certain embodiments once weights are calculated they can be inputted into the situation based interest predictor to generate projected interest value . The formulas used to predict the interest value may vary greatly depending on the needs of a particular application. One approach is to use a weighted sum. The following formula for example makes a prediction for an interest value based on the following weighted sum equation 

In the above exemplary equation P is the predicted interest value for a specific interest object. V refers to the interest value of the i th component of K situation based interest rating components. The function relevance relates to the relevance calculations described above e.g. a distance equation. S refers to the input situation. C refers to the i th situation based interest rating component.

Situation based interest level predictor of may produce one or more predictions. In particular embodiments it will predict interest levels for a wide range of interest objects e.g. given that the user is at home in midday his interest in TV is high his interest in sports is high his interest in spreadsheet applications is low etc. . Particular embodiments involve interest level predictions for hundreds or thousands of interest objects.

In some cases it may be determined that there is insufficient data to support a prediction of an interest value related to a particular interest object. Some embodiments involve predicting an interest value using the interest values predicted for one or more other interest objects e.g. a predicted interest in pop music may be based on a predicted interest in classical music music applications or a combination of other interest objects . Another possibility is to predict an interest value in an interest object based on evaluating and or averaging the range of possible interest values for that interest object. To use a simple example if an interest in game applications is measured on a scale of 0 to 6 a 3 may be predicted for a user since it is the midpoint of the range. Other approaches are also possible.

The prediction equation may take a number of different forms depending on the needs of a specific application. For example the prediction equation may involve various kinds of context values interest levels interest objects weights situation based interest rating components variables and or values. The weighted sum used above may be modified or replaced entirely with another equation. In certain embodiments the prediction may be informed by factors other than the components situations values and weights referenced in a relevance determination distance calculation and or a weighted sum formula. One embodiment may involve using predictions of various interest levels to return better search results to a user accessing a search engine. The predictions may be based not only on the context values characterizing the situation of the user e.g. the time of day the user s location and activity logs etc. but also on the keywords the user is typing in as well as other types of data. In one example the prediction could be improved by reviewing a history of the user s past searches and or page views and determining from them additional keywords and or data that may help improve the accuracy of the search. In this example such keywords and data may influence the predictions but may not be used in a weighted sum formula and or included in a set of probability values as described earlier.

Another embodiment of the invention is presented in . describe a exemplary method that addresses circumstances in which the intensity of a user s interest in an object of interest is unknown or unclear in one or more situations. Method may be used to predict an interest value for one such situation which in turn may be used to predict interest values for other situations.

Initially in step of method multiple situation based interest rating components are obtained. One or more of these components may be generated using method of . One or more of these components is an unknown interest rating component with an unknown interest value. In other words the interest value of this component is inadequately supported unclear and or non existent. To use a simple example it may represent a circumstance in which it would be desirable to know the intensity of user A s interests in say game applications when user A is at home in the evening but the intensity of that interest is not known with a sufficient level of certainty.

In step the relevance of one or more situation based interest rating components to the unknown interest rating component is determined. In some embodiments this determination is based only on portions of each such component. In certain other embodiments the determination is based on each of these components as a whole. This operation may take place in a manner similar to aspects of step of . As noted above the determination of such relevancies may involve the encoding of situations interest values and or entire situation based interest rating components as vectors and the finding of distances between such vectors.

In step a first projected interest value for the unknown interest rating is determined. This step may take place in a manner similar to step of .

Particular embodiments involve the addition of steps to method of . One such embodiment is presented in . In step the unknown interest value for the unknown interest rating component is substituted with the first projected interest value described in step of . The unknown interest rating component which previously had an unclear or unsupported interest value associated with it now has been updated with a new interest value. This updated interest rating component can be used to make further predictions as outlined in steps and .

In step an input situation is obtained. In step one of the situation based interest rating components is identified as matching the input situation. These steps may be similar to steps and of . In particular embodiments these steps may identify another situation based interest rating component that lacks a clear and or well supported interest value.

In step the relevance of at least a portion of one or more situation based interest rating components to at least a portion of the matching situation based interest component is determined. The group of situation based interest components that are involved in this determination may or may not be different from the ones referred to in step . In many aspects this step may be performed in a manner similar to step of and step of . In step however the group of components involved in this relevance determination includes the updated interest rating component formerly the unknown interest rating component described in steps and of respectively. Thus the results of the first prediction which was determined in step of are being used to augment a second prediction which is described in step of .

In step a second projected interest value is predicted. This step may be performed in a manner similar to steps and of and respectively.

It should be appreciated that steps and in part or in whole may be repeated numerous times. Particular embodiments involve multiple situation based interest rating components in which the components fall into two groups. Some of these components are well supported and have associated interest values that are believed to be reasonably accurate. Other components in the same group however may have defective interest values i.e. interest values that are unclear non existent and or possibly inaccurate. These components raise a concern that for instance the preferences or interests of one or more users are unknown in certain types of situations. The steps mentioned above can be used to substitute a defective interest value of a component with an estimated one which in a manner of speaking repairs the component. By iterating this process previously repaired components can potentially be used to make predictions for and repair other components.

Particular embodiments of the invention offer several advantages. For example in making predictions the invention allows for the weighing of numerous different context variables and context values so that more accurate predictions of an entity s interests can be made. The context variables and values tracked and or processed by embodiments of the invention can vary greatly depending on the needs of a particular application. For example the context variables and values may pertain to geographical factors physical biological factors environmental variables e.g. location temperature presence of nearby devices GPS signals components proximity of human beings buildings and or signals motion acceleration velocity etc. and or internal variables e.g. time open and or active applications mode of operation condition event power force Internet browsing behavior pattern of selected ads direct or indirect feedback from the person etc. .

Another advantage of some embodiments of the invention is their ability to flexibly respond to changing environments and circumstances. For example in particular embodiments new context values and variables can be easily integrated into the making of future predictions. Some embodiments do not require training or direct feedback from a user about the user s interests because situation based interest rating components and predictions can be generated dynamically and or invisibly from various sources of data such as observed user behavior. Additionally certain embodiments need not rely on predetermined rules that prioritize some context variables context interest interest objects and or interest rules over others e.g. a rule prioritizing a place context variable over a time variable etc. . Particular embodiments involve a weighing or prioritization process that is derived entirely from a comparison or distance calculation involving the matching situation based interest rating component and one or more other situation based interest rating components e.g. as described in step of . Certain embodiments do not have or require a rule that predetermines a greater weight for one situation based interest rating component context variable interest object and or interest value over others prior to the collection of user data the obtaining of situation based interest rating components and or relevance determinations involving one or more of the same.

Another advantage of particular embodiments is that there is no need to cluster data. Particular embodiments of the invention do not involve defining a number of clusters clustering two or more data points finding the centers of clusters and or calculating a distance between a data point and a center of one of the clusters.

An additional advantage is that particular embodiments of the invention can be used to predict the interests of a user without accessing the behavior of other users. That is in certain embodiments of the invention situation based interest rating components and predictions may be derived from data collection systems that are limited only to the contexts behavior and or characteristics of a single person or a selected group of people. This approach helps to improve privacy.

A number of applications may be envisioned for particular embodiments of the invention. For example one embodiment involves a client mobile device such as a cell phone PDA health monitor or portable laptop computer and a server. The client mobile device has a communication link with the server so that data can be exchanged between them. The client mobile device may store a log of the person s behavior and possibly transmit it to the server for long term storage and processing. Such log data could be transformed into data associations or some other format and stored in a computer readable medium. Portions or all of the log data could be processed by the server to obtain situation based interest rating components. For example data parsing could unveil that the person typically has a high level of interest in spreadsheet applications at work in the morning and has on average a low level of interest in spreadsheet applications at home in the evening. The client mobile device may also be used to obtain the input situation e.g. as described in step of and transmit it the server. The client mobile device for example may inform the server that the person is currently near a specific retail outlet in motion and in downtown New York. The server could use various situation based interest rating components and the input situation to make a prediction of the person s interest in an object of interest in accordance with steps and of . For example the server could predict that the person would have a high degree of interest in consumer electronics and retail advertisements in part because the person is out shopping and has shown such a pattern of interest under similar circumstances in the past.

In some embodiments an action may be taken based on a prediction once it is determined that the predicted interest level has reached a certain threshold. Particular embodiments of the invention involve identifying situations as characterized by specific combinations of context values that prompt the running of an application because of an earlier prediction that the interest levels for one or more interest objects is particularly high when that particular combination of context values arises. In the above example a server may calculate that a user s interest level in retail advertisements and electronics is high when the device and therefore the person is in motion and near specific retail outlets. The mobile device may transmit an alert to the server when the mobile device detects that such conditions have arisen. In response the server may direct the mobile device to transmit ads or suggestions to the person relating directly or indirectly to shopping and consumer electronics. Many variations on the above example are possible.

It should be noted that the techniques of the invention can use the techniques for predicting interest described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 392 entitled RATING BASED INTERESTS IN COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS AND SYSTEMS which is hereby incorporated by references herein for all purposes.

It should also be noted that techniques for predicting interest are also described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 395 entitled CONTEXT BASED INTERESTS IN COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS AND SYSTEMS which is hereby incorporated by references herein for all purposes.

The various aspects features embodiments or implementations of the invention described above can be used alone or in various combinations. The many features and advantages of the present invention are apparent from the written description and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art the invention should not be limited to the exact construction and operation as illustrated and described. Hence all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to as falling within the scope of the invention.

