---

title: Wireless communication device having dynamically escalated media transmission handling
abstract: A wireless communication device that dynamically escalates media transmission handling on the resident computer platform operating system through passing priority data bundles that include media directly from an application programming interface to the wireless communication interface. The application programming interface generates an outgoing priority data bundle including media, and a media handler directs the outgoing priority data bundle directly to the wireless communication interface for transmission without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system. The same priority handling can be done with incoming data bundles received at the wireless communication interface and being sent to an application programming interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08023982&OS=08023982&RS=08023982
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08023982
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080512
---
The present invention relates to wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to a wireless communication device and method for escalating the media handling of applications resident on the computer platform of a wireless communication device.

Modern wireless communication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices often have limited to significant data processing and computing capability and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the telephone network and perform advanced computer functions.

Some of these wireless communication devices have a computer platform which has a resident operating system with one or more software layers or objects that interact with active programs executing on the computer platform. One problem with the use of an advanced multi layered operating system on the wireless device computer platform is that there can be a significant delay in executing applications and passing data among various applications. The delay can hamper time sensitive data handling on the computer platform and interrupt communications.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

In particular regard to PTT communications specific handling of voice packets is often done with a queue for transmission from the device and a general resident application of the operating system will handle the transfer of the media packets to and from the queue. The general application will invoke another application to exchange frames with a Vocoder and will queue frames to compensate for the non real time transmission of the PTT communication. This delay can cause jitter in the outgoing voice talk spurt. 

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a wireless computer device that can escalate the handling of very time sensitive priority data such as PTT communications from its computer platform without invoking all layers of the resident operating system. The escalation of handling of priority data such as media should be accomplished without compromising other resources of the wireless communication device. It is thus to the provision of such a wireless communication device with dynamic escalation of priority data that the present invention is primarily directed.

Briefly described the present invention is a wireless communication device that dynamically escalates media transmission handling on the resident computer platform operating system through passing priority data bundles that include media directly from an application programming interface to the wireless communication interface. For an application programming interface that utilizes priority data bundle including media such as PTT voice and other group communications where data handling and transmission is extremely important for continuity of communication a media handler directs the outgoing priority data bundle directly to the wireless communication interface for transmission without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system. In one embodiment the same priority handling can be done with incoming data bundles received at the wireless communication interface that are being sent to an application programming interface.

In one embodiment the wireless communication device has a computer platform including an operating system that has a plurality of layers including an application programming interface that is configured to handle media and generate an outgoing priority data bundle including media. The device also has a wireless communication interface and more than one layer of the plurality of layers is configured to handle media transmitted from the application programming interface to the wireless communication interface. The device includes a media handler that dynamically escalates media transmission handling through sending an outgoing priority data bundle from the application programming interface directly to the wireless communication interface without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system which is advantageous for the handling and processing of time sensitive data.

In one embodiment the method of dynamically escalating media transmission handling on a wireless communication device having a computer platform with an operating system and a wireless communication interface with the operating system including a plurality of layers including an application programming interface that handles media and more than one layer of the plurality of layers configured to handle media transmitted from the application programming interface to the wireless communication interface includes the steps of generating an outgoing priority data bundle including media at an application programming interface sending the outgoing priority data bundle directly to the wireless communication interface without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system and transmitting the outgoing priority data bundle from the wireless communication interface.

The present wireless communication device is therefore advantageous in that it is able to expedite the handling of priority data without potential delay from invoking various layers of resident software. The wireless communication device allows PTT communication setup through simple modification of data in a handled data packet. In such manner the wireless communication device expedites call transmission and or reception without unduly compromising the resources for other device functions.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of a system with a group communication server to one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

The group communication can be voice applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . Also the group communication is typically half duplex audio conferencing among members of the communication group .

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service providers packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or be at the control of the group communication server . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a wireless communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device typically for the half duplex voice communication in a PTT call. The wireless communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The wireless communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the other PTT applications . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client can act as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

In one embodiment a media handler will provide direct access to the external communication interface or here an AMSS interface. The media handler responds to PTT requests for group directed services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications and can service the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request.

In particular the Vocoder related media components function with the MediaPipe extracting frame data from media packets will mute and unmute the sound path track talk spurt specific information and provides the status to MediaMgr . The Sound components is that utility class for accessing and configuring the sound path. The voice buffer maintains transmission and return buffers for individual frames sorts received frames based upon RTP sequence number and interleaving information and scatters frames into interleaved positions for media transmission. The voice buffer also starts and stops IVocoder including monitoring buffer depths and watermarks.

In this embodiment a Media Extension is used to escalate the media handling. The IMedExt static extension interface APls replace the typical media handling functionality on the OS. Other media extension interface APIs are used herein to assist in the escalation. For example Configuring Session APls OpenSession StartVocoder SetRemoteinfo Closesession Info all of which configure the media session Speaking Mode APls Startspeaking DoneSpeaking which will allows talk spurts to be escalated Listening Mode APls SetListening SetMuting which allow escalation of incoming transmissions Registering Callback APIs RegisterVoiceStatusCB which will indicate caller information and a Provisioning API SetNwWaterMark which will tell other devices when the end of the transmission is.

The use of the various embodiments of the media escalation can optimally eliminate a Vocoder interface delay of 120 ms from the various layers handling media bundles. Furthermore the performance improvement when QChat is executing concurrently with multiple applications will be achieved as the priority media is escalated and other applications resident on the computer platform can invoke the IMedExt APls and use the Media Extension on a dynamic or static application independently

In overview the wireless communication device includes a computer platform including an operating system that has a plurality of layers including an application programming interface configured to handle media and generate an outgoing priority data bundle including media. A wireless communication interface is also resident thereupon or in communication therewith and more than one layer of the plurality of layers is configured to handle media transmitted from the application programming interface to the wireless communication interface . A media handler such as Media Extension in or in is configured to dynamically escalate media transmission handling through sending an outgoing priority data bundle from the application programming interface directly to the wireless communication interface without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system.

The media handler can be further configured to generate an outgoing group communication to other wireless communication devices in a predetermined communication group and the such group communication can be a talk spurt. In one embodiment the media handler assigns a port to the application programming interface for media sent therefrom or alternately can assign a socket for escalated transmission. The application programming interface can selectively yield control of the wireless communication interface to another application programming interface and the media handler can prioritize which API should have priority. The media handler can further send an incoming data bundle at the wireless communication interface directly to an application programming interface without handling of the incoming data bundle by other software layers of the operating system thereby allowing a priority receipt of a transmission. It should also be noted that a buffer can be used to store both incoming and outgoing priority transmissions when so embodied.

It can thus be seen that the wireless device also provides an inventive method for dynamically escalating media transmission handling on a wireless communication device including the steps of generating an outgoing priority data bundle including media at an application programming interface sending the outgoing priority data bundle directly to the wireless communication interface without handling of the outgoing priority data bundle by other software layers of the operating system and transmitting the outgoing priority data bundle from the wireless communication interface . The generating of an outgoing priority data bundle is generating an outgoing group communication to other wireless communication devices in a predetermined communication group such as a talk spurt in a group voice communication. The sending of the outgoing priority data bundle directly to the wireless communication interface can accomplished by assigning a port to the application programming interface for media sent therefrom by assigning a socket to the application programming interface or other methods of data transmission as known in the art.

The application programming interface can selectively yield control of the wireless communication interface to another application programming interface. An object in one of the plurality of layers such as a media handler can assign an application programming interface to the wireless communication interface which can be in a prioritized manner for transmission of the outgoing data bundle. The method can also include sending an incoming data bundle including media at the wireless communication interface directly to an application programming interface without handling of the incoming data bundle by other software layers of the operating system . If so embodied the method can include sending the outgoing priority data bundle to a buffer then sending the outgoing data bundle from the buffer to the wireless communication interface .

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

