---

title: Appending content to a telephone communication
abstract: An interactive information distribution system that facilitates automatic transmission of a variety of information packets to the communication devices of a calling party and parties called during a call. The information packets are comprised of actual files and or links to files or websites, and are automatically transmitted following the initiation of a call. Upon initiating a call, an indicator that may include metadata linked to information packets is processed to identify at least one database for locating information packets to which the metadata is linked. The interactive information distribution system also includes a verbal communication conversion engine that allows verbal telephone communications to be converted to text and filtered to generate keywords which are used in additional database searching to identify additional information packets. The information packets automatically identified are retrieved from a database and are transmitted to the communication devices of parties participating in a call during the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08223932&OS=08223932&RS=08223932
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08223932
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080315
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 474 entitled Automated Unique Call Announcement filed Jun. 29 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 498 entitled Mobile Telephone Interactive Call Distribution System filed Jun. 29 2007 which applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Voice communications generally are received by a calling party without any context. So if a first party calls a second party the second party has no idea what the call is about until the first party starts talking and explains why they initiated the communication. People have tried to sidestep this issue by having a personal assistant screen calls acting as a human filter. In modern mobile and wired telephones methods and systems are used as an automatic filter such as voice mail where a person may be forced to leave a message identifying who they are and what the call is about in order for them to receive a call back. Text based caller identification provides some level of context by displaying the identity of a caller on a screen on a telephone to allow a called party to see an identification of a calling party before a telephone call is answered. A text to speech TTS system may be used to speak aloud a name presented in a caller identification field in association with a calling party. Some telephones allow custom ring tones to be assigned to specific telephone numbers but the assignment of custom ring tones to specific numbers is not an automated process. Even if a caller is identified by TTS technology or a unique ring tone often times an individual receives such communication without any context. Accordingly a user who accepts a call from someone has no idea what that call may be about until the user starts talking with them. There is a need for a system which provides information other than caller identification data along with a call in real time so as to provide the party called with as much information and context as possible about an incoming call so that the call recipient can conduct a conversation with all necessary information. In the past such information was provided asynchronously such as by sending an email prior to the voice communication.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention solve the above and other problems by providing a system that facilitates information distribution over a communications network that allows voice and data transmissions during a telephone call whereby the system may be operative over a VOIP network mobile communications network or combination thereof with any network based computer system. Upon initiation of a telephone call the automatic information distribution system receives an indicator of the initiated telephone call and automatically processes the indicator to identify at least one database for searching searches the database identified for information associated with the telephone call retrieves and transmits the associated information to at least one party participating in the call. The system also includes transmission control and speech recognition modules. The transmission control module manages the information transmitted based upon the type of device initiating or receiving a call and the communications network through which the call initiating or receiving device is communicating. The speech recognition module filters the conversation between parties participating in a call to identify key words and utilizes the key words to search for additional information associated with the key words which may be transmitted in real time to the call participants during the call. The automatic information distribution system also processes and transmits supplemental files associated with the call initiating party and the call receiving party such as calendar data free busy data contacts information and associated files during the voice communication.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to automatic information distribution over a communications network during a live voice communication. The invention is a system that includes a module capable of automatically inferring from the metadata in a telephone call information relevant to the call that is retrieved and transmitted to a caller upon initiation of a call. The system also includes a module capable of inferring from the content of telephone conversation keywords that may be used to identify information from an entire body of data or a finite body of information that has been pre selected. The information identified is extracted and transmitted to individuals involved in the telephone call during the call in whatever format is useful. The voice communication may be on a mobile telephone VOIP phone video phone or any other communication device that allows both voice and data communication over the communications network.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention but instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention may be utilized for both mobile and wired voice communication devices through which both voice and data transmission may be communicated. For purposes of illustration embodiments of the present invention will be described herein with reference to a mobile computing device having a voice communication system but it should be appreciated that the components described for the mobile computing device with its mobile voice communication system are equally applicable to a wired voice communication device having similar or equivalent functionality for automatically searching for and providing data associated with parties involved in the voice communication as described herein.

The following is a description of a suitable mobile computing device for example a camera phone or camera enabled computing device discussed above with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. With reference to an example mobile computing device for implementing the embodiments is illustrated. In a basic configuration mobile computing device is a handheld computer having both input elements and output elements. Input elements may include touch screen display and input buttons and allow the user to enter information into mobile computing device . Mobile computing device also incorporates a side input element allowing further user input. Side input element may be a rotary switch a button or any other type of manual input element. In alternative embodiments mobile computing device may incorporate more or less input elements. For example display may not be a touch screen in some embodiments. In yet another alternative embodiment the mobile computing device is a portable phone system such as a cellular phone having display and input buttons . Mobile computing device may also include an optional keypad . Optional keypad may be a physical keypad or a soft keypad generated on the touch screen display. Yet another input device that may be integrated to mobile computing device is an on board camera .

Mobile computing device incorporates output elements such as display which can display a graphical user interface GUI . Other output elements include speaker and LED light . Additionally mobile computing device may incorporate a vibration module not shown which causes mobile computing device to vibrate to notify the user of an event. In yet another embodiment mobile computing device may incorporate a headphone jack not shown for providing another means of providing output signals.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention is used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where queries are performed and information is gathered by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. To summarize any computer system having a plurality of environment sensors a plurality of output elements to provide notifications to a user and a plurality of notification event types may incorporate embodiments of the present invention.

In this embodiment system has a processor a memory display and keypad . Memory generally includes both volatile memory e.g. RAM and non volatile memory e.g. ROM Flash Memory or the like . System includes an Operating System OS which in this embodiment is resident in a flash memory portion of memory and executes on processor . Keypad may be a push button numeric dialing pad such as on a typical telephone a multi key keyboard such as a conventional keyboard or may not be included in the mobile computing device in deference to a touch screen or stylus. Display may be a liquid crystal display or any other type of display commonly used in mobile computing devices. Display may be touch sensitive and would then also act as an input device.

One or more application programs are loaded into memory and run on or outside of operating system . Examples of application programs include phone dialer programs e mail programs voice recognition programs PIM personal information management programs such as electronic calendar and contacts programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs and so forth. One specific program that may run on or outside of the operating system is OFFICE COMMUNICATOR available from MICROSOFT CORPORATION REDMOND WASH. OFFICE COMMUNICATOR is a unified communications client that helps communicating individuals be more productive by enabling them to communicate easily with others in different locations or time zones using a range of different communication options including instant messaging IM voice and video. System also includes non volatile storage within memory . Non volatile storage may be used to store persistent information that should not be lost if system is powered down. Applications may use and store information in non volatile storage such as e mail or other messages used by an e mail application contact information used by a PIM documents used by a word processing application and the like. A synchronization application not shown also resides on system and is programmed to interact with a corresponding synchronization application resident on a host computer to keep the information stored in non volatile storage synchronized with corresponding information stored at the host computer. In some embodiments non volatile storage includes the aforementioned flash memory in which the OS and possibly other software is stored.

As briefly described above the applications may include a variety of applications useful in providing information in support of the voice communication between parties engaged in voice communications. For example the applications may include word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs electronic scheduling calendaring voice recognition engine and contacts programs for example MICROSOFT OUTLOOK with which electronic mail calendaring information scheduling information and contacts information may be maintained by a first call party on a second call party in data storage on the telephone computing device . When a call is initiated call data other than caller identification data may be automatically distributed to one or all callers involved in the voice communication. Upon initiation of the call an indicator may be generated or retrieved from data storage. The indicator may include metadata used for identifying information that may be associated with the initiated call. The indicator is processed to identify the files to be searched for information associated with the call. The information derived from the search is retrieved and all or a portion of the files may be transmitted to a party participating in a call while the call is in progress. The portion of the data transmitted is controlled by a set of data transmission rules that transmits data depending upon the type of communication devices involved in the call. In the present embodiment it is contemplated that the mobile computing device is communicating on a network that facilitates both data and voice transmission. It is also contemplated that all data may be transmitted with the understanding that certain types of data cannot be received by certain voice communication devices. The types of voice communication devices include but are not limited to analog phones digital phones VOIP phones video phones computers smart phones and mobile computing devices.

By way of example once a call is initiated part of the metadata being transmitted with a call that is linked with the data associated with a party being called may be a spreadsheet name the actual spreadsheet or a link to a shared data site at which callers participating in a call may be provided temporary access in order to access a folder or file share. The information may be stored at storage .

The applications may include additional applications useful for providing automatic information distribution over a network during voice communications between at least two parties or one call party s interaction with a computer system. An application could be used to analyze the content of the call or how the call originated. Information collected from the analysis could be used to facilitate sending information. For example a global positioning system GPS application for obtaining location information for the calling or called party may be provided. In this example if the calling party is calling from the mobile telephone computing device a global positioning system application may be utilized for determining a location of the calling party and for presenting that information to the called party as part of the information presented to the called party. Other positioning systems may be utilized as alternates to a global positioning system. For example an application programming interface API may be utilized in the mobile computing device for calling a local or remote location service or computer system and for passing contact information or other identifying information for a calling party to a location service that responds to the identifying information by returning location information such as a map for the location at which the calling party is located. More specifically if mobile computing device includes GPS capabilities an individual out biking or walking that happens to be within range of a WiFi hot spot the GPS would identify the individual s location through the GPS receiver in the individual s mobile telephone or other handheld device. The system within the mobile computing receives information indicating that the individual is biking or walking and desires a map of the area map of parks or bike trails. Upon an indication that for example the individual is biking the individual may be automatically supplied with a map of bike trails within an area or the fastest route to a specified location. Alternatively the individual may have to signify to a service or system that a map of bike trails is needed and the map would be transmitted to the individual s computing and communication device.

The mobile computing devices and having the mobile voice communication system illustrated in are operative to provide a variety of information packets comprised of actual files and or links to files or websites to a called party s communication device. As illustrated in communication device includes a speech to text converter module and a content analyzer . The speech to text converter module converts the words spoken by parties involved in a telephone call to text. The content analyzer filters the converted text and infers key words to be used for searching by the search engine . The search engine searches for data within the computing device data storage for actual files and or links to files or websites that are mapped to the keywords inferred by the content analyzer . Following the identification of actual files and or links to files or websites in response to searching the keywords generated by the content analyzer this information is transmitted across communications network to the computing device of another party during the voice communication. It is contemplated that in addition to transmitting actual files and or links to files or websites to communication device communication device may be pre programmed to also send the information transmitted to an email address associated with the party to whom a call is placed. The email address may be accessed automatically from one of the applications running on communication device such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK. The architecture of the present invention is described above with the use of mobile computing devices and . However it is contemplated that the computing devices may be equally operative as wired telephones.

In the client to client environment communication device also includes a speech to text converter module and a content analyzer . The speech to text converter converts the words spoken by parties involved in a telephone call to text. The content analyzer processes the converted text and infers key words to be used for searching by the search engine . The search engine searches for data within the communication device data storage for actual files and or links to files or websites that are mapped to the keywords inferred by the content analyzer . Following the identification of actual files and or links to files or websites in response to searching the keywords generated by the content analyzer this information is transmitted across communications network to the communication device of the call initiating party during the voice communication.

Referring back to the speech to text converter STT module is a software application operative to receive an audible input from a called or calling party and for recognizing the audible input for use facilitating the conversion of conversation into keywords that may be used to search for content that may be distributed to callers involved in communication on a computing device. As is well known to those skilled in the art the STT engine may access a large lexicon or library of spoken words it has been trained to understand and to recognize for example names places nouns verbs articles or any other word of a designated spoken language for generating text representative of the spoken word. The lexicon of spoken words may be stored at storage . According to embodiments of the present invention once spoken words are converted to text the text may be accessed and displayed on display . In addition these converted spoken words are also processed by content analyzer in order to infer key words that are used for database searching to identify information relevant to the spoken words. The converted spoken words are also processed by the content analyzer which may infer functions.

For example one of the parties in a phone conversation states I wonder if Susan Johnson is available next Tuesday at 10 A.M. The content analyzer will infer from these words that a determination should be made as to whether Susan Johnson is available next Tuesday at 10 A.M and attempt to make such a determination by accessing Susan Johnson s electronic calendar to the extent the calling party has such access. As part of this analysis the system would identify who Susan Johnson is based on all the other Susan Johnson s that the system is aware of As part of the inquiry the system would search the call initiating party s and the call receiving party s corporate directories for Susan Johnson. If the system can identify Susan Johnson the system shall access Susan s schedule and determine her availability. Upon determination of her availability a communication shall be sent to all parties involved in the call advising of her availability. The communication may be text or verbal. Verbal communication shall be accomplished by utilizing the text to speech module .

If the system cannot identify Susan Johnson it may interactively seek input from a caller to determine who Susan is. In one embodiment the system may ask a question using whatever format is available. For example the system may drop the volume of the call and query a caller which Susan Johnson did you mean The system could mute the phone of a caller during the inquiry to allow the caller to answer and without other callers involved in the call being aware that this has occurred. The system may also be configured to allow automatic determination of Susan Johnson. For example if some of the callers know the Susan Johnson to whom a caller is referring because one or more callers personally works with Susan Johnson and communicates with her regularly the system can be programmed to know that a mentioning of Susan Johnson in a call of specific callers are involved party refers to a specific Susan Johnson.

In addition to identifying a person the system attempts to identify the type of medium upon which the parties are communicating and the performance parameters thereof For example if the callers are communicating on simple mobile phones or hard wired phones that do not have broadband data or visual display capability more than likely the system will not attempt to transmit a picture or attempt to bring Susan Johnson into the telephone conference via video conference. On the other hand if a caller is on a megabit system and has a 20 inch display monitor and a camera and typically the caller uses video conferences the system may attempt to include Susan Johnson by way of video conference. The manner in which Susan John is joined in a conference would depend on the type of medium she has access to and the information that Susan may need to be conveyed.

The voice communication system also includes a text to speech TTS module . The TTS module is a software application operative to receive text based information to generate an audible announcement from the received information. As is well known to those skilled in the art the TTS module may access a large lexicon or library of spoken words for example names places nouns verbs articles or any other word of a designated spoken language for generating an audible announcement for a given portion of text. The lexicon of spoken words may be stored at storage . According to embodiments of the present invention once an audible announcement is generated from a given portion of text the audible announcement may be played via the audio interface of the telephone computing device through a speaker earphone or headset associated with the telephone . For example following a determination that Susan John is not available for a meeting on the next Tuesday at 10 A.M. the content analyzer processes such information and infers a text statement such as Susan Johnson is not available for a meeting next Tuesday at 10 A.M. and sends it to the TTS module . The TTS module may utilize a large lexicon of spoken words to generate an audible announcement of Susan Johnson is not available for a meeting next Tuesday at 10 A.M. that may be played to the parties involved with the telephone call via a speaker on a voice computing device or via an associated earphone or headset.

The voice communication system also includes a voice command VC module . The VC module is a software application operative to receive audible input at the mobile computing device and to convert the audible input to a command that may be used to push specific content from mobile computing device or from a server. According to one embodiment the VC module may be comprised of a large lexicon of spoken words a recognition function and an action function. The lexicon of spoken words may be stored at storage . When a command is spoken into a microphone of the telephone computing device the voice command module receives the spoken command and passes the spoken command to a recognition function that parses the spoken words and applies the parsed spoken words to the lexicon of spoken words for recognizing each spoken word. Once the spoken words are recognized by the recognition function a recognized command for example transmit the latest version of RTC whitepaper may be passed to an action functionality that may be operative to direct the activities of the telephone . For example a spoken phrase such as transmit the latest version of RTC whitepaper may be utilized by the voice command module to invoke the data retrieval functionality of the telephone or a server to locate the latest version of the RTC whitepaper and transmits it to other individuals participating in the call.

System has a power supply which may be implemented as one or more batteries. Power supply might further include an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements or recharges the batteries.

System may also include a radio that performs the function of transmitting and receiving radio frequency communications. Radio facilitates wireless connectivity between system and the outside world via a communications carrier or service provider. Transmissions to and from radio are conducted under control of OS . In other words communications received by radio may be disseminated to application programs via OS and vice versa.

Radio allows system to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. Radio is one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

This embodiment of system is shown with two types of notification output devices. The LED may be used to provide visual notifications and an audio interface may be used with speaker to provide audio notifications. These devices may be directly coupled to power supply so that when activated they remain on for a duration dictated by the notification mechanism even though processor and other components might shut down for conserving battery power. LED may be programmed to remain on indefinitely until the user takes action to indicate the powered on status of the device. Audio interface is used to provide audible signals to and receive audible signals from the user. For example in addition to being coupled to speaker audio interface may also be coupled to a microphone to receive audible input such as to facilitate a telephone conversation. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the microphone may also serve as an audio sensor to facilitate control of notifications as will be described below.

System may further include video interface that enables an operation of on board camera to record still images video stream and the like. According to some embodiments different data types received through one of the input devices such as audio video still image ink entry and the like may be integrated in a unified environment along with textual data by applications .

A mobile computing device implementing system may have additional features or functionality. For example the device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Referring now to an embodiment of the invention in which the system is configured for client to server communications is described. In this embodiment the mobile computing devices and transmit and receive voice and data communications in a manner similar to that described in . In addition server also includes a speech to text converter module a content analyzer module and a search engine . The speech to text converter module converts the words spoken by parties involved in a telephone call to text. The content analyzer processes the converted text and infers key words to be used for searching by the search engine . The search engine searches for data within server data storage for actual files and or links to files or websites that are mapped to the keywords inferred by the content analyzer . Following the identification of actual files and or links to files or websites in response to searching the keywords generated by the content analyzer module this information is transmitted across communications networks and to communication devices and of the parties participating in the call. It is to be understood that if there are multiple parties involved in the call the server facilitates the transmission of data to all or select parties. It is contemplated that in addition to transmitting actual files and or links to files or websites to communication devices and of the parties participating in the call server may also be configured to send the information transmitted to communication devices and to an email address associated with the parties on the call. The email address may be accessed automatically from one of the applications running on server such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK that includes contact and other information for individuals involved in the call. The present invention is illustrated as part of a mobile telephone but could be equally operative on a wired telephone.

As illustrated in the modules that drive the functionality of the automatic information distribution of the present invention may be on a server only client only or on both the client and server. It is also contemplated that a third party service with servers in the communication cloud at a data center in some remote location may be performing portions of the analysis necessary to perform the querying filtering voice recognition speech to text conversion and information retrieval and transmission necessary for automatic information transmission. In the client to client environment illustrated in the automatic information distribution functionality of the present invention is resident on communication devices and . In this embodiment modules for controlling voice recognition speech to text content analysis content inference querying identification of information and subsequent transmission are all located on communication devices and . illustrates an alternative embodiment in which the automatic information distribution functionality of the present invention is resident on server . In this embodiment modules for controlling speech to text content analysis content inference querying identification of information and subsequent transmission are also located on server . The automatic information distribution functions may all or partially be carried out via server . It is contemplated that in this environment a party may be using a basic analog phone or digital phone. In this environment server utilizes metadata associated with the phone number from which a call is initiated and metadata associated with the phone number to which a call is made to identify files and information within data storage that may be relevant to the callers. Type of data and the amount transmitted depends on the communication device used by a caller.

Having described an operating environment for and components of a system that facilitates automatic information distribution during a call with reference to above is a logical flow diagram illustrating a method for automatically providing call data other than caller identification data following initiation of a call. The routine begins at start operation and proceeds to operation where a call is initiated . The system receives an indicator associated with the initiated call that includes metadata that is used for identifying information that may be associated with the initiated call. The system retrieves the metadata from the indicator and processes the metadata to identify information associated therewith. Processing of metadata involves searching a database for information associated with the metadata and retrieving the information and preparing it for transmission to parties involved in the telephone call. The method of automatic information distribution also involves the capturing of speech from the conversation between parties and converting the speech to text . The text is further filtered and refined to generate keywords for use in data base searching that facilitates the retrieval of data associated with keywords form a database . Next a determination of the communication medium upon which the telephone call is transmitted is determined along with a determination of the type of communication devices being used by the callers involved in the communication . Based on the type of communication medium and the type of communication devices involved in the communication data is filtered and only data compatible with the device or communication medium is transmitted . While the call is in progress the routine loops back to operation to obtain new metadata associated with the call as the call proceeds. The routine ends at operation

An example of the system functioning in a client server environment would be when an individual calls into a customer service center and is communicating with a customer service representative. By way of example the customer indicates to the customer service representative that their ABC brand laptop is no longer working. Information concerning ABC brand laptops is transmitted to the customer service representative. More likely than not the computer may pose a question on the display for the customer service representative instructing them to ask the caller for the model of the laptop and what their name is. Upon the customer providing the model name of the laptop and what their name is the voice recognition module shall transmit text to the content analyzer which generates keywords which are used to locate the individual s records concerning their warranty on their ABC laptop. Upon an indication of the problem by the customer the system transmits to the customer service representative a list of steps which are to be used in trouble shooting the problem with the computer. When the customer service representative provides the first step and the person indicates I already tried that the system can understand that communication and skip to the next logical step allowing the customer service representative to perform process of elimination a lot faster and thereby speed this type of customer service interaction. The speech to text converter module and content analyzer module that automatically generates keywords for searching can help the customer service representative and the customer identify issues and solve problems at a faster pace based on the system drawing inferences from comments by the customer.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

