---

title: Technique for effective navigation based on user preferences
abstract: In a navigation device, user profiles may be stored and used to navigate a user who may be driving in a vehicle, on foot, or in another mode of transportation. Each user profile corresponds to one of the user's personae. In one embodiment the user business profile corresponds to the user's business persona, which is different from the user personal profile corresponding to the user's personal persona. The navigation device provides the user with a navigated route, together with information concerning the favorite facilities and events surrounding the navigated route, which satisfy the preferences in a selected user profile. In some embodiments, blockages may be established using the device to avoid selected areas, e.g., high crime areas, in the navigated route, or to block transmission of selected information concerning, e.g., uninteresting facilities and events, to the navigation device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467961&OS=08467961&RS=08467961
owner: Silver State Intellectual Technologies, Inc.
number: 08467961
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080108
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 146 599 filed on Jun. 7 2005 now U.S. pat. No. 7 522 992 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 957 042 filed on Oct. 1 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 993 429 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 382 687 filed on Mar. 6 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 829 532 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 830 064 filed on Apr. 20 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 542 812 which is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT US00 27270 filed on Oct. 4 2000 which was published under PCT Article 12 2 in English and which claims the priority of Provisional Application No. 60 160 326 filed on Oct. 19 1999.

The invention relates to a navigation technique and more particularly to a technique for navigation subject to user preferences.

Recently navigation systems based on global positioning system GPS technology were developed for use in an automobile. Such navigation systems are capable of receiving signals from a constellation of satellites which is part of the GPS. Based on the received signals one such navigation system identifies the automobile s location e.g. in latitude and longitude. The navigation system also detects the automobile s speed and direction. With geographic information stored in an on board computer in the automobile the navigation system is capable of audio visually communicating to a user instructions for reaching a given destination.

Similarly a GPS navigation device in hand held form enables a user carrying the device to monitor his her planned route leading to a given destination. Nowadays in general hand held devices for information organization and communications are popular and have been proliferating. For example use of cellular phones for communications is ubiquitous. Use of personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PALM type hand held devices is equally ubiquitous for organizing personal information including meeting schedules telephone listing address information etc. More recently hand held communicators emerged which have cellular communication and modem facilities integrated into a PDA thereby enabling a user to communicate data in a wireless manner e.g. to send and receive email and to upload and download information from websites via the Internet.

Traditionally a navigation device e.g. a GPS navigation system used in an automobile provides a user with directions to a given destination. The navigation typically provides the shortest navigated route in terms of distance to the given destination. However we have expanded the concept of the traditional navigation to broadly include providing a navigated route subject to user preferences together with information concerning facilities and events surrounding the navigated route for the user s convenience. The navigated route is selected to satisfy a trip s purpose. Such a trip s purpose may be 1 to reach a given destination as in prior art and or 2 to perform certain tasks enroute or at the destination which may include purchasing business supplies shopping for gifts dining obtaining entertainments etc. To realize 2 the navigator arrangement in accordance with the invention allows for storage of user profiles including user preferences such as preferred types of restaurants shops entertainments etc.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention each user profile corresponds to one of the user s personae. For example the user business profile corresponding to the user s business persona may be different from the user personal profile corresponding to his her personal persona. For instance the user business profile may include fine dining type restaurants for business meetings while the user personal profile may instead include fast food type restaurants for personal dining. Thus the navigator arrangement in accordance with the invention provides a navigated route together with information concerning the favorite facilities and events surrounding the navigated route which satisfy the preferences in a selected user profile.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the user can adopt a second person s profile for a trip s purpose particular to that second person thereby temporarily assuming the second person s persona to achieve such a trip s purpose.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention the actual navigated route selected by the inventive navigator arrangement may depend on the mode of transportation specified by the user. For example driving and walking are two different modes of transportation. The selected route for driving may be very different from that for walking even though they may accomplish the same trip s purpose. The routes from which the inventive navigator arrangement selects for driving have to be passable by an automobile which exclude e.g. foot bridges and walk paths through buildings parks fields forests etc. On the other hand the routes from which the inventive navigator arrangement selects for walking have to be safe to pedestrians which exclude e.g. highways freeways etc.

In accordance with still yet another aspect of the invention the actual route selected by the inventive navigator arrangement may also depend on external conditions e.g. traffic weather and road conditions. Thus based on the information concerning such external conditions received from say a server via the Internet the inventive navigator arrangement selects the most time efficient route e.g. one that requires the least travel time to accomplish the trip s purpose despite any adverse traffic weather and road conditions.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention a user may prescribe one or more roadblocks specifying certain prohibited areas or paths from which the route selected by the inventive navigator arrangement deviates. For example it may be sensible to place roadblocks around high crime areas especially when the user is new in town and unfamiliar with those areas. A roadblock may be permanent or temporary. For example a temporary roadblock may be placed on certain streets where a parade is held which lasts for several hours. Similar to a roadblock a blockade may be imposed to block transmission of certain information to the inventive navigator arrangement which concerns e.g. uninteresting facilities or events.

As shown in navigator arrangement includes processor memory display driver display user interface external interfaces GPS receiver communication unit . Memory is used to store software and data for processor to carry out various operations of arrangement . In this instance the stored software includes a navigator browser similar to the well known NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR or MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser for browsing information provided e.g. by servers connected to the Internet. In particular the navigator browser works compatibly with the standard hypertext transfer protocol HTTP hypertext markup language HTML virtual reality markup language VRML graphics interchange format GIF JAVA applets etc.

Display may include a conventional liquid crystal display LCD . Through display driver processor controls the display of text and graphics on display in a predetermined format. User interface may comprise conventional audio circuitry including a microphone and speaker for the user to communicate with arrangement via audio media. User interface may also comprise an indicator device e.g. a mouse touchpad roller ball or a combination thereof which enables a user to move a cursor on display and to e.g. point and click at a displayed option or an icon to select same. In addition interface may incorporate well known touch screen circuitry not shown . With this circuitry the user can interact with processor e.g. using a finger or a stylus to touch the surface of display which is tactile sensitive. Processor receives from the touch screen circuitry a signal identifying the location on display where it has been touched. If such a location matches the predetermined location of one of displayed options or icons processor determines that the option or icon has been selected. Otherwise a cursor is placed at the touched location on display prompting for an input from the user.

The user input may be realized using a virtual keyboard shown on display also provided by the touch screen circuitry. In a well known manner characters are input by touching the corresponding keys on the virtual keyboard. Alternatively processor may be programmed to recognize handwritten characters and may receive through the touch screen circuitry images of characters drawn by the user on display . Any recognized characters corresponding to the drawn images then become the user input. Still alternatively through one of external interfaces arrangement can be connected to a keyboard device or a personal computer PC having a keyboard for user input.

However we have recognized that the traditional ways of inputting data to a hand held device are inefficient. For example user input by drawn images of characters is often susceptible to inaccurate character recognition by the device thus requiring repeated input of the same characters which is frustrating. Limited by the size of a display in a hand held device a virtual keyboard does not afford much room to each character key thereon. As a result data entry using the virtual keyboard is also error prone. Inputting data to a hand held device using a physical keyboard connected thereto is undesirable because of the bulkiness of the keyboard which defeats the purpose of having the hand held device for its easy transportability in the first place.

However navigator arrangement is designed pursuant to an object to minimize data entry by the user. To the extent possible databases in arrangement are pre populated with data which the user may edit to satisfy his her needs. In addition arrangement allows for downloading of data from a remote source to supplement and update the databases in arrangement and to provide thereto just in time information including e.g. latest traffic weather map and other information. To that end transceiver in communication unit includes e.g. cellular telephone circuitry for transmitting and receiving information via a wireless communications network e.g. the well known advanced mobile phone service AMPS network digital AMPS network personal communications service PCS network global system for mobile communications GSM network etc. Modem is used for modulating and demodulating carriers carrying the information through data channels e.g. cellular digital packet data CDPD channels in the wireless communications network.

Traditionally a navigation device e.g. a GPS navigation system used in an automobile provides a user with directions to a given destination. The navigation typically provides the shortest navigated route in terms of distance to the given destination. However we have expanded the concept of the traditional navigation to broadly include providing a navigated route subject to user preferences together with information concerning facilities and events surrounding the navigated route for the user s convenience. The navigated route is selected to satisfy a trip s purpose. Such a trip s purpose may be 1 to reach a given destination as in prior art and or 2 to perform certain tasks enroute or at the destination which may include purchasing business supplies shopping for gifts dining obtaining entertainments etc. To realize 2 navigator arrangement in accordance with the invention allows for storage of user profiles including user preferences such as preferred types of restaurants shops entertainments etc.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention each user profile corresponds to one of the user s personae. For example the user business profile corresponding to the user s business persona may be different from the user personal profile corresponding to his her personal persona. For instance the user business profile may include fine dining type restaurants for business meetings while the user personal profile may instead include fast food type restaurants for personal dining. Other profiles may include a vacation profile which corresponds to the user s vacation persona and may include a different set of preferred restaurants shops entertainments etc.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the user can adopt a second person s profile for a certain trip s purpose thereby temporarily assuming the second person s persona especially when arrangement is shared by more than one person. For example where a husband and wife share the use of arrangement the husband may utilize the wife s profile in arrangement to shop for a gift for the wife s birthday. Based on the profile corresponding to the wife s personal persona arrangement provides a navigated route together with information concerning the wife s personal favorite shops surrounding the route. Of course each user s profiles may be protected against uninvited intruders. In that case access to the profiles may require verification of a personal identification number PIN or password or other well known secure access measures. Profiles may also be imported or downloaded into arrangement from an external source or from another arrangement similar to arrangement .

Thus in accordance with the invention arrangement provides a navigated route together with information concerning the favorite facilities and events surrounding the navigated route which satisfy the preferences in a selected user profile. In this instance such information comes from an external source e.g. a server connected to the Internet and is communicated to arrangement through communication unit .

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the actual navigated route selected by arrangement may depend on the mode of transportation specified by the user. For example driving and walking are two different modes of transportation. The selected route for driving may be very different from that for walking even though they may accomplish the same trip s purpose. The routes from which arrangement selects for driving have to be passable by an automobile which exclude e.g. foot bridges and walk paths through buildings parks fields forests etc. On the other hand the routes from which arrangement selects for walking have to be safe to pedestrians which exclude e.g. highways freeways etc.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention the actual route selected by arrangement may also depend on external conditions e.g. traffic weather and road conditions. Thus based on the information concerning such external conditions received from say a server via the Internet arrangement selects the most time efficient route e.g. one that requires the least travel time to accomplish the trip s purpose despite any adverse traffic weather and road conditions.

In accordance with still yet another aspect of the invention a user may prescribe one or more roadblocks specifying certain prohibited areas or paths from which the route selected by arrangement deviates. For example it may be sensible to place roadblocks around high crime areas especially when the user is new in town and unfamiliar with those areas. A roadblock may be permanent or temporary. For example a temporary roadblock may be placed on certain streets where a parade is held which lasts for several hours. Similar to a roadblock a blockade may be imposed to block transmission of certain information to arrangement which concerns e.g. uninteresting facilities or events.

When a user initially utilizes arrangement for navigation in accordance with the invention the navigator browser in arrangement opens a REGISTRATION page on display . illustrates such a REGISTRATION page where the user is prompted for entering his her personal data e.g. his her name age sex marital status occupation city education religion and number of children.

After the entry of the personal data the navigator browser opens a PROFILE SETTING page on display . illustrates such a PROFILE SETTING page for the user to set up a profile corresponding to one of his her personae. The user here is afforded a choice of business personal and vacation personae in box . By way of example the user in this instance wants to set up a personal profile which includes preferences of the user while on personal travel as opposed to business travel or vacation travel . Thus the user may use a stylus to touch the personal option as opposed to the business or vacation option in box on display to select the option.

In addition the user is prompted to select preferences in different categories to be included in his her personal profile. For example these categories may comprise MUSIC category ENTERTAINMENT category SHOPPING category RECREATION category SPORTS category RESTAURANTS category and SERVICES category . In this instance the user selects COUNTRY option and JAZZ option in MUSIC category for his her music preferences. Similarly the user may also select any options in other categories for inclusion in his her personal profile. Each selected option is illustratively indicated by a check mark at the option. Other profiles such as a business profile and vacation profile may be similarly set up.

Continuing the above example after setting up his her personal profile the user selects SUBMIT option . In response processor in obtains from GPS receiver data concerning the GPS coordinates of the current location of arrangement . Based on the signals from a constellation of satellites which form part of the GPS receiver in a well known manner determines the GPS coordinates in question. Processor then creates a record associated with the user. illustrates the format of such a record denoted created by processor in memory . Record comprises section containing the aforementioned personal data including among others the user s name which identifies record . Section contains any business profile set up by the user. Section in this instance contains the personal profile described above. Section contains any vacation profile set up by the user. Section contains the aforementioned GPS data indicating the current location of arrangement . Section contains map and related information based on which processor is capable of generating maps which correspond to different modes of transportation e.g. by automobile on foot or by rail. Such map and related information also includes identities of facilities and events and the GPS coordinates identifying the locations of such facilities and events on the maps. Section contains business favorites which are determined based on the personal data in section business profile in section and GPS data in section. . Similarly section contains personal favorites which are determined based on the personal data in section personal profile in section and GPS data in section and section contains vacation favorites which are determined based on the personal data in section vacation profile in section and GPS data in section . It should be noted at this point that the information in sections and is provided by a navigation server connected to the Internet.

Continuing the above example processor in this instance causes the navigator browser in arrangement to generate a request to the navigation server for the map and related information in section and personal favorites in section . This request contains the personal data in section personal profile in section GPS data in section a pre assigned Internet protocol IP address for identifying the browser as the request originator and a predetermined uniform resource locator URL identifying the navigation server on the Internet. It should be noted that the GPS data in section is refreshed continually and in particular each time immediately before a request is sent to the navigation server to reflect the most current location of arrangement . The request is formatted in accordance with the requisite protocols including the well known transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP in this instance.

Referring to processor causes communication unit in navigator arrangement to establish a dial up connection through wireless communications network to access server maintained by an Internet service provider ISP . The aforementioned request is then transmitted to access server through the established connection. Upon receipt of the request based on the URL therein access server routes the request to navigation server identified by the URL. It should be noted at this point that server may not be the only access server on the Internet serving arrangement and the like. It will be appreciated that more access servers similar to server are geographically distributed for effective communications with arrangement and the like.

Navigation server which may be a host computer provides the navigation service in accordance with the invention. Among other things server receives data from different sources and maintains numerous databases therein including a map database a weather database a traffic database a road condition database a subscriber database a non subscriber database etc.

The map database provides data concerning maps covering various geographic areas. Each map includes layers corresponding to different modes of transportation. For example a first map layer corresponds to travel by automobile a second map layer corresponds to travel on foot a third map layer corresponds to travel by rail etc. The map layers can be combined to facilitate travel by more than one mode of transportation. Buildings locations streets roadways and the like in the map layers are defined and identified in the database by their GPS coordinates.

The weather database contains data concerning weather conditions in various geographic areas which is collected and updated by server from time to time using such systems as the United States satellite systems Delta radars local area radars etc. The data concerning the weather conditions is stored in the weather database according to the GPS coordinates defining the areas affected by the weather conditions respectively. As such each weather condition is readily mapped to the area defined by the corresponding GPS coordinates in the map layers.

Similarly the traffic and road condition databases each contain data concerning traffic and road conditions which is updated and derived by server from official traffic and road condition reports furnished by local departments of transportation and from data provided by well known radar systems such as line of sight radars and Doppler radars each with terrain following capabilities to sense surrounding traffic and road conditions. The data concerning the traffic conditions road conditions is stored in the traffic road condition database according to the GPS coordinates defining the areas affected by the traffic conditions road conditions respectively. As such each traffic condition road condition is readily mapped to the area defined by the corresponding GPS coordinates in the map layers.

The subscriber database in server contains data concerning commercial facilities and events e.g. department stores gas stations concerts etc. which subscribe to the navigation service. With payment of a subscription fee the subscribers may appear in the map layers for promotional purposes. The identities of the subscribers are stored in the subscriber database according to the GPS coordinates of the locations of such subscribers along with other information concerning their address contact phone number web URL business hours advertisement promotion directory etc.

The non subscriber database in server contains data concerning public facilities e.g. parks hospitals and rest stops and civic and charity events which are selected to appear in the map layer without payment of a subscription fee. The identities of such non subscribers are stored in the non subscriber database according to the GPS coordinates of their locations along with other information concerning their address contact phone number web URL charity or civic functions etc.

Continuing the above example upon receiving the request from arrangement based on the personal data personal profile and GPS data therein server determines the user s personal favorites as requested e.g. favorite personal facilities and events within a limited navigation coverage e.g. defined by a predetermined radius from the GPS coordinates identified by the GPS data. Such favorite facilities and events may be selected from the above described subscriber and non subscriber databases. In addition based on the map weather traffic road condition subscriber and non subscriber databases server provides the requested map and related information which concerns i the map layers affording the limited navigation coverage ii the weather traffic and road conditions relevant to the coverage iii the subscribers and non subscribers appear in the coverage and iv a time stamp indicating when the map and related information is provided. Since even with the same navigation coverage the weather traffic and road conditions in ii vary with time. As such the map and related information is time sensitive and thus includes the time stamp in iv to ensure its just in time provision.

Server then transmits a response which contains a the IP address of the navigator browser in arrangement to which the response is destined b the personal favorite facilities and events just determined and the GPS coordinates thereof and c the map and related information in accordance with the predetermined protocols. Upon receiving the response processor in arrangement causes the received b and c to be stored in sections and of record respectively.

When the content of section is modified as is in this case the resulting list of personal favorites is automatically displayed for the user s review. illustrates such a personal favorite list denoted shown on display which includes e.g. Home Depot Wells Fargo Vons Chevron Jack in the Box . . . .

It should be noted at this point that the personal favorites selected by server may vary with the GPS data identifying the current location of arrangement even though the personal data and personal profile remain the same. This stems from the fact that the selected favorite facilities and events may be limited to certain areas. When such facilities or events are outside the current navigation coverage they are either eliminated or substituted by server with similar facilities or events in accordance with predetermined program instructions in server . For example Jack in the Box which is a popular fast food restaurant in California but unavailable in New York may be substituted with Wendy s when the navigation coverage includes New York. In addition server may add to the personal favorite list those facilities and events which satisfy the personal data and personal profile and which would otherwise be unavailable had it not been the current navigation coverage.

Advantageously when a user travels from one navigation coverage to another based on the same personal data and personal profile and the current personal favorite list server can clone personal favorite lists which correspond to different navigation coverages. Similarly server can clone business favorite lists corresponding to different navigation coverages based on the same personal data and business profile and the current business favorite list and vacation favorite lists corresponding to different navigation coverages based on the same personal data and vacation profile and the current vacation favorite list. Thus with arrangement the user s lifestyle is maintained as much as possible despite traveling from place to place.

List in tends to be overinclusive. The user is afforded EDIT option to modify the list to satisfy his her needs. For example to delete an item in list the item is selected followed by a selection of EDIT option . Processor overwrites the content of section of record with the resulting list of personal favorites.

As mentioned before the user may sometimes want to adopt another person s profile for a certain trip s purpose e.g. buying a gift for that person. Thus the user is also afforded preset profiles in arrangement from which the user may select. Such preset profiles may be accessed by selecting PRESET PROFILE option on the PROFILE SETTING page of . illustrates preset Profiles through corresponding to profiles of a typical Man Woman Business Man Business Woman Senior Citizen and Teenager. For example the user may be a female and want to buy a gift for a man in a business setting. In that case the user may want to view the preferences in Profile of a business man using VIEW option and may select such a profile using SELECT option thereby assuming a man s business persona. After such a selection a list of favorites corresponding to Profile would be downloaded from navigation server for the user s review in a manner described above. The user may then get a gift idea from the favorite list and request arrangement to navigate her to a selected favorite facility to buy the gift.

It should be noted that the user may also start with one or more of preset profiles in which the user may edit to become his her business personal and or vacation profile described above.

Referring back to after the business personal and or vacation favorite list is established the user may select NAVIGATE option for navigation by arrangement in accordance with the invention. Upon such a selection by the user the navigator browser in arrangement opens a NAVIGATION page on display . illustrates the NAVIGATION page where the user is prompted to select the mode of transportation e.g. By Automobile On Foot or By Rail in box and the list of favorites e.g. Personal Business or Vacation favorites in box used during the current navigation episode.

By way of example the user in this instance is on a personal road trip and thus selects By Automobile as the mode of transportation and Personal as the favorite list used. In response the navigator browser opens a DIRECTIONS page on display . illustrates such a DIRECTIONS page where the user is prompted to enter an origination address at query where the navigation starts. In this instance the user adopts the default response to query which is the location identified by the GPS data in section of record . Otherwise the user may enter a different origination address. The user is also prompted to enter a destination address at query . The user in this instance enters a home address as the destination address. To avoid re entering the same address in the future the user may select LOCATIONS option to save the address. In that case the user is prompted to assign an icon e.g. icon and a designation e.g. HOME to the home address. Thus in the future the user may select icon in location box to retrieve the corresponding home address in response to query or . Similarly in location box icon corresponds to a previously saved address of a delicatessen and icon corresponds to a previously saved address of a fitness center.

Alternatively addresses in locations box may be saved by clicking at icons elsewhere and duplicating same in box . For example icon in location box corresponding to a Wells Fargo bank address results from clicking at icon in favorites box described below with and duplicating same in box .

After learning the origination address and destination address responsive to queries and respectively processor analyzes the map and related information stored in section of record . Specifically processor determines whether the navigation coverage based on the map layer corresponding to automobile travel in this instance includes the origination and destination addresses and whether the stored map and related information is fresh as indicated at step in . If the navigation coverage includes the origination and destination addresses in question and the period elapsed from the time stamp of the stored map and related information does not exceed a predetermined period i.e. the stored map and related information is fresh based on such map and related information processor at step selects the route from the origination address to the destination address which is the most time efficient i.e. fastest by automobile in this instance taking into account the relevant weather traffic and road conditions along the selected route together with any roadblocks set up by the user in a manner to be described. Such a selection process is achieved by analyzing the portion of the map and related information concerning the weather traffic and road conditions and roadblocks in the navigation coverage and involves predictions concerning the effects of such conditions on the automobile travel along the selected route at different points in time. At step processor causes turn by turn instructions concerning the selected route to be shown on the DIRECTIONS page.

Otherwise if the stored map and related information does not cover the origination and or destination address in question and or if the map and related information is not fresh processor at step establishes a communication connection to navigation server . At step processor causes a transmission of a request for fresh map and related information for an appropriate navigation coverage through the established connection. This request contains among other things the personal favorites in section personal data in section and personal profile in section of record in addition to the origination and destination address information. In response to such a request navigation server prepares new map and related information for the coverage from at least the origination address to the destination address. In addition based on the new map and related information the received personal favorite list personal data and personal profile server clones a personal favorite list from the received list. As discussed before this cloned list may be different from the received list to reflect any geographic differences between the previous and current navigation coverages. At step processor receives from server the new map and related information and cloned personal favorite list. Processor at step stores them in sections and of record respectively. Again the user is afforded a chance to edit the cloned personal favorite list in a manner described before. Processor then proceeds to step described above.

Referring back to the user in this instance may rely on turn by turn instructions to reach home by automobile. If arrangement is docked or connected to the aforementioned automobile system the turn by turn instructions would be communicated by the automobile system via audio media to the user when the automobile traversing the navigated route approaches each turn.

In addition the user is afforded VIEW option to view an image of a map including the navigated route. Upon selection of option the navigator browser opens a MAP VIEWER page on display . illustrates such a MAP VIEWER page including map which corresponds to automobile travel. Map is also derived from the map and related information currently stored in section of record . The navigated route denoted for which instructions are given is highlighted on the MAP VIEWER page with preselected icon indicating the origination address previously entered and icon described above indicating the destination address previously entered.

In addition favorites box on the MAP VIEWER page lists the personal favorites currently stored in section of record . The icons which are associated with such personal favorites are populated on map to indicate the locations of such personal favorites. For example icon in box associated with the personal favorite Chevron is also shown on map to indicate its location thereon. Icon in box associated with Vons is also shown on map to indicate its location thereon. Icon in box associated with Comp USA is also shown on map to indicate its location thereon. Icon in box associated with Kmart is also shown on map to indicate its location thereon. Icon in box associated with Wells Fargo is also shown on map to indicate its location thereon.

Scene box lists scenic facilities and events which may serve as landmarks along the navigated route as the icons associated with such scenic facilities and events are also populated on map . Some scenic facilities and events may be important to the user such as a rest stop indicated by icon or McDonald s indicated by icon in case the user is hungry when traveling along the navigated route which is not close to any of his her favorite restaurants in this instance. Some scenic facilities and events may be of marginal interest to the user such as the Charity Walkathon indicated by icon . If indeed the user decides to adopt any scenic facility or event as one of his her favorites the user may use an indicator device to click at the icon associated with the scenic facility or event in either box or map and drag same into box . For example if after trying McDonald s Restaurant indicated by icon the user decides to add the restaurant to his her favorite list he she may then click at icon in either box or map and drag same into box to effect such an addition.

In this instance the user is afforded PHONE option to contact personnel of any listed facilities or events by phone. For example a selection by the user of icon followed by a selection of telephone option causes processor to look up from the map and related information stored in section of record the phone number of McDonald s Restaurant associated with icon . Processor then causes transceiver to place a voice call to McDonald s Restaurant using the phone number just looked up. Accordingly the user may talk to the personnel of the restaurant over the phone connection.

Alternatively the user is afforded INFO option to obtain further information regarding any listed facilities or events. For example a selection by the user of icon followed by a selection of INFO option causes processor to access the stored map and related information in section for video and sound clips graphics and textual information concerning McDonald s restaurant associated therewith. In this instance the processor causes user interface to announce Welcome to McDonald s and or the navigator browser to play a commercial of McDonald s Restaurant based on the video and sound clips. The navigator browser then opens a MCDONALD S RESTAURANT page on display .

A selection of BACK key enables the user to return to the previous page i.e. the MAP VIEWER page. Key represents a hyperlink to the website of the restaurant. Thus a selection of key causes the navigator browser to open the restaurant home page on display . In addition a selection of key enables the user to access the RESTAURANT MENU page which is illustrated in .

As shown in the RESTAURANT MENU page enumerates types of food and beverages served in the restaurant. Each food and beverage entry may be highlighted by selecting same. The user may order ahead the highlighted food and beverages by selecting ORDER key . Upon selection of key the navigator browser causes the order information to be transmitted through Internet to a restaurant server at a predetermined URL for processing the order. Thus the resulting order awaits the user s arrival at the restaurant.

Referring back to the user is also afforded BLOCK option whereby the user can prevent or limit the appearance of certain subscribers and non subscribers in navigation by arrangement . For example a selection by the user of icon followed by a selection of BLOCK option causes the navigator browser to send to server a request for blocking transmission of information concerning McDonald s Restaurant to arrangement . Upon receiving such a request server returns to the navigator browser an INQUIRY page which the browser then opens on display .

Any blockade choice by the user is communicated by the navigator browser in arrangement to server . The latter stores the blockade choice in a record identified by the IP address of the navigator browser. In each subsequent navigation episode server transmits to the navigator browser information concerning subscribers and non subscribers in a selective manner reflecting any blockade choice stored in the associated record.

Similarly the user is afforded ROADBLOCK option to preclude certain roadways or areas from navigation consideration by arrangement as the roadways may be hazardous for driving and the areas may have a high crime rate. For example to set up roadblocks after selecting ROADBLOCK option the user may use a stylus to trace any roadway or define any area on display to be excluded from the navigation consideration. In this instance the user chooses to block a portion of the Ortega Highway denoted and indicated by crosses thereon and area shown shaded in . In response the navigator browser may open an inquiry page similar to where the user may specify whether each roadblock is a permanent blockade or temporary blockade. Processor stores the user s choices of blockade and the GPS coordinates defining road portion and area in section of record . Based on such stored information processor accordingly selects routes circumventing road portion and area in navigation.

The user is also afforded DELETE option to remove certain displayed items in the MAP VIEWER page. For example a selection by the user of icon followed by a selection of DELETE option causes a deletion of icon from both box and map along with any information associated therewith.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous other arrangements which embody the principles of the invention and are thus within its spirit and scope.

For example navigator arrangement is disclosed herein in a form in which various functions are performed by discrete functional blocks. However any one or more of these functions could equally well be embodied in an arrangement in which the functions of any one or more of those blocks or indeed all of the functions thereof are realized for example by one or more appropriately programmed processors.

