---

title: Methods and compositions for preparing tensile strained Ge on GeSnbuffered semiconductor substrates
abstract: The present disclosure describes methods for preparing semiconductor structures, comprising forming a GeSnbuffer layer on a semiconductor substrate and forming a tensile strained Ge layer on the GeSnbuffer layer using an admixture of (GeH)CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1:10 and 1:30. The disclosure further provides semiconductor structures having highly strained Ge epilayers (e.g., between about 0.15% and 0.45%) as well as compositions comprising an admixture of (GeH)CHand GeHin a ratio of between about 1:10 and 1:30. The methods herein provide, and the semiconductor structure provide, Ge epilayers having high strain levels which can be useful in semiconductor devices for example, in optical fiber communications devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07915104&OS=07915104&RS=07915104
owner: The Arizona Board of Regents, a body corporate of the state of Arizona acting for and on behalf of Arizona State University
number: 07915104
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080604
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing dates under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 933 013 filed 4 Jun. 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention described herein was made in part with government support under grant number FA9550 06 01 0442 awarded by AFOSR under the MURI and under grant number DMR 0526734 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

Germanium has a direct band gap E 0.81 eV at room temperature see MacFarlane and Roberts 97 1714 1955 which corresponds to an optical wavelength of 1.54 m. Although this is barely enough to reach the telecom C band 1.53 m 1.56 m the very strong wavelength dependence of the absorption coefficient near the direct edge suggests that small perturbations that shift Eto lower energies should dramatically improve the performance of this material for use in optical fiber communications. The direct band gap of Ge can be reduced by alloying with Sn and by applying stress. The dependence of Eon Sn concentration has been measured and found to be stronger than predicted to the extent that the addition of only 2 of Sn increases the absorption coefficient at 1.55 m by more than one order of magnitude see D Costa et al. 73 125207 2006 . The use of stress as a perturbation is problematic because the direct band gap can only be lowered with tensile strain.

This strain cannot be obtained by growing epitaxial Ge on GeSialloys because the latter have a smaller lattice parameter. In spite of this inherent limitation tensile strained Ge has been obtained by depositing the material directly on Si at relatively high temperatures and by exploiting the smaller thermal expansion of the substrate to induce stress in the Ge epilayer when the sample is quenched from 800 C. see Ishikawa et al. 82 2044 2003 Cannon et al. 84 906 2004 Liu et al. 87 103501 2005 Wietler et al. 508 6 2006 and Liu et al. 70 155309 2004 . This process leads to biaxial tensile strains as high as 0.25 in films as thick as 1 m. While such tensile strain values may be sufficient for some photodetector designs higher strain values are necessary for most optoelectronic applications which require tunable direct gaps see Liu et al. 2004 supra .

Further limitations of the thermal expansion process include lack of precise strain control and a maximum predicted strain value of 0.3 for growth at 900 C. see Cannon et al. supra . Moreover the use of high temperatures 800 900 C. typically induces inter diffusion of the elements across the Si Ge heterojunction resulting in non uniform and potentially defective interfaces. In the context of laser applications spatial confinement requires abrupt interfaces which are precluded using this high temperature process due to the inherent elemental intermixing at the interface. In addition precise and systematic control of the final strain state has not been demonstrated using this method and this hampers the design of devices.

Thus there exists a need in the art for improved methods of preparing tensile strained Ge on semiconductor substrates.

In one aspect the present invention provides methods for preparing a semiconductor structure comprising 

In a second aspect the present invention provides semiconductor structures made by the methods of the first aspect of the invention.

In a third aspect the present invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a semiconductor substrate a GeSnbuffer layer formed over the substrate and a tensile strained Ge layer formed over the GeSnbuffer layer.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides compositions comprising GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 30.

Herein is provided an approach based for the generation of tensile strained Ge epilayers based on the creation of GeSnalloys with tunable lattice dimensions above that of Ge which serve as the critical facilitating platforms for the subsequent tensile Ge growth. In addition this approach subsumes the following distinctive features i low growth temperature that promotes the assembly of highly strained tetragonally distorted Ge structures that remain robust despite the inherent metastability. ii layer by layer growth mechanisms leading to flat surfaces chemically abrupt interfaces devoid of chemical intermixing and relatively defect free layer microstructures. Both features are enabled by exploiting the high reactivity and the pseudo surfactant behavior of the GeH CHspecies. Collectively this methodology has allowed the systematic production of Ge layers with very high tensile strains and all of the desired morphological and structural properties as discussed below. Thereby the utility of Ge can be extended into the wider infrared optoelectronic domain by tuning its fundamental optical properties using strain as a main parameter

As demonstrated herein the tensile strained Ge layers of the invention display homogeneous compositional and strain profiles low threading dislocation densities and atomically planar surfaces and the resulting semiconductor structure and methods for making it are compatible with for example selective growth optical fiber communication applications and back end CMOS telecommunication applications.

In the case of pure Ge increasing the tensile strain beyond the values allowed by the thermal expansion method is highly desirable. The so called telecom U band can be covered with a biaxial tensile strain of 0.4 . Our approach has provided strains as high as 0.45 which is suitable for generating U bands and represents the highest value ever observed. As described below the availability of Sn based buffers allows the growth of strained Ge films to be conducted at unprecedented low temperatures 350 380 C. which are compatible with selective growth and back end CMOS telecommunication applications.

The GeSnbuffer layer can be a single layer or can be a plurality of layers such as a graded layer and can be formed with a thickness ranging between 50 nm and several microns. In various embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from 50 nm to 10 microns. In various other embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from about 50 nm to 1 micron. In various embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from 50 nm to 500 nm or in a range from about 20 nm to 300 nm.

In various embodiments the Sn content varies between 1.5 and 3.5 i.e. y is between 0.015 and 0.035 . In a further embodiment the method further comprises in situ thermal cycling i at a temperature of between 500 C. and 600 C. for a period of time ranging from about 1 sec. to 120 minutes or ii by rapid thermal annealing at temperatures ranging up to about 850 900 C. for 1 100 seconds following forming of the GeSnbuffer layer on a semiconductor substrate to reduce residual strain. In a further embodiment the GeSnbuffer layer is at least 90 relaxed in various further embodiments at least 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 or more relaxed.

The Ge layer can be formed as a single layer and can be formed over or formed directly on the one or more GeSnbuffer layers as noted above with a thickness ranging between 30 200 nm or thicker depending on the critical thickness of the sample. In certain embodiments the Ge layer can be formed as a single layer and can be formed over or formed directly on the one or more GeSnbuffer layers as noted above with a thickness ranging between about 50 200 nm or thicker depending on the critical thickness of the sample.

In certain embodiments the Ge layer can be formed as a single layer directly on the one or more GeSnbuffer layers. In certain other embodiments the Ge layer can be formed as a single layer formed directly on the one or more GeSnbuffer layers as noted above with a thickness ranging between about 30 200 nm or about 50 200 nm or thicker depending on the critical thickness of the sample. It should be understood that when a layer is referred to as being on or over another layer or substrate it can be directly on the layer or substrate or an intervening layer may also be present. It should also be understood that when a layer is referred to as being on or over another layer or substrate it may cover the entire layer or substrate or a portion of the layer or substrate. It should be further understood that when a layer is referred to as being directly on another layer or substrate the two layers are in direct contact with one another with no intervening layer. It should also be understood that when a layer is referred to as being directly on another layer or substrate it may cover the entire layer or substrate or a portion of the layer or substrate.

In various embodiments the Ge layer has a tunable tensile strain of between 0.15 and 0.45 In a further embodiment the Ge layer is tetragonal tetragonal distortion leads to the split of the heavy light hole bands which ultimately leads to novel optoelectronic properties such as direct gaps and high mobilities in doped systems. As used herein tensile strain refers to deformation along a layer segment that increases in length and width when a load perturbation is applied that stretches the layer within the horizontal pane and reduces its vertical dimension.

The semiconductor substrate can be any substrate suitable for semiconductor use including but not limited to silicon silicon on insulator SiO Si Ge alloys and Si C alloys. In a preferred embodiment the substrate comprises silicon including but not limited to Si . The semiconductor substrates can be n or p doped as is familiar to those skilled in the art for example n or p doped Si .

In various embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from 50 nm to several microns. In various embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from 50 nm to 10 microns. In various other embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from about 50 nm to 1 micron. In various embodiments the semiconductor buffer layer has a thickness in a range from 50 nm to 500 nm or in a range from about 20 nm to 300 nm. In further embodiments the semiconductor buffer layers have a density of threading defects of 10 cmor less.

In a further embodiment the semiconductor substrates of the invention comprise a GeSnbuffer layer and or a Ge layer having a substantially atomically planar surface morphology i.e. essentially atomically flat . As used herein the terms substantially atomically planar and essentially atomically flat means that the referenced surface has an RMS roughness value of less than about 1.0 nm as measured by atomic force microscopy according to methods familiar to one skilled in the art. Preferably that the referenced surface has an RMS roughness value of less than about 0.75 nm or an RMS roughness value ranging from about 0.2 to 1.0 nm or about 0.3 to about 0.75 nm.

In other embodiments the Ge layers formed according to the present methods of the invention are Ge layer epitaxial. The term epitaxial as used herein means that a material is crystalline and fully commensurate with the substrate. Preferably epitaxial means that the material is monocrystalline as defined herein. The term monocrystalline as used herein means a solid in which the crystal lattice of the entire sample is continuous with no grain boundaries or very few grain boundaries as is familiar to those skilled in the art.

The methods comprise depositing the Ge layer on the buffer layer which may involve introducing into a reaction chamber a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of an admixture of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 30 or in other embodiments 1 10 to 1 25 1 11 to 1 25 1 12 to 1 25 1 13 to 1 25 1 14 to 1 25 1 15 to 1 25 1 10 to 1 20 1 10 to 1 19 1 10 to 1 18 1 10 to 1 17 1 10 to 1 16 1 10 to 1 15 under conditions whereby the Ge layer material is formed on the buffer layer. In a particular embodiment the admixture comprises GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 15 and 1 25.

In another embodiment the methods comprise depositing the Ge layer on the buffer layer which may involve introducing into a reaction chamber a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of an admixture of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between about 1 20 and 1 30 or in other embodiments 1 21 to 1 30 1 22 to 1 30 1 23 to 1 30 1 24 to 1 30 1 25 to 1 30 1 26 to 1 30 1 27 to 1 30 1 28 to 1 30 and 1 29 to 1 30.

In various embodiments the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor in substantially pure form. In another embodiment the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor intermixed with an inert carrier gas. In this embodiment the inert gas can be for example Hor N.

In the methods of the invention the gaseous precursor can be deposited by any suitable technique including but not limited to gas source molecular beam epitaxy chemical vapor deposition plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition laser assisted chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition. In a further embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced by gas source molecular beam epitaxy at between at a temperature of between 300 C. and 420 C. more preferably between 350 C. and 400 C. and even more preferably between 350 C. to 380 C. Practical advantages associated with this low temperature rapid growth process include i short deposition times compatible with preprocessed Si wafers ii selective growth for application in high frequency devices and iii negligible mass segregation of dopants which is particularly critical for thin layers.

In various further embodiments the gaseous precursor is introduced at a partial pressure between 10Torr and 1000 Torr. In one embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr for gas source molecular beam epitaxy. In another embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr for gas source molecular beam epitaxy. In yet another embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr for gas source molecular beam epitaxy.

All definitions and embodiments described above for the methods of the invention apply to the semiconductor structure aspects of the invention.

The semiconductor structures of the invention may further comprise other features as desired including but not limited to the inclusion of dopants such as boron phosphorous arsenic and antimony. These embodiments are especially preferred for semiconductor substrates used as active devices. Inclusion of such dopants into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art.

In another aspect the present invention provides composition comprising GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 30. In various preferred embodiments the composition comprises the individual components in a ratio of 1 10 to 1 25 1 11 to 1 25 1 12 to 1 25 1 13 to 1 25 1 14 to 1 25 1 15 to 1 25 1 10 to 1 20 1 10 to 1 19 1 10 to 1 18 1 10 to 1 17 1 10 to 1 16 1 10 to 1 15. In a further embodiment of each of these embodiments the composition is in a gaseous form. In particular embodiment the composition comprises GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 15 and 1 25.

In another embodiment the present invention provides composition comprising GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between about 1 20 and 1 30 or in other embodiments 1 21 to 1 30 1 22 to 1 30 1 23 to 1 30 1 24 to 1 30 1 25 to 1 30 1 26 to 1 30 1 27 to 1 30 1 28 to 1 30 and 1 29 to 1 30.

GeSnbuffer layers y 0.02 0.04 were deposited on hydrogen passivated Si wafers at 330 350 C. as described previously see Bauer et al. 81 2992 2002 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . The as grown GeSnfilms were 93 95 relaxed even for thicknesses less than 100 nm and achieve strain relief from the substrate by generating Lomer dislocations that run parallel to the film substrate interface. The residual strain was relieved by in situ thermal cycling for 30 minutes at 500 600 C. or by rapid thermal annealing up to 850 C. for several seconds depending on composition. These steps also reduces the density of threading defects penetrating to the surface to levels below 10 cm. Atomic force microscopy AFM shows planar surfaces for both the as grown and annealed GeSnbuffers that provide an ideal platform for subsequent growth. The typical RMS roughness was in the range of 0.5 0.8 nm for 10 10 mareas.

Growth of Ge epilayers was conducted ex situ on the relaxed GeSnbuffers y 0.02 0.04 via gas source molecular beam epitaxy MBE at 340 380 C. and 5 10Torr using 1 15 admixtures of GeH CHand GeH. This combination of compounds was designed to provide built in pseudo surfactant growth behavior enabling the fabrication of dislocation free and atomically flat Ge films with no measurable carbon incorporation. SIMS measurements indicate C content at the detection limit 

The reaction mixture of GeH CHin GeHwas prepared prior to each deposition by combining the pure compounds in a 100 mL vacuum flask. The total pressure was 115 Torr which is well below the vapor pressure of GeH CH 248 Torr at 25 C. . The flask was connected to a gas injection manifold which was pumped to 10Torr on the gas source MBE chamber.

Prior to Ge growth the GeSn Si substrates were sonicated for 5 minutes in methanol dried by flowing Nover their surface inserted through a load lock into an ultra high vacuum UHV chamber at a base pressure of 5 10Torr and then heated on the sample holder for one hour at 250 C. to desorb any volatile surface contaminants until the chamber pressure was restored to the base value of 10Torr. Under these conditions we find that the GeSnsurfaces exhibit the typical 2 1 to 1 2 reconstruction indicating a well ordered crystallographic state suitable for subsequent heteroepitaxial growth.

The temperature was then increased to 360 380 C. and the reactant gases were admitted at a final pressure of 5 10Torr to commence film growth. The pressure was maintained constant 5 10Torr during growth via dynamic pumping using a corrosion resistant turbomolecular pump. Typical growth times from 30 60 minutes yielded films of thickness in the range 30 60 nm respectively at a fixed growth temperature of 360 C. The Ge films were deposited at a rate of 2 nm min. Under these conditions Ge growth was observed to proceed via nucleation of nanoscale atomically flat mesas which gradually coalesce to produce continuous films with planar surfaces as evidence by AFM characterizations.

At growth temperatures of 380 C. and higher a significant increase in growth rate and a surface morphology consisting of two dimensional tiling formations based on rectangular mesas with variable shape and size were observed. On the length scale of the mesas 1 m the film surface is atomically flat however on the scale of 2 5 m the surface roughness is higher due the presence of vertical steps between the mesas.

The samples prepared according to Example 1 were extensively characterized for morphology microstructure purity and crystallographic properties by atomic force microscopy AFM Rutherford backscattering RBS secondary ion mass spectrometry SIMS cross sectional transmission electron microscopy XTEM and high resolution x ray diffraction XRD . The threading defects densities were estimated using an etch pit technique EPD .

As detailed below the precise strain state of the Ge epilayers case can be systematically manipulated by varying the thickness and composition of the underlying template for example via tuning of the Sn content in the GeSnbuffer. Growth of Ge layers on buffers with smaller larger lattice constants such as GeSnwith y 0.015 0.035 systematically produced larger strains in the Ge overlayers with increasing y within the 1.5 3.5 range.

We have used the GeSnbuffer layers y 0.015 0.035 to demonstrate that the highest reported tensile strains on Ge can be easily reproduced within this composition range although record strains as high as 0.45 have already been achieved by our method. Advantageously these buffer compositions have been shown to possess high thermal stability up to 800 C. and to be compatible with conventional CMOS processing.

Combined Raman analysis and high resolution x ray diffraction using multiple off axis reflections revealed unequivocally that the symmetry of tensile Ge was perfectly tetragonal. A downshift of the direct gap consistent with tensile strain has been observed.

The degree of tensile strain alters the Ge band structure and induces a tunable redshift of the direct gap Eabsorption edge. shows the quantitative changes in the band structure for 1 tensile strain in Ge. Small reductions in Ecan dramatically improve the detection performance of this material at 1.55 m and beyond to cover the technologically important near IR telecom bands for use in optical fiber communications. For sufficiently large tensile strain it has been predicted that Ge may become a direct gap system with potential applications as an active lasing material see Menendez and Kouvetakis J. 2004 85 1175 .

In XTEM studies of the materials prepared according to Example 1 revealed monocrystalline Ge epilayer films possessing commensurate interfaces and atomically smooth surfaces regardless of the epilayer thickness. Electron micrographs demonstrated heteroepitaxial growth of a 60 nm thick Ge film on a 200 nm thick GeSnbuffer with 0.25 see . The diffraction contrast image of the entire film thickness in projection shows an atomically flat surface and a film devoid of threading dislocations within the field of view.

Surface flatness was confirmed on a larger 10 10 mscale by AFM scans which show RMS roughness values of 0.5 nm. A corresponding high resolution image showed a sharp interface between the two materials that is fully commensurate and defect free. Occasional threading defects are observed to propagate however from the Si interface through the buffer and terminate at the Ge GeSn interface suggesting that deflection and bending of dislocations into the plane of this interface may be taking place.

The typical RBS spectra in random and channeled modes showed consistently monocrystalline and perfectly aligned materials. The ratio of the aligned and random spectra X which measures the degree of epitaxial registry was extremely low an Xvalue of 10 within the Ge layer close to the 3 limit for Si wafers.

Combined Raman analysis and high resolution x ray diffraction using multiple off axis reflections reveal unequivocally that the symmetry of tensile Ge epilayers with varying thickness prepared according to Example 1 are perfectly tetragonal while the strain state of the buffer remains essentially unchanged. A downshift of the direct gap consistent with tensile strain has been observed.

The growth strategies herein provide controlled and reproducible Ge strain values exceeding those obtained to date leading to values of tensile strain as high as 0.8 . The strain in this case can be systematically manipulated by varying the thickness and composition of the underlying template.

The strain state of the Ge films was further investigated by recording line scans and reciprocal space maps for the symmetric and asymmetric Bragg reflections. In each case the data were referenced to the corresponding reflections of the Si wafer.

The data were acquired with a PANalytical X Pert MRD system PANalytical B.V. Almelo Netherlands and were referenced for each sample to the corresponding reflections of the Si wafer. shows the reciprocal space map for a Snstructure with epilayer and buffer thicknesses of 60 nm and 200 nm respectively.

For the GeSnlayer the diffracted intensity peaks lie very close to the full relaxation line line in . A numerical fit yields a 5.6742 and a 5.6794 which corresponds to a compressive strain of 0.05 . The vertical alignment of the Ge and GeSn peaks indicates a coherent heterostructure while the considerable offset of the Ge peak with respect to the relaxation line implies a significant tensile strain. The measured in plane a 5.6719 and vertical a 5.6476 lattice parameters are related by the tetragonal strain relation 2C C where Cand Care bulk Ge elastic constants and the strain is defined as a a aand a a a. By averaging published experimental values for the elastic constants see O. Madelung in Landolt B rstein New Series III Springer Verlag Berlin N.Y. 2001 Vol. 41 A we obtain 2C C 0.72 0.04 from which we calculate a 5.6578 . This is in excellent agreement with measurements in relaxed Ge films and with published values for the lattice constant of bulk Ge see Madelung supra . Using the calculated relaxed lattice constant we estimate for our sample a strain value 0.25 0.02 where the error arises from the scattering of the elastic constant data and the uncertainty in the determination of the maxima in the reciprocal space maps.

In previous work we showed that GeSnalloys display a compliant behavior when used as buffer layers for the growth of lattice mismatched GeSiSnalloys see Tolle et al. 88 252112 2006 . The lattice constant afor the buffer and epilayer was found to approach the value predicted from a simple strain energy minimization expression that neglects the interaction with the Si substrate. For the sample in such a model predicts a compressive buffer strain 0.08 in reasonably agreement with the observed value. To exp incorporate the same buffer layer but a much thicker Ge film 140 nm than the previously discussed sample 60 nm . Then the compressive strain on the buffer layer should increase to 0.14.

XRD data including the and reflections indicated that the buffers remain virtually unchanged with a 5.6731 and a 5.6794 which correspond to 0.06. The lattice constants a 5.6704 and a 5.6731 are again very close indicating the same degree of coherency as in the previous structure. The calculated unstrained Ge lattice constant a 5.6576 is virtually identical to the one obtained for the previous sample. The strain analysis yields 0.23 which is nearly the same as that of the 60 nm thick Ge sample. This value is within the 0.02 error shown above. Therefore these experiments do not show evidence for a compliant buffer behavior. It is interesting to point out however that in the present case the strain energy densities are smaller than in Tolle et al. supra by up to one order of magnitude so that neglecting the buffer substrate interaction may no longer be a good approximation.

The larger scattering volume of the 140 nm thick sample enabled us to measure typically weak off axis peaks such as the and reflections. These have h

To derive the precise values of the in plane and perpendicular strain values we conducted a quantitative analysis of the XRD data assuming that the epitaxial Ge films adopt a purely tetragonal distortion relative to their unstrained cubic form in which a a aand a a a where a aand aare the measured in plane vertical and relaxed lattice constants . The two strains are related by 2C C which we can write with 2C C where Cand Care the elastic constants . The strain relation can be inverted to obtain the unstrained lattice constant a a a 1 the a a a a and the a a a a of the film. For the elastic constants we adopt the values C 128.5 GPa C 48.3 GPa from Madelung supra . while for strained Ge film we use a 5.6802 and a 5.6416 obtained from XRD. These data yield parallel and perpendicular strain values of 0.40 and 0.30 and an unstrained Ge lattice constant of a 5.658 in excellent agreement with the known bulk Ge value. Taking differentials of the strain relations above yields the following expression 

Extensive XRD studies of a wide range of tensile strained Ge films grown on GeSny 0.015 0.035 indicated strain states between 0.15 0.43 respectively. The XTEM data of these samples revealed monocrystalline films possessing commensurate interfaces and atomically smooth surfaces regardless of the epilayer thickness. shows electron micrographs of the Ge GeSnsample indicating a 60 nm thick Ge layer grown epitaxially on a 230 nm thick GeSnbuffer. The bright field image shows essentially no penetrating threading defects over an extended lateral range of 1 m and the high resolution micrograph near the Ge Si interface reveals a sharp commensurate transition between the epilayer and the buffer. AFM analysis of the sample shows that the surface is predominantly flat with an RMS roughness of 1.5 nm over a typical 5 5 marea . On a smaller 0.5 0.5 mscale we observe atomically smooth surfaces with a reduced RMS roughness of 0.2 nm. The difference in these values is associated with the presence of tiny voids located at the intersection of individual coalescing terraces as described previously. In thicker films these terraces coalesce fully and such features are not longer visible. In contrast the growth of pure GeHin the absence of the organic additive GeH CHproduces defective and rough films with classic island like surface morphology consistent with a mismatched heteroepitaxy growth mode. This observation confirms the notion that the organic additives significantly alter the surface energetics promoting organized assembly of planar Ge films at conditions that would normally preclude their growth directly on GeSn on the basis of surface energy differences. Note that analogous differences in surface energetics prevent the heteroepitaxial growth of silicon films directly on a Ge surface. However as we have demonstrated above the pseudosurfactant properties of the organic additives enable the remarkable and unconventional growth of fully strained and perfectly planar Si layers on Ge buffers.

In one example of Ge epilayer strain tuning via Sn content in the buffer we conducted growth of Ge layers on buffers with smaller larger lattice constants such as GeSnwith y 0.015 0.035. For samples with the similar Ge GeSn film thickness ratio we find 0.17 for y 0.015 and 0.45 for y 0.035 see . Increasing y within the 1.5 3.5 range produces systematically larger strains in the Ge overlayers.

In summary we have demonstrated the growth of tensile strained Ge films on GeSn Si composite substrates. Our approach is straightforward and suitable for large scale integration. Contrary to the thermal expansion processes our growth proceeds at low temperatures 380 C. compatible with selective growth.

