---

title: Shock compression sensitivity change on command of explosives containing SMART materials
abstract: The invention is a method and a composition where, on command, a distributed number of micron size voids are created in an energetic material. The voids are hot spots, which change the shock compression sensitivity of the explosive composition by a factor of 2 to 10. The composition contains SMART materials, which are magnetostrictive materials having a large magnetostrictive coefficient, and in a matter of microseconds following the application of an external electromagnetic field, each of the magnetostrictive nano-structures expands and contracts forming a void, where the sum of the voids increases the shock compression sensitivity of the composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07927439&OS=07927439&RS=07927439
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07927439
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to energetic materials and in particular to a method and a composition to substantially instantaneously changing the shock compression sensitivity explosives propellants and the like through the compounded addition of distributed SMART materials and the application of an external electromagnetic field.

Geoffrey P. McKnight in a UCLA paper entitled MAGNETOSTRICTIVE MATERIALS BACKGROUND teaches that magnetostrictive materials are broadly defined as materials that undergo a change in shape due to a change in the magnetization state of the material generally these materials are referred to as SMART Materials. Nearly all ferromagnetic materials exhibit a change in shape resulting from magnetization change. In most common materials nickel iron and cobalt the change in length is on the order of 10 parts per million see FIGURE at right . In addition the change in volume is very small. This type of magnetostriction has been termed Joule magnetostriction after James P. Joule s discovery in the 1850 s. The relatively small change in shape of these materials limited their use in engineering. Initial sonar designs contemplated exploiting the magnetostrictive effect but were left unexplored due to advances in piezoelectric materials such as quartz and Rochelle salt and later lead zirconium titanate PZT . The engineering era of magnetostrictive materials began with the discovery of giant 1000 s of ppm magnetostriction in rare earth alloys during the 1960 s by A. E. Clark and others. The culmination of research into an engineering alloy incorporating rare earth materials was Terfenol D a specially formulated alloy of Terbium Dysprosium and Iron that exhibits large magnetostriction at room temperature and relatively small applied fields. Earlier alloys exhibited large magnetostriction but either at very large magnetic fields or at cryogenic temperatures or both. Terfenol D overcame the temperature difficulty by incorporating a RFemicrostructure which raised the curie temperature above room temperature. The necessary magnetic field was reduced by balancing the ratio of Terbium and Dysprosium two elements with oppositely signed magnetocrystalline anisotropy such that effective anisotropy of the compound was near zero at room temperature. Since this time Terfenol D has become the preeminent magnetostrictive material although research continues into new materials constantly.

Judy Lin Eftekhar in a UCLA paper entitled MATERIALS ON THE MOVE ENGINEERING SMART MATERIALS reports an innovation at UCLA was the creation of a NiTi microbubble that can function as a two way actuator. Starting out as a perfectly flat disk it plumps up into a bubble when electric current is passed through the NiTi heating the material up. When the current is turned off the bubble recedes and the disk resumes its original shape.

The invention is a composition and a method that on command creates distributed micron size voids in an energetic material such as an explosive and the like. Initiation of an energetic material or high explosive can occur when an impulse delivered to the material evolves into a self sustaining detonation wave. Wave growth towards detonation depends on the formation of local regions of elevated thermal energy or hot spots where local temperatures can be much higher than the bulk temperature expected from shock heating. When sufficient thermal energy is generated locally ignition occurs and subsequent chemical energy release results in progressive shock strengthening until detonation conditions are achieved. A site where such energy focuses a hot spot can occur at a void in the material. Porosities or voids in heterogeneous explosives offer potential sites for the initiation of detonations. The instant invention is a method for creating distributed voids on command and a composition of an heterogeneous energetic material.

The voids are produced by the addition of magnetostrictive also magnetostriction materials generally referred to as SMART materials and in particular giant magnetostrictive materials GMM such as alloys composed of iron dysprosium and terbium creating an explosive composite with tunable sensitivity to shock ignition. Giant magnetostrictive materials which are nano structures are selected which increase in volume a few percent when subjected to an external electromagnetic field therein pushing the surrounding energetic material away during expansion of the magnetostrictive material composed of individual nano structures. When the external electromagnetic field is removed the magnetostrictive material returns to its original volume thus leaving behind voids in the explosive composition. These voids constitute sites where shock compression energy focuses creating hot spots which results in progressive shock strengthening until detonation conditions are achieved. Creation of voids can be produced by magnetostrictive rods and other shapes of SMART materials such as disks microbubbles spheres and other volume changing nano structures. When a special visco elastic binder system is employed the induced voids are collapsible and voids disappear after a few hours due to stress relaxation returning the composite explosive to its safe state being substantially free of voids. The exemplary SMART materials are generally metals that provide fuel to the reaction process providing energy and maintaining the performance level of the host energetic material.

The invention is additionally a method for substantially instantaneously changing the shock compression sensitivity. The method comprises the steps of providing a composition of energetic material and a SMART material wherein said SMART material is a potential fuel applying an external electromagnetic field to the composition said field causing the SMART material distributed throughout the composition to expand from its relaxed normal state to a strained expanded state which displaces a region of the energetic material adjacent to the SMART material nano structure and removing the external electromagnetic field whereupon the SMART material nano structure returns to its normal state creating a void in the region previously occupied by the nano structure that was strain expanded where said resulting void is a hot spot that enhances the shock compression sensitivity of the energetic material. From this point forward the process can take either one of two paths. The energetic material having enhanced shock compression sensitivity can be detonated for instance in a new booster material or an explosive or the energetic material can be allowed to rest undisturbed for several hours providing time for the energetic material to stress relax filling the voids thereby making the composition safe to handle. The energetic material can always be re activated at a later date by re applying the external electromagnetic field to the composition.

The invention is a method and a composition to substantially instantaneously create distributed micron size voids in an energetic material. Referring to the method includes two main steps and an elected third step. In the first step energetic material in the illustrated embodiment cyclotetramethylenetetraamine HMX is combined with a SMART material in an exemplary embodiment nano structures known as a giant magnetostriction materials GMM . GMM increases in volume by a few percent compared conventional magnetostriction materials which strain expand a few tenths of a percent. In an exemplary embodiment the GMM is composed of Terefenol D with magnetostriction coefficients of L 100 90 ppm and L 111 1600 ppm which is a large magnetostriction coefficient. Magnetostriction is dependent on crystallographic directions. The term magnetostriction coefficient refers to the magnetostriciton values measured for certain crystallographic directions that is a magnetic constant of a material. The magnetostriction in any direction may be expressed as a function of the magnestrictions measured for these directions e.g. for cubic crystal systems like Terefenol. The magnetostriction in a general direction may be expressed in terms of those measured for the 100 and 111 crystallographic directions that is in terms of L 100 and L 111 indicated above. Accordingly large magnetostriciton values would be obtained if measurements are performed in certain directions along the 111 directions.

As shown in the the SMART material are giant magnetostriction materials in the form of rods but other volume strain expanding shapes will also work. The composition has a theoretical maximum density TMD from about 98.3 to about 99.4 primarily or substantially due to a presence of the HMX. Generally a TMD is reached with a composite without any voids. Nonetheless a TMD may be calculated for a composition or mixture of HMX and a binder at atmospheric room and temperature. Although a 100 TMD cannot be reached with explosives pressed explosives may have a range from about 98.3 to about 99.4 but cast explosives have a lower TMDs due to the existence of air pockets. The inventive technology works best at the higher range of TMDs.

In step one 1 an external electromagnetic field is applied to the composition. The field causes the SMART material in an exemplary embodiment rod to lengthen from an initial length Lto a strained expanded rod having an expanded length of L. The expansion may also result in a small increase in an overall volume of the composite as depicted by a dimensional section above a dotted line which represents an initial volume dimension. In the second step the external electromagnetic field is removed and the rod returns to its original size having a length L. Each individual rod of SMART material creates a void which is a hot spot having a length L where L is on the order from about 10 to about 100 microns. The rod with the adjacent void imparts enhanced shock compression sensitivity to the performance enhanced energetic material . The performance enhanced energetic material can be detonated or given sufficient time generally on the order of hours the energetic material will stress relax therein collapsing the voids. This step is illustrated in step where the hot spots are eliminated thereby making the energetic material again safe to handle. The rods are no longer in a strain expanded state but may be expanded again to create voids in a future application of the external electromagnetic field.

The magnetostriction material includes alloys composed of iron dysoprosium and terbium such as TbFe TbZn and TbDyZn. In addition to rods the magnetorstrictive material may also be spheres disks microbubbles and other volume changing shapes.

In an exemplary embodiment the energetic material is cyclotetramethylenetetraamine HMX and the like. HMX is a class 1 explosive but is relatively stable with respect to shock compression sensitivity. The inclusion of SMART materials lowers the pressure required to detonate HMX on the order of 2 10 fold when voids are generated. The voids are on the order from about 10 to about 100 microns.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific exemplary embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally the numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

