---

title: Polyphase channelization system
abstract: A polyphase channelizer converts an intermediate frequency wideband signal into a complex signal that is sampled by parallel analog-to-digital converters having a bank of samplers respectively clocked by staggered clocking signals for respective converters for feeding I and Q quadrature samples to a polyphase filter bank of finite impulse response filters driving a fast Fourier transform processor for providing channelized digital signal outputs. The parallel analog-to-digital converters can operate at lower speeds but are parallel connected for effectively operating at required higher speeds. The channelizer channelizes the wideband signal using a polyphase clock for enabling high speed sampling and converting through low speed parallel analog to digital converters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE041797&OS=RE041797&RS=RE041797
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: RE041797
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081205
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. F04701 00 C 0009 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to the field of communication systems. More particularly the present invention relates using parallel low speed analog to digital converters in combination with polyphase channelization for processing of wideband signals in communication systems.

The present and future generations of satellites need to operate with small earth terminals as with mobile vehicle or hand held terminals. Such satellites need to be user oriented in that the user terminal needs to be relatively less complex and have small power weight and low cost requirements. Such communications systems may be realized at the cost of increasing the complexity of the space borne equipment and central earth stations. An example of such a communication system includes an uplink that uses frequency division multiple access FDMA signaling with low cost and complexity terminals while the downlink uses time division multiple access TDMA signaling to maximize the satellite radiated power without intermodulation noise. In such communication systems the small earth terminals do not need the capability of transmitting at very high burst rate and stringent satellite frame synchronization capabilities necessary for TDMA transmitter. The feasibility of mixed mode multiple accessing techniques require efficient means of translation between the two formats of multiple access signaling. Although analog designs can be readily realized implementation considerations as to size weight cost flexibility and direct digital processing are expected to achieve higher performance. Digital processing can also fully exploit advances in VLSI and ASIC technologies to achieve improved performance. In wideband satellite systems various digital signal processing methods are required by the satellite payload. Various methods of conventional digital signal processing include polyphase filtering Fast Fourier Transform FFT filtering Discrete Fourier Transform DFT filtering frequency domain filtering multistage bank filtering and tree filter bank filtering methods. Prior digital signaling processing methods are available for translation and channelization using analytical digital signal processing methods.

In broadband satellites having nominal bandwidths in GHz regimes major limitations are inherent in analog to digital AD conversion of the received broadband signal. Such A D conversion needs to operate at least at a rate equal to two times the received signal bandwidth. This high speed conversion rate imposes limitations on the ability of A D converters operating at such high speeds as well as increasing power requirements and costs. In such situation an analog filter bank may be required to first split the signal into several signals of smaller bandwidth and then digitally process each individual split signal. Such a hybrid analog and digital structure suffers from the disadvantages of the analog processing in terms of weight and power requirements of the analog filters and lacks the advantages of completely digital processing.

Present day technology involves such processing on board the satellite. An example of such a communication system uses messaging service signals communicated through satellites. In such a communication system a forward link takes messages from an earth station to the satellite that retransmits to mobile devices through spot beams. The return link begins at the mobile devices up to the satellite and then terminates at an earth station. In such a communication system the types of transmitter and receivers in the forward and reverse links are different. Thus optimum uplink and downlink designs to and from the mobile devices and the earth station are different.

In one proposed communication system the uplink uses FDMA signaling with low cost and low complexity terminals while the downlink uses TDMA signaling to maximize the satellite radiated power without intermodulation noise. In such a communication system the small earth terminals do not need the capability of transmitting at very high burst rates nor with stringent satellite frame synchronization capabilities necessary for the TDMA transmitters. In another proposed communication system the uplink is based on random access processing while the downlink uses TDMA. In terms of modulation all such communication systems make use of digital techniques with inherent advantages in terms of power efficiency flexibility error correction and detection coding and encryption. The feasibility of mixed mode multiple accessing signaling methods require efficient means of signaling translation between the two formats of multiple access signaling. Such a signaling translation may involve conversion of an FDMA signal into a TDMA multiplexed signal that is then processed through a digital switch to various TDMA carriers being transmitted over the spot beams. Such signaling translations are also useful for switching FDMA carriers to different spot beams without requiring arrays of analog bandpass filters and converters. The FDMA to TDMA signaling translations involve digital channelization and switching of multiplexed channels. Digital channelization uses a digital channelizer that employs conventional digital processing methods. A digital channelizer separates and downconverts incoming multiple signals such as FDMA signals into multiple baseband signals for digital processing or for transmission over a downlink in another signaling format such as TDMA.

The analytical signal processing method is a conventional digital channelization processing method that processes multiplexed channels and utilizes analytical signal properties to reduce the channelizer complexity. The analytical signal processing method allows for relaxed filter specifications of the digital channelizer for reducing implementation complexity. In analytical signal processing systems the high rate sampled FDMA signal S f with Nnumber of multiplexed channels after analog down conversion of the received signal to IF range is first filtered by an analytic complex band pass filter H fT where H fT is a frequency translated version of a prototype low pass filter H fT defined by a H fT equation. H T H f i w T i 0 1 . . . N 1

In the H fT equation Tis the input signal sampling period and w denotes the bandwidth of any one of the multiplexed channels with equal bandwidth. The filter output is decimated by Nin the decimator following the filter. The output of the decimator is filtered by a complex low pass analytical filter with a frequency response fT to yield the channelized signal in analytical form. The analytical filter is f where f fTand has the frequency response defined by an f equation.

From the Nyquist sampling theorem the decimator output spectrum Y is related to the input X by an Y f equation.

To eliminate any aliasing due to j 0 terms in the Y f equation the transition band for filter H fT should be limited to a bandwidth w on either side of the passband because the images of the spectrum X f are separated by f 1 or in terms of frequency f by 2w Hz and thus the transition band effects only the spectrum intervening the images of the desired spectrum which is filtered by f .

Thus the channel signal can be recovered with no aliasing error even though filter H fT has a transition band of w Hz on either side. The transition band however makes the design of the filter easier. The output U fT is in analytic form. To obtain the corresponding real valued signal one obtains the complex conjugate part of the spectrum U fT . Representing analytic functions Hand as a sum of the respective conjugate symmetric parts Hand Gand anti symmetric parts H G the equivalent implementation of the analytic signal approach can be derived. In this equivalent implementation the signal S fT is first filtered by two filter branches. The first branch consists of a cascade of H fT a decimator by Nand filter G fT . The second branch consists of a cascade of H fT decimator by N and filter G fT . The outputs of the two branches is summed and multiplied by 1 to yield the desired channelized signal. The operation of multiplying by 1 where n denotes discrete time index and i is the channel number in time domain corresponds to frequency shift of w and is required for odd channels. For even channels i even 1 1 and no additional operation is involved.

In terms of computational complexity the number of multiplications Mrequired per input channel per second is given by the following Mand K equations.

In the K equation and denote the specified in band and out of band ripple respectively and B denotes the filtering bandwidth of the channelizer. The filtering bandwidth in general is smaller than w to allow for guard bands.

In a direct implementation of the polyphase digital Fourier transform PDFT approach for an analyzer synthesizer model the input signal x n is demodulated by the exponential function e low pass filtered by the filter h n providing a resulting signal that is down sampled by a factor M. The synthesizer model interpolates all the channel signals back to the high sampling rate filters the signal by filter f n to remove the imaging components and modulates the resulting signal by complex exponential function eto translate the resulting signal back to frequency . The output of the synthesizer is the sum of the K channel output signals.

The polyphase realization of the DFT filter bank is based on the polyphase implementation of the decimators and interpolators. Such a realization is relatively simple for the case of critically sampled filter banks wherein M K. In this case the number of independent channels Nis also equal to K. Designs for other choices of M and K are relatively more complex. In the case of M K the center frequencies of the K frequency bands are given by an equation.

The analyzer synthesizer model can be shown to be equivalent to the integer band model where in the analyzer the input signal x n is filtered by a bandpass filter of impulse response h n the output of which is decimated by M to provide x m . In the synthesizer the input channel signal circumflex over x m is first interpolated by M and the resulting signal is bandpass filtered with filter of impulse response f n to provide x m . Sum of all the x m k 1 2 . . . K then provides the synthesizer output.

In the X m equation circle around X denotes convolution and m is the impulse response of the ipolyphase branch given in terms of h n as m h mM i for i 0 1 through M 1 and branch input signals x m are given as x m x mM i .

The alternative X m equations lead to the polyphase DFT filter bank structure. This structure comprises a commutator that demultiplexes the input signal into K M signals x m each of which is filtered by its corresponding polyphase filter m . The outputs of the K filters are processed by a K point FFT processor whose outputs comprise the samples of the K channel signals.

Similarly the polyphase DFT filter bank synthesis structure is derived whose polyphase filters have impulse response given by a q m equation. q m f mM i i 0 1 . . . M 1

The polyphase implementation has the advantage of reducing the computational requirements by order K compared to direct form. In terms of polyphase branch filter design there are two broad categories of design including finite impulse response FIR and infinite impulse response IIR filters. The FIR filters can be designed on the basis of windows using Hamming Hanning or Kaiser techniques optimal equiripple linear phase design based on Chebyshev approximation and a multi exchange Remez algorithm half band filters that further reduce the computational requirements and filter designs based on direct optimization of a criterion function. The IIR filter can be designed as in the classical approach or may be based on a transformation wherein the denominator is a polynomial in Zand thereby exploits the interpolator and decimator structure to minimize the computational requirements.

The polyphase implementation effectively allows sharing one lowpass filter among all the channels with the help of FFT transform. The total number of real multiplications required per second per channel is found by an Mequation.

The frequency domain filtering FDF method is based on the use of FFT techniques in the filtering operation. In time domain the filtering operation consists of discrete convolution of the sampled input signal with the filter impulse response. Equivalently the result can be obtained by multiplying the Fourier transform of the input signal with filter frequency response and taking the inverse transform of the result. This is the basis of FDF techniques. Even though this approach may seem to be more indirect compared to direct convolution used in FIR filter implementation this can be made computationally more efficient by using FFT technique in computing the fast Fourier transform FFT and inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT . However the application of FFT results in a circular convolution of the input signal segment and the filter impulse response instead of the desired linear convolution. This problem is overcome by an appropriate modification of the straightforward FFT approach. Two such modification techniques the overlap save sectioning and the overlap add sectioning are well known. Modification techniques use Q to denote the filter impulse response length and N be the sequence length selected for the FFT operation where N is greater than Q. The term N can of course be selected in an optimal manner so us to minimise the overall computational complexity.

In the overlap save section method the incoming signal is segmented into sections of length N such that the adjacent sections have an overlap of Q 1 samples. Each such section is circularly convolved with the filter response also of length N after padding with zeros using FFT approach. The first Q 1 samples of the result are discarded for each section and the truncated sections are concatenated to yield the desired linear convolution. In the overlap add sectioning method the input signal is segmented into disjoint sections of length N Q. Each section is augmented by a sequence of zeros of length Q to yield a sequence of length N which is circularly convolved with the augmented filter impulse response using FFT techniques. The resulting sequences are aligned in such a manner that there is an overlap of length Q between the successive sequences. During the period of no overlap individual sequences then provide the desired response. During the periods of overlap the two overlapping sequences are added to yield the desired output. Both the overlap save sectioning and overlap add sectioning methods provide the desired linear convolution.

A specific channelization scheme is known as an FDF channelization scheme that uses an overlap save approach. An example of a specific channelization scheme uses a 50 overlap that is N 2Q. The FDF channelization scheme considers an FDMA signal of 6.0 MHz bandwidth consisting of 300 channels of 20.0 KHz bandwidth each. Simulations in the frequency domain indicate that each channel must have at least sixteen samples points corresponding to a resolution of 1.25 KHz. Thus for the complete band at least 4800 points are required. Rounding up to the nearest power of two an FFT size of 8192 was selected. In terms of N the length for FFT operation is N 16N. The number of multiplications for an FFT or IFFT of size is given by NlogN. For the implementation requiring only one IFFT the number of multiplications is equal to 2N logN 4 . For real time operation the operations must be performed in NT 2 sec where Tis the sampling period of the FDMA signal and the factor 2 accounts for 50 overlap. Therefore the number of multiplications per second is given by an Mequation. M 4flog 16N 4 

In the MDFF equation f 1 Tis the sampling rate selected equal to 10.24 MHz. In practice the number of IFFTs will be determined by the number of outputs of the digital transplexer that may be connected to different spot beams in the satellite communication applications. For example when there are twelve beams analyzed the number of operations given by the Mequation is roughly multiplied by the number of the outputs.

The multistage MS approach provides a means of channelization using successive stages of half bank filters. Therefore this technique is appropriate only when N 2where L denotes the number of stages of filtering and decimating. This method provides moderate flexibility and computational efficiency but the efficiency decreases as the number of channels decreases. The total number of real multiplications required per second per channel is found to be in an Mequation.

In the Mequation Ndenotes the number of coefficients of the half band filters Nis the number of coefficients of the last filter of the tree and w and Nare defined previously.

The communication of broadband signals require A D converters operating at a very high rate imposing limitations in terms of availability and power requirements. The A D conversion is a major limitation in extending DSP applications to higher and higher bandwidth signals. A flash type of A D conversion may be required for conventional implementation. In a given state of A D conversion technology there are severe restrictions in terms of availability the cost and power requirements versus the required sampling rate and A D conversion accuracy measured in terms of the number of bits per sample. Thus for a wide band signal in conventional implementation the A D converter may not be available may not have the required number of bits or may require excessive power or may be exceedingly expensive.

In wideband systems the channelization may be performed in a number of hierarchical stages and in principle different stages may apply different channelization techniques including both digital and analog as hybrid techniques to obtain the most flexible and optimum overall architecture. For example when the total band is 500.0 MHz the band may be divided first into six channels each with an 80.0 MHz bandwidth. This stage may be implemented using surface wave acoustic SAW filters or one of the digital techniques. The second stage channelizer may divide the 80.0 MHz band into four bands of 20.0 MHz band each. This stage may be implemented by the polyphase FFT approach or the analytical approach. The third stage is used to separate signals with bandwidth ranging from 64.0 KHz to 10.0 MHz. A frequency domain filtering approach using pipeline FFT architecture or a multistage tree approach may be used for this stage. There are many possible variations for such a multistage hybrid channelizer.

Digital TV receivers with polyphase analog to digital conversion of baseband symbol coding is taught by Limberg in U.S. Pat. No. 5 852 477. Limberg teaches the use of multiple that is parallel analog to digital converters ADC for filtering a single baseband channel in the digital TV receiver. The signal comprises several time interleaved data streams. In the present disclosure use of parallel ADCs is taught for the purpose of separating many N channels with different carrier frequencies in a FDM format. In most direct digital implementation the composite signal is first sampled at a high rate of at least two times the bandwidth of composite signals followed by a bank of bandpass filters centered around the incoming channel carrier frequencies. This procedure is referred to as channelization. Limberg docs not teach a channelizer procedure. The signal at the input to the bank of ADCs is a real baseband signal. In the channelizer application the signal is either a complex baseband signal or a complex IF signal obtained by a complex mixer the latter is preferably used in this application instead of an alternative Hilbert transform approach for implementation simplicity for achieving a complex IF analytic signal. An analytic signal is one where the spectrum of the analytic signal is zero for negative frequencies. Limberg does not teach such frequency separation and downconversion. Limberg teaches the use of multiple filters for filtering of several M time multiplexed data streams in the same channel. However the polyphase filters each have same number of filter coefficients as in a length of the original filter. Thus the amount of hardware is M times the hardware required for a direct implementation of a single filter. Moreover the outputs of the filters are not combined as a polyphase channelizer. Hence there is no FFT processor as is required for combining the polyphase filters outputs. Limberg does not teach polyphase channelization. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

An object of the invention is to provide to process wideband communication signals using low speed analog digital converters.

Another object of the invention is to provide a polyphase channelization communication system using low speed analog digital converters connected in parallel to effectively provide high speed processing of wideband signals.

The present invention is directed to a communication system for wideband signal processing through parallel analog to digital converters ADCs in combination with polyphase channelization. The ADCs can be low speed ADCs operating in parallel to provide effective high speed analog to digital A D conversion. The polyphase channelization enables the use of the low speed ADCs. The polyphase channelization is perfected by a polyphase channelizer includes a complex mixer for downconversion of the input wideband signal into baseband quadrature signals that are fed into the parallel A D converters having a plurality of converter channelized outputs. The converter channelized outputs are fed into a bank of polyphase filters and a fast Fourier transform FFT processor that provides a plurality of channelized digital outputs. The wideband input signal is downconverted into a quadrature signal and converted into digital form for processing by the filter bank and FFT processor. The FFT processor combines polyphase filter outputs so as to produce digital output signals for the communication input channels at different carrier frequencies separated and downconverted to baseband. The digital output signals have a zero center frequency. When the wideband composite signal input is over a complex baseband or IF individual channels have different center frequencies. Thus the polyphase channelizer performs both functions of the frequency downconversion and separation. In the polyphase filtering the task of filtering is divided into smaller tasks performed by individual filters. Thus the filter length and hence computational task performed by individual polyphase filters is only 1 N of the filter length in direct implementation of a single bandpass filter. In addition the same polyphase filters are shared by all the channels to reduce the computational task by approximately by a factor of N. The polyphase channelizer offers channelized baseband digital processing of wideband signals using low speed ADCs for reduced power consumption.

The invention is preferably applicable to satellite communication systems using digital signal processing of broadband or wideband signals. The satellite communication systems may have an uplink microwave signal that may be for example in the X band or Ka Band of the radio frequency spectrum that is received by the satellite antenna. Such an antenna may be for example of a reflector type or a phased array antenna. Further the antenna may be a global coverage or a spot beam antenna. The parallel architecture using polyphase channelizer in combination with several parallel A D converters operates at an order of magnitude lower in speeds to effectively provide a high speed A D conversion. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to a communication antenna not shown receives a wideband or broadband signal that is processed through a complex mixer a parallel analog to digital A D converter a polyphase filter bank and a fast Fourier transform processor for providing channelized digital signal outputs . The wideband signal may be received through a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received wideband signal to an appropriate power level. The received wideband signal is typically communicated to a receiver not shown providing a wideband signal input . The receiver may include conventional RF bandpass filters and RF amplifier not shown for further amplification as is well know. The receiver may further downconvert the received radio frequency RF wideband signal into the wideband signal input at an intermediate frequency IF .

The wideband signal input is communicated to a complex mixer that functions as a complex downconverter. The complex mixer includes a power divider a local oscillator an inphase mixer a quadrature mixer and a 2 phase shifter . The wideband signal input is communicated to the power divider that splits the wideband signal input into a first divider output signal and a second divider output signals respectively fed to the mixers and . Each of the first and second divider output signals has a power level that is half of the power level of the wideband signal input . The first divider output of the power divider is an input to the quadrature mixer and the second divider output of the power divider is an input to the inphase mixer . The local oscillator provides a local oscillator signal that is communicated to the inphase mixer for downconverting the first divider output signal into an IF or baseband inphase signal. The local oscillator signal from the local oscillator is also communicated to the phase shifter for quadrature phase shifting of the local oscillator for downconversion of the second divider output signal by quadrature mixer providing an IF or baseband quadrature signal. The quadrature mixer receives local oscillator signal through the 2 phase shifter for quadrature downconversion. The 2 phase shifter generates the quadrature phase local oscillator demodulation signal by introducing a 90 degree that is 2 radians phase shift in the local oscillator demodulation signal.

The inphase signal and the quadrature signal respectively from the mixers and have a center frequency fthat is smaller than the center frequency Fof the wideband signal input . The local oscillator provides the local oscillator signal having a frequency fthat is the difference between center frequency fand f. In a specific case where fand fare equal the inphase and quadrature outputs respectively from the mixers and will be at baseband and not at an IF. The inphase signal from the output of mixer and the quadrature signal at the output of mixer respectively form the real and imaginary parts of a complex signal as an analytic signal. Hence the outputs of mixers and together provide an analytic complex signal. An analytic complex signal is a signal having a spectrum that is zero for negative frequencies. Alternatively the analytical signal may also be obtained using Hilbert transforms where the quadrature signal is obtained at the output of a Hilbert transform filter filtering the inphase signal output of mixer .

The inphase and quadrature signals at the output of complex mixer are fed into samplers a b through m of the parallel A D Converters . The number of samplers is equal to the number of communication channels in the wideband signal input . Most often the number of samplers a through m is equal to the number of input signals superimposed within the wideband signal input . However more generally the number of samplers a through m may be an integer submultiple of the number of communication channels. Such may be the case for example when the channelization is performed in more than one stage. The signal channelization can be equivalently performed in more than one stage though shown for convenience to be in one stage in a tree channelization configuration wherein the channelized digital signal outputs a b through m are in turn input to baseband channelizers not shown. Each of such baseband channelizer would replicate filter banks and FFT processors . For convenience the number of samplers a through m is taken to be equal to the number of input channels N in the wideband signal . In the preferred form only a single stage polyphase channelizer is used having one filter band and one of the FFT processors .

Each of the samplers a through m simultaneously samples two input signals that are respectively the inphase signal and the quadrature signal from the complex mixer . For the first sampler a the sampling instances are provided by the signal CK at the output of polyphase clock generator . The frequency of clock CK is equal to the required sampling frequency for the wideband signal input divided by 2N. The required sampling frequency for the wideband signals is dictated by the Nyquist criteria and must be at least two times the bandwidth of the wideband signal. In practice the sampling rate may be two to three times the signal bandwidth. The process of sampling results in producing replicas of the analytic signal at input of the samplers a b through m. The replica signals are separated from the analytic signal by multiples of the sampling frequency f. The sampling frequency fis selected so that one of the replica signals is centered about the zero frequency. The center frequency of any one replica signal of a channel is at zero frequency with fat least two limes the wideband input signal bandwidth. The rate of clock CK is equal to fdivided by N. The first sampled signal output at the sampler a output is digitized by the analog to digital converter a which produces at its output the first digital signal. The analytic signal is sampled in the sampler b by sampling clock CK generated by the polyphase clock generator to generate a second sampled signal at the sampler b output. The second sampled signal is input to an analog to digital converter b which creates the second digital signal at its output. In this manner the cascade of sampler c and analog to digital converter c with clock signal CK from the polyphase clock generator generates a third digital signal and so on in a likewise manner with the Nth digital signal generated at the output of converter m by the cascade of sampler m and analog to digital converter m with clock input CKm generated by the polyphase clock generator . For simplicity of description the sampler and A D converter is shown as separate units however depending upon specific integrated circuit chips used for implementation the two functions may be performed by a single chip. Similarly specific details in terms of serial or parallel nature of bits at the A D converter output will depend on the specific chips used. The outputs of the A D converters may be bit serial. Otherwise a parallel to serial converter is added at the outputs of each of the A D converters a b through m. The outputs of the parallel to serial converters are then input to polyphase filters a b through m respectively.

The digital outputs of the analog to digital converters a b through and m are input to the polyphase filters a b through and m respectively. The design methodology of the polyphase filters is well known in the art. In the design methodology first a prototype filter is designed to operate at a sampling rate of fwith a bandwidth equal to one half of the bandwidth of one of the channels in the input wideband signal . The exact filter characteristics in terms of the pass band transition band and stop band characteristics are dependent upon the actual channelizer application and are part of user defined specifications. Using conventional digital filter approaches a digital design of a low pass filter is obtained. Such a filter may be either a finite impulse response FIR or an infinite impulse response IIR filter. Both FIR and IIR filters have some relative advantages and disadvantages. However an FIR filter is usually preferred due to inherent linear phase characteristics without filter instability. The FIR filter design is characterized by an inherent impulse response sequence h. The length M of this sequence and the actual values of the coefficients hare based on the filter specifications and the specific FIR filter design used. Following the FIR approach in the preferred form the polyphase filters a b . . . and m are also FIR with impulse response sequences being equal to the appropriate subsequences of h. More specifically when M is an integer multiple of N that is when M KN where K is some integer then each of the polyphase filters have a length K. More specifically the impulse response sequence of the polyphase filter a denoted u 0 u 1 through u K 1 is given by h h h through and h. The coefficients of the polyphase filter b denoted u 0 u 1 through and u K 1 is given by h h h through and h. In a likewise manner the coefficients of all of the polyphase filters c d through m are obtained from the FIR filter response h for staggered filtering with the response of filter m denoted by u 0 u 1 through and u K 1 and is given by h h h through h. When the number of coefficients M in the FIR filter response h is not exactly equal to an integer multiple of N a required number of zeros are appended to the response to make M equal to the nearest integer multiple of K to obtain the impulse response of the polyphase filters.

The polyphase bank filtered outputs at the outputs of the polyphase filters a b through and m are inputs to a FFT processor that computes the N point Fast Fourier transform of the N inputs once every f N second that is at the rate f N that is the sampling rate required for individual channels present in the wideband input signal and produces N outputs a b through m every T T N second where T 1 fis the sampling period corresponding to the fast sampling rate fand Tis the period for the slow sampling rate f N corresponding to the sampling rate required for the individual channels. The outputs a b through m constitute the sampled and digitized versions of the N channels present in the wideband input signal . The channelizer thus effectively bandpass filters the N channel signals with different and adjacent center frequencies within the wideband input signal band downconverts them to the complex baseband form and converts them into digital form. This is achieved in the invention without operating any digital unit including the analog to digital conversion at the fast sampling rate and with the filtering hardware requirements essentially equal to those required for filtering a single channel. The channelizer outputs a b through m can then be inputted to various units for processing depending upon the channelizer applications. For example the channelizer outputs a through m may be switched to the inputs of upconverters corresponding to different downlink beams on board the satellite or may be input to digital data detectors in regenerative type satellites.

Referring to a timing diagram for the polyphase clocks is generated by the polyphase clock generator for the case of N 4. The polyphase generator is driven by the clock signal CK with its period Tequal to 1 f. The term Tdenotes the duration available for the purpose of sampling with T Tavailable for A D conversion if a conventional approach were used. In the preferred form the clock CK is not used directly in the channelizer rather the clock CK generates phase staggered clocks Ck CK through CKN each of a frequency f N. Thus the period available for sampling and A D conversion process is increased to T NTwhere T Tand where N 1. Thus each of the A D converters can be relatively slow and inexpensive. The channelizer including the A D converters may be built on a single chip.

The parallel architecture of the high speed A D converter is adapted to receive in complex form the input broadband signal using a set of N parallel sampling circuits whose sampling instances are provided by polyphase clocks CK CK . . . CK. The polyphase clock signals may be generated for the case where N 4 as shown in FIG. . The period Tdenotes the high rate sampling clock and Tdenotes the sampling time required by the sampler. The sampler and A D converter may be on a single chip. In this case the ratio T Tdenotes the duty cycle of the clock. In the high rate A D conversion the available analog to digital conversion time is T T. Usually Tis much less than T. The sampling operation involves switching of an analog gate and charging a capacitor through this gate after which the capacitor holds the sample value during the A D conversion process that involves sequential processing. In the parallel architecture the available time for sampling is T Twith Ttime available for A D conversion where T NTis the total time available for sampling and A D conversion. The sampling is a fast process and can be performed in period Twhen T T. However the A D conversion time is now extended to T T N 1 T. Thus by increasing the value of N this Tperiod can be enlarged to a desired value. The buffers at the A D converter outputs hold the binary word representing the sampled value for the Tduration. At the end of the Tinterval the digital multiplexer reads out the buffers sequentially to the converter outputs with the ibuffer selected during the interval determined by the corresponding clock CK where i 1 2 through N. As the digital multiplexer merely uses digital gating operations the digital multiplexer can operate at high speeds without limiting the speed of operation of the overall circuit. In many applications the digital signal may be split into M streams using a digital demultiplexer. In such cases both multiplexer and demultiplexer are eliminated when N is selected to equal M and considerably simplified when N is selected not equal to M using the digital channelizer. The polyphase channelizer can be integrated with a parallel A D converter architecture. The wideband RF signals are received by the channelizer after being downconverted to an intermediate frequency f. The intermediate frequency fsignals are an input to the integrated polyphase FFT channelizer. The signal is an input to the complex mixer having an output that is an analytic complex valued bandpass signal at the selected IF frequency fand bandwidth B. This analytic signal is sampled at a rate f 1 Thigher than 2B. The rate fmay be an integer submultiple of f. The sampled analytic signal is then A D converted to yield the desired complex valued baseband signal in digital form. Such a baseband signal is then demultiplexed into M channels that are individually filtered by digital polyphase filters with impulse responses u m u m through u m respectively. Integrating the sampling and filtering with the parallel A D conversion enables parallel low speed A D conversion. Hence the IF signal is the input to M low speed A D converters having converter outputs that are inputs to the respective polyphase digital filters also operating at a low rate. The polyphase filter outputs are then processed by the FFT processor. The FFT processor computes FFT transforms. The FFT processor outputs are the desired complex baseband signals having real and imaginary parts that are the real and imaginary parts of the desired baseband channel signals. Hence the polyphase channelizer architecture uses low rate A D conversion for processing high rate digital signals.

The invention enables a parallel architecture of low speed A D converters to create a high speed A D converter. For example ten A D converters operating at 200.0 MHz each can be combined to provide an effective 2.0 GHz converter for increasing the frequency range over which A D conversion can be performed by orders of magnitude. The architecture can be modular and incorporated in a chip set or a single chip with polyphase and FFT architecture providing an efficient translator and channelizer for wideband signals. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

