---

title: In situ membrane integrity test
abstract: An in situ reverse flow shipboard membrane integrity test apparatus and method, for determining if a membrane arrangement is defective. A membrane arrangement within a separation unit is tested when the membrane arrangement is arranged to perform wastewater separating functions. The separation unit includes a first inlet conduit, a first outlet conduit, and a second outlet conduit. An end cap is attached to the second outlet conduit to seal the second outlet conduit. A test air supply connected to the first outlet conduit for supplying an airflow to the membrane and a microparticle source containing microparticles for injecting microparticles into the airflow forming a test airflow. The test airflow is directed towards the membrane, and a filter is positioned over the first inlet conduit. The presence or absence of microparticles on the filter indicates whether or not the membrane arrangement is defective.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07972515&OS=07972515&RS=07972515
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07972515
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081010
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus and method for testing the integrity of a membrane and in particular an in situ arrangement and method to quickly test the integrity of a membrane of a separation unit.

The Navy has developed onboard water treatment systems that can be implemented in military and non military applications. One such treatment system is the ceramic membrane ultrafiltration oily waste membrane system. These systems are very effective and have been shown to produce an effluent that has an oil concentration consistently below 15 ppm.

The filtering member membrane requires frequent replacement as routine maintenance. Replacement membranes are typically packaged and shipped to the fleets for installation. The packaging shipping and installation of typically large expensive heavy and brittle ceramic filtration membranes can cause cracking in the membrane. When installed the membrane is a vital part of the functioning waste water treatment system. If a membrane is cracked or a seal is compromised the entire system fails. Untreated water may pass through a crack in the membrane or via a defective membrane seal allowing waste laden water to be released to the clean water side of the system. A method and arrangement for determining the membrane integrity before commissioning the membrane with waste water is desired. Additionally an in situ arrangement for determining the integrity is desired.

In one aspect the invention is a reverse flow shipboard membrane integrity test system. The test system includes a separation unit having a one or more outer walls and a first inlet conduit for feeding wastewater into the separation unit for treatment thereat. The separation unit of the system further includes a first outlet conduit for discharging filtered water separated from the wastewater and a second outlet conduit for discharging concentrated liquid waste separated from the wastewater. The separation unit further includes a membrane arrangement positioned within the one or more outer walls positioned for separating the wastewater into the filtered water and the concentrated liquid waste. In this aspect the reverse flow shipboard membrane integrity test system also includes an end cap attached to the second outlet conduit sealing the second outlet conduit. An air supply is connected to the first outlet conduit for supplying an airflow to the membrane and a microparticle source containing microparticles is connected to the first outlet conduit and the air supply for injecting microparticles into the airflow forming a test airflow. In this aspect the test airflow is directed towards the membrane and a filter positioned over the first inlet conduit for collecting microparticles thereon.

In another aspect the invention is a reverse flow shipboard membrane integrity test method. The method includes the providing of an onboard separation unit having one or more outer walls and a first inlet conduit for feeding wastewater into the separation unit for treatment thereat. The separation unit is also provided with a first outlet conduit for discharging filtered water separated from the wastewater and a second outlet conduit for discharging concentrated liquid waste separated from the wastewater. The separation unit is further provided with a membrane arrangement positioned within the one or more outer walls for separating the wastewater into the filtered water and the concentrated liquid waste. In this aspect the method further includes covering the first inlet conduit with a filter and sealing the second outlet conduit. The method further includes supplying a test airflow having microparticles therein to the membrane arrangement via the first outlet conduit. In this aspect the reverse flow shipboard membrane integrity test method includes the removing and inspecting of the filter after supplying the test airflow to determine if the membrane arrangement is defective or intact. The membrane arrangement is defective if microparticles are visibly discernable on the filter and intact if microparticles are not visibly discernable on the filter.

As shown in the in situ membrane integrity test system includes a separation unit having one or more outer walls and a filtration membrane arrangement . The membrane arrangement includes a membrane and one or more sealing members which are positioned between the membrane and the one or more outer walls to provide an airtight seal between the members. As shown the membrane is planar. The membrane may be a ceramic material may be multilayered and may vary in surface area thickness size of lumen holes length and pressure resistance. The shape of the membrane arrangement is complementary with the shape of the one or more outer walls . Thus both the one or more outer walls and the membrane arrangement may be any desired shape such as rectangular cylindrical or irregular. The one or more sealing members of the membrane arrangement may circumscribe the membrane along an outer edge of the membrane and may comprise an elastomeric material.

The separation unit includes an inlet conduit for introducing wastewater into the unit for treatment thereof. The unit also includes a first outlet conduit for discharging liquids filtered by the membrane . A second outlet conduit is provided for discharging concentrated liquid waste separated by the membrane .

The system is provided to test the integrity of the membrane arrangement when the membrane arrangement is in an operating position within the separation unit . As shown in the system includes an air supply attached to the first outlet conduit . The air supply provides air directly to the membrane arrangement via the first outlet conduit . also illustrates a microparticle source for injecting microparticles into air provided by the air supply . The microparticles from the source are entrained in the air forming a test airflow which bombards the membrane arrangement . The pressure at which the test airflow is directed through the first outlet conduit is controlled a pressure regulator connected to the air supply .

The system also includes an end cap for sealing shut the second outlet conduit. The system further includes a filter which is positioned over the inlet conduit . In operation the microparticles of the test airflow strike the membrane arrangement . If the membrane arrangement is defective i.e. if the membrane or one or more sealing members include gaps or breaks microparticles penetrate the gaps or breaks and are collected on the filter . If the membrane arrangement is intact the microparticles rebound off the filter and settle in the inlet region . After testing the filter may be removed by an observer for inspection. The presence of microparticles on the filter indicates that the membrane is defective. A clean filter indicates that the membrane is intact.

The separation unit may have a substantially cylindrical outer wall and a substantially hollow cylindrical membrane arrangement within the outer wall . is a perspective illustration of a membrane arrangement according to an embodiment of the invention. The cylindrical membrane includes an upper ring shaped support member and a lower ring shaped support member . A membrane having an upper end supported on the upper ring shaped support member and a lower end supported on the lower ring shaped support member . As shown the membrane arrangement takes the form of a hollow open ended cylinder.

The membrane may be ceramic and may be formed from materials such as silica alumina zirconia silicon carbide silicon nitride titania titanium nitride silicon glass combinations thereof and the like. Pores in the membrane generally have pore sizes ranging from 0.01 to 50 microns although other values outside this range may be employed. Each pore in the membrane may have a size that is substantially equal to the size of every other pore in the membrane. The composition and structure including the porosity of the membrane is selected according to the application. As the case with the membrane the membrane may be multilayered may vary in surface area thickness size of lumen holes length and pressure resistance. shows the membrane arrangement having sealing members and which may be O rings. The sealing members and are located over the upper and lower support members and respectively and are used to provide an airtight seal with the substantially cylindrical outer wall of the separation unit . shows the airtight sealing arrangement. The membrane arrangement may be held in position within the outer wall by the snug elastic fit provided by the sealing members and . Pressure distribution within the separation unit may also contribute to the strength of the airtight seal. Additionally either or both of the upper and lower ring shaped members and may be provided with threaded areas to mate with corresponding threaded areas on the wall of the separation unit . shows possible threaded regions and where threads on the separation unit and threads on upper and lower support members and have a mating relation.

As shown in the separation unit also includes an inlet conduit at a lower end of the separation unit . The separation unit also includes a first outlet conduit extending through the substantially cylindrical outer wall and a second outlet conduit at an upper end of the separation unit . The in situ membrane integrity test system also includes an air supply attached to the first outlet conduit . The air supply provides air to the separation unit via the first outlet conduit . The air supply is attached to a pressure regulator for regulating the pressure at which the air is fed. also shows a microparticle source which injects microparticles into the air stream created by the air supply and pressure regulator . Thus the microparticles are entrained forming a test airflow which as outlined below is used to test the integrity of the membrane arrangement . The microparticles may be any desired shape and size. For example the microparticles may be glass bead microspheres of the order of about 500 microns or garnet powder microspheres of the order of about 15 microns or other particles having sizes between about 500 microns and about 10 microns. It should be noted that each microparticle in the microparticle source may have a size that is substantially equal to the size of every other microparticle in the source .

The system also includes an end cap which as outlined below seals the second outlet preventing the leakage of air during the membrane integrity testing. The system further includes a filter positioned over the inlet for collecting microparticles. The filter may be made from cloth material such as linen cotton polyester and combinations thereof selected to aid in detection of the inert beads. The filter may be held over the inlet by means of a clamping device adhesives or combinations thereof.

The system as outlined above has the capability of testing the membrane arrangement when the membrane arrangement is set up to perform wastewater treatment functions. During wastewater treatment functions when the membrane integrity system is not being employed system elements such as the filter the end cap the air supply the pressure regulator and the microparticle source are not provided in the arrangement. Instead the first inlet conduit is attached to a wastewater source supplying wastewater to be processed by the membrane arrangement . The wastewater is processed and separated into an environmentally friendly water product and a liquid concentrate waste product. The environmentally friendly water product is filtered from wastewater inside the hollow of the membrane arrangement and under pressure seeps through the membrane to the outside of the membrane arrangement . The filtered water product then exits the separation unit via the first outlet conduit which is attached to an evacuation source to evacuate the filtered water. The liquid concentrate waste product exits via the second outlet conduit which is also attached to an evacuation source. The in situ membrane integrity test system may be set up to test for breaks and in the membrane arrangement which includes breaks in the seal before or between wastewater treatment runs.

As outlined above the system includes an air supply and a microparticle source attached to the first outlet conduit . The system also includes an end cap sealing the second outlet conduit and a filter positioned over the inlet . In operation the in situ membrane integrity test system operates as follows. A test airflow created when microparticles from source is injected into an air stream from source is directed into the first outlet conduit towards the membrane arrangement . The pressure regulator controls the pressure at which the test airflow is applied maximizing results without damaging the membrane . The test airflow may be applied at pressures between about 10 psi and about 100 psi depending on the strength of the membrane layer. In one particular embodiment the test airflow is imparted at about 30 psi.

The test airflow which includes microparticles impinges on the membrane arrangement . If the membrane of the arrangement is cracked or broken microparticles in the test airflow pass though the broken or cracked regions and eventually come to rest on the filter at the inlet . The membrane arrangement may also be breached via improper seals and if the seals are not properly arranged in the separation unit . Microparticles that breach the membrane arrangement via the seals are also captured on the filter . If the integrity of the membrane arrangement is intact then the microparticles bounce off the arrangement and settle in an outflow region . The outflow region is generally the sealed region between the membrane arrangement and the substantially cylindrical outer wall .

The filter can be withdrawn and inspected for microparticles to determine if the membrane arrangement is defective or intact. The presence of any microparticles on the filter indicates that the membrane arrangement is defective. If it is determined that the membrane arrangement is defective the defective membrane arrangement may be replaced with a new arrangement which may be tested for its integrity. If it is determined by the absence of microparticles that the membrane arrangement is intact then the air supply and microparticle source may be disconnected from the first outlet conduit and replaced with an evacuation device. Similarly the end cap may be removed from the second outlet conduit and replace with another evacuation device. A wastewater supply may be attached to the inlet conduit after which wastewater processing may commence. During the wastewater treatment the environmentally friendly microparticles are flushed out of the system along with filtered water.

As outlined above the microparticles may be glass bead microspheres of the order of about 500 microns or garnet powder microspheres of the order of about 15 microns or other inert particles having sizes between about 500 microns and about 10 microns. The size of the microparticles is selected based on the size of membrane pores and visibility. As stated above the membrane may have a pore size that may be less than 1 micron and generally in the range of about 0.01 micron to about 50 microns although other values outside this range may be employed. Thus for example larger microspheres of the order of about 500 microns may be employed when testing a membrane of the order of about 50 microns. Additionally the microparticles may be dyed to have bright colors that are easily discernable on the filter. Microparticles may be dyed to be florescent or may be coated with luminous chemicals to enhance visibility. Additionally the filter may also be colored to provide a greater contrast between the microparticles and the filter.

It should be noted that system is similar to system and corresponding elements may have similar physical characteristics including similar dimensions and materials. For example the microparticles of system may be glass bead microspheres of the order of about 500 microns or garnet powder microspheres of the order of about 15 microns or other inert particles having sizes between about 500 microns and about 10 microns. Also the membrane of system may have a pore size that may be less than 1 micron and generally in the range of about 0.01 micron to about 50 microns. Additionally testing conditions may also be similar. Thus the pressure regulator may introduce the test airflow at pressures of about 10 psi to about 100 psi.

Step is the covering the of first inlet conduit with a filter . As outlined above the filter may be held over the inlet by means of a clamping device adhesives such as hook and loop arrangements or combinations thereof. Step is the sealing the of second outlet conduit . The second outlet conduit may be sealed with an end cap which prevents the escape of gases during the membrane integrity testing process. Step is the supplying of a test airflow having microparticles therein to the membrane arrangement . The test airflow is supplied via the first outlet conduit .

Step is the removing and inspecting of the filter after supplying the test airflow to determine if the membrane arrangement is defective or intact. As outlined above if the membrane of the arrangement is cracked or broken microparticles in the test airflow pass though these openings and eventually come to rest on the filter . Microparticles may also breach the membrane arrangement via gaps in the sealing arrangement. By inspecting the filter an observer can determine if the membrane arrangement is defective or intact. The membrane arrangement is defective if microparticles are visibly discernable on the filter and intact if microparticles are not visibly discernable on the filter.

It should be noted that according to the method if it is determined that the membrane arrangement is defective the membrane arrangement may be replaced with another membrane arrangement which may then be tested. Also if the tested membrane arrangement is determined to be intact wastewater treatment may commence. Thus the filter the end cap and the air supply and microparticle sources are removed and a supply of wastewater is connected to the first inlet conduit and evacuation sources connected to the first and second outlet conduits and respectively.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the membrane may be multilayered may vary in surface area thickness size of lumen holes length pressure resistance and shape. Thus although the membrane is illustrated as being planar in one instance and cylindrical in another the membrane may be any desired shape such as cubic or irregular for example. Additionally method steps may take place in various orders. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

