---

title: Method, medium, and system for comparison shopping
abstract: Embodiments of computer implemented systems and methods for comparison shopping are described. One example embodiment includes receiving a data resource associated with a web page, the web page including an offering of a product and product offering terms, extracting product descriptors from the data source, requesting a search of marketplace offerings of the product based on the product descriptors, receiving results of the search (the results including marketplace offering terms of the marketplace offerings of the product), and displaying the marketplace offering terms, thereby facilitating comparison of the product offering terms with the marketplace offering terms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262784&OS=09262784&RS=09262784
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09262784
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 912 077 filed Apr. 16 2007 PUBLICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to a system and method for comparison shopping.

Comparing products listed for sale by an individual seller online store or online marketplace to products listed for sale by another individual seller online store or online marketplace may be difficult and time consuming. A buyer may not be aware of other marketplaces or may not be skilled at entering precise key words when searching for similar items. Further it takes a considerable effort for a buyer to note different pricing and shipping arrangements from several online stores or marketplaces.

Typically a user shopping around for the best price of a product may have to go to different Internet sites and compare prices. For example a user looking for a particular DVD player may go to the Best Buy website first note the price and then go to the Circuit City website in order to compare prices between the two online vendors. Thus the user would perform multiple clicks and browse through various web pages. The system and method for comparison shopping introduced in this disclosure may permit using fewer clicks to compare prices from different vendors within the same browser window thus saving the user time and energy.

The system and method for comparison shopping in some example embodiments is a tool e.g. a browser plug in that may be utilized to compare the price of a product displayed on a web page to prices of the same or similar product available at other electronic marketplaces e.g. eBay . The system and method for comparison shopping may extract keywords appropriately describing the product or service from the source document of a web page and utilize the extracted keywords in an online marketplace search.

The system and method for comparison shopping may be utilized by sellers and buyers alike. Sellers may find it convenient to list a product on a marketplace while the right category and product description is generated for them automatically. Buyers may find it convenient to be able to see the prices from other vendors without leaving the product web page. Moreover the system and method for comparison shopping may generate statistical data such as the lowest and the average price of the product across a marketplace or the number of auctions set to end within a certain time e.g. one hour . Links to the product listings included in the generated statistics may be provided.

In some example embodiments the method and system for comparison shopping may facilitate comparison of a product a user is viewing on a web page with the offerings that are posted on one or more marketplaces or with the offerings posted on different versions of the same marketplace. For example a marketplace that features both auctions and fixed price transactions e.g. eBay may have a version that offers only fix price transactions e.g. eBay Express .

The client devices in some example embodiments may include a Graphical User Interface GUI . In a typical GUI instead of offering only text menus or requiring typed commands the system presents graphical icons visual indicators or special graphical elements called widgets that may be utilized to allow the user to interact with the client application . The client devices may be configured to utilize icons used in conjunction with text labels or text navigation to fully represent the information and actions available to users.

The client devices may include a mobile telephone a computer a television TV set and a personal digital assistant PDA . The user in some example embodiments is a person interacting with the client application via the client devices . In some other embodiments the user may be represented by an automated process designed to simulate a person.

The client application in some example embodiments is an Internet browser configured to display web pages including products for sale based on an underlying data resource e.g. HTML file . Typically the underlying data resource may include information displayed by the client application with certain parts of the data resource being more informative than others. For example the header of an HTML file may include a title that describes the product being displayed.

In some example embodiments the title describing the product may be parsed and product descriptors may be extracted. Thereafter the extracted descriptors may be utilized to search the electronic marketplace in order to compare prices. Each result of the search may be categorized as being an auction or a fixed price item. Product statistics such as the average price for each category may be displayed. Other categorizations may be displayed for example auctions set to end with a certain time period e.g. 1 hour .

In some example embodiments the system and method for comparison shopping may utilize a browser toolbar with various buttons. For example there may exist two buttons one for a buyer and one for a seller. When a buyer selects the buyer s button the buyer will be taken to the electronic marketplace with the product its category pre filled and the results of the search displayed. This may be implemented by parsing the title of the underlying data resource. For example an HTML file may include a title that is anchored by two HTML tags and . In other example embodiments other information included in the underlying data resource may be parsed in order to identify descriptors of the product displayed by the client application and to generate the search query.

In some example embodiments the browser toolbar is a plug in such as a Browser Helper Object BHO for Microsoft s Internet Explorer or an extension for the Mozilla Firefox web browser. In addition to providing buyers with price comparisons the plug in may dynamically display advertisements for related products or may direct buyers to related blogs. The plug in may be capable of displaying deals with buttons like soon to end auctions or may automatically start a sale with a push of a button. The example plug in may be used with any product page on the Internet. The plug in may permit direct linking to a product having certain attributes for example the lowest bidding price auction ending within 1 hour or the lowest fixed price. Additionally the total number of fixed price offerings of the product may be displayed. The plug in may also display the total number of items with auctions ending within a certain period of time and their average price.

In some example embodiments the system and method for comparison shopping permits automatic finding of the best deals ending soon and provides relevant information in order to describe such deals in sufficient detail to enable a user to assess the deals. Thus for example the lowest fixed price item for a particular product can be found along with a corresponding auction that has a lowest price with both conveniently displayed for a user to view. Another example includes providing a toolbar giving one click access to an auction that is ending within a predetermined time. The toolbar may also display supporting data such as the lowest fixed price and average selling price to help the user make an informed decision. The client application utilized to present the information to a user is described in more detail below with reference to .

The comparison shopping processor may be implemented as web service application. illustrates a more detailed block diagram of a comparison shopping processor in accordance with an example embodiment. The comparison shopping processor in some example embodiments may include a communication module an extracting module a requesting module a receiving module a displaying module a parsing module and a suggestion module .

Note that although the embodiment of implements comparison shopping processor as a web service in other embodiments the comparison shopping processor may be located within the client application e.g. Internet Explorer . In some other example embodiments the comparison shopping processor may have a distributed architecture. For example one distributed architecture may perform only parsing and keyword extraction in the client application with the remaining work performed by a remote server based application.

In some example embodiments the results of a search of more than one marketplace or more than one version of the same marketplace may be displayed side by side on the same web page. In some example embodiments the user may be able to exercise control over which marketplaces are searched.

Referring back to the comparison shopping processor of the communication module may be configured to receive a data resource associated with an offering of a product along with product offering terms. The data resource in some example embodiments may be an HTML XML or some other markup language file including product description and the price of the product. The extracting module may be configured to extract product descriptors from the data source. For example the title of the web page included in the header of an HTML file may read Circuit City Canon Digital EOS . The extracting module may strip off the words Circuit City thus leaving only text that it considers to be relevant and thereby providing better search results.

In one example embodiment the comparison shopping processor maintains a set of web site parsing templates that the extracting module may use to determine how to parse particular web site. The web site parsing templates could specify what words could be safely ignored such as the name of the web site retailer and where to locate specific information that would be useful for performing a search such as how the web site encodes brand names and product model numbers.

Once the keywords or descriptors are determined the descriptors may be utilized to search the electronic marketplace . The search results may include various attributes associated with the offerings for the product on the electronic marketplace . The attributes may include offering terms such as price or time until the end of an auction. Other offering terms returned with the search results may include categories. The comparison shopping processor may then process the results of the search and the offering attributes to generate statistical data.

The requesting module may be configured to request a search of marketplace offerings of a product based on product descriptors and the receiving module may be configured to receive results of the search along with the marketplace offering terms of the product.

In some example embodiments comparison shopping processor may get an address of the data resource as Uniform Resource Locator URL of the data resource from the client device . The comparison shopping processor may then obtain the data resource from the address and parse the received data resource. A search string generated by the parsing of the data resource may be submitted to a marketplace Application Programming Interface API which may be an internal marketplace API or an API that is open to the marketplace development community. In some example embodiments the search string may be sent simultaneously to more then one API.

The parsing module may be configured to parse the data resource. The parsing module may be included in the extracting module or may exist on its own within the comparison shopping processor . The parsing module may also use the set of web site parsing templates to help parse the data resource if the data resource is in the form of a web page from a web site that is commonly used with the comparison shopping processor .

The suggestion module may be utilized to suggest titles of the product based on the product descriptors. Thus a user may be provided with possible titles of the product displayed on the web page when the extracting module may not with a certainty determine the descriptors of the product. For example a user may be provided with a keyword and a question is that what you are looking for In some other example embodiments the comparison shopping processor may cause areas of the product web page to be highlighted and clickable while suggesting that the user click on the highlighted area that appropriately describes the product.

In some example embodiments a filter object may be utilized between the client application and the comparison shopping processor . The filter object may permit displaying of information without requiring a browser toolbar installation. In some other example embodiments the information may be included in a different toolbar providing the user with an option to enable it on demand. More detail on the above mentioned modules of the comparison shopping processor is provided below with reference to .

The toolbar button in some example embodiments may be configured to represent the lowest bidding price auctions ending in one hour e.g. 43.02 . Links to these auctions may also be provided on the toolbar button . The toolbar button may be configured to represent a count down timer for the lowest bidding item ending within one hour e.g. 25 23 . The toolbar button may be configured to represent the lowest fixed price for the product e.g. 44.99 . Links to the corresponding websites may be provided on the toolbar button .

The toolbar button may be configured to represent the total number of items on the electronic marketplace and their price range e.g. 178 0.01 to 92.95 . The toolbar button may be configured to represent the total number of fixed price items on the electronic marketplace and the average price e.g. 46 items in total average price of 73.25 . The toolbar button may be configured to represent the total number of items ending within one hour and their average price e.g. 2 items ending within an hour average price of 52.01 . The toolbar button may be configured to represent the number of items on a fixed price marketplace and their average prices e.g. 8 fixed price items average price of 58.36 . The toolbar button may be configured to represent the button initiating the price comparison process e.g. GO . The web page may display a product image and a product description .

In some example embodiments the information about the product displayed by the client application may be extracted from the data resource . The data resource may be parsed in order to ascertain product descriptors. In some example embodiments only parts of the data resource may be parsed. For example only the header of the data resource may be parsed to ascertain the product descriptors. The data resource shows an example header of a Circuit City website describing the Canon EOS 40D camera. The title of the header reads Buy the Canon EOS 40D 10.1 Megapixel Digital SLR Camera Kit with 28 135 mm Lens and other Digital SLRs at circuitcity.com . Upon clicking on the toolbar button described with reference to the header of the data resource may be parsed by the parsing module of the comparison shopping processor of . Thereafter words such circuitcity.com may be deemed irrelevant to the search and not used to generate search descriptors.

It may be typical of an Internet store to have information about the product displayed in the title section. Thus as already mentioned above in some embodiments only the title may be parsed. The title may be parsed at the client or may be sent to the marketplace internal API for keyword extraction. In some other example embodiments the whole of the data resource may be processed in order to extract product keywords. This may be beneficial in cases where it is difficult to determine the precise model of the product from the header information. For example the data resource may contain information about Canon Rebel 40D but the header may only refer to Canon Digital Camera without a specific model. It would be beneficial then to parse the whole content of the data resource in an attempt to determine the exact model.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with communication module receiving a data resource of an offering of a product. The date resource may include the product offering terms. At operation the extracting module may extract the product descriptors from the data resource and at operation the requesting module may request a search of marketplace offerings of the product based on the product descriptors. At operation the receiving module may receive the results of the search. The results of the search may include marketplace offering terms of the product. At operation the displaying module may display the offering terms to facilitate comparison of the offering of the product to the marketplace offerings of the product. A more detailed example method for comparison shopping is described with reference to .

At decision block it may be determined whether additional user input is needed. Such determination may be made because the information contained in the date resource is not sufficient to ascertain the descriptors of the product. If it is determined at decision block that additional user input is needed then at operation the suggestion module may suggest to the user various descriptors by displaying user options. In some example embodiments the user may be able to enter descriptors by typing. The method may then proceed to receive user selections of input descriptors by the communication module at operation . Whether user input was requested or not the method may then proceed with the communication module sending the product descriptors to the marketplace API at operation .

At operation the receiving module may receive results of the search including offering terms associated with the offerings and at operation the data resource may be modified to display the offering terms. The output offering terms may be processed in a manner appropriate for the requesting client device. Thus a full web browser may display many results whereas a mobile telephone or other smaller device can only display limited results. At operation the displaying module may display the offering terms to facilitate comparison to the offering of the product.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus a system and method for comparison shopping have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

