---

title: Systems and methods for a retirement location advisor
abstract: A system for providing retirement location advice may comprise at least one subsystem that receives location characteristic preference input from a customer, at least one subsystem that finds possible locations that a customer could afford during their retirement based on a retirement plan of the customer and the location characteristic preference input of the customer, and at least one subsystem that displays the possible locations found.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645243&OS=08645243&RS=08645243
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08645243
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081015
---
The patent applications below including the present patent application are filed concurrently and share a common title and disclosure each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 

Choosing a place to retire can be difficult especially during economically hard times. Retiring individuals are becoming more concerned about how far they can stretch their money while maintaining an acceptable standard of living during retirement. Choosing an affordable place to retire before actual retirement may often be complicated due to the fact that current income and financial status may not be applicable during retirement. Even if a retirement plan is in place a person may still need help in finding locations to retire based on the retirement plan and other preference factors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

a retirement location advisor are provided. For several embodiments a system for providing retirement location advice may comprise at least one subsystem that receives location characteristic preference input from a customer at least one subsystem that finds possible locations that a customer could afford during their retirement based on a retirement plan of the customer and the location characteristic preference input of the customer and at least one subsystem that displays the possible locations found.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of various embodiments and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice the embodiments.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing device suitable for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods for a retirement location advisor may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the embodiments. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary computing environment . For example a computer game console may also include those items such as those described below for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below.

Aspects of the embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory a graphics interface a graphics processing unit GPU video memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the embodiments. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the embodiments e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the embodiments in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the embodiments are not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary networked computing environment in which many computerized processes may be implemented to perform the processes described below. For example parallel computing may be part of such a networked environment with various clients on the network of using and or implementing a retirement location advisor. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that networks can connect any computer or other client or server device or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with aspects of the embodiments each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram illustrating an example of a retirement location advisor system. Shown is an example customer example customer preference input example location recommendations information an example retirement location advisor engine example stored current retirement plan financial information an example of the customer s other financial information at banks and other financial institutions and example of location information and statistics . The customer may be located remotely from the retirement location advisor engine and communicate customer preferences regarding desired location characteristics remotely to the retirement location advisor engine over any communications network such as for example over the Internet. The retirement location advisor engine may have a current retirement plan and other financial information of the customer stored locally at or remotely from the retirement location advisor engine . The retirement location advisor engine for example may have access to a retirement plan or other financial information of the customer that the customer had previously provided. For example the retirement plan and other financial information may comprise but is not limited to information on amounts of money the customer has currently saved for retirement projected future contributions for retirement specific savings accounts Individual Retirement Account IRA information 401 k information life insurance accounts trust accounts assets companies owned stocks and brokerage accounts other investment account information and projections on returns from retirement and investment account projected disbursements from retirement and investment accounts plans for selling assets plans for withdrawing from accounts projected or planned future income etc.

Location information and statistics may be communicated to the retirement location advisor engine from local or remote servers information stores 3party systems other banks and financial service institutions information aggregation services etc. and may be accessed by the retirement location advisor engine in an automated fashion over any communications network. Such information may comprise retirement information as described above and or other financial information of the customer relevant to making recommendations of retirement locations to the customer .

Likewise location information and statistics may be communicated to the retirement location advisor engine from local or remote servers information stores 3party systems real estate information service providers geographic and map information service providers etc. and may be accessed by the retirement location advisor engine in an automated fashion over any communications network. Such location information and statistics may comprise but is not limited to cost of living statistics and on line reports weather and climate statistics population statistics census statistics demographic statistics crime reports mortgage rates rental rates and housing prices in on homes of varying sizes local things to do auto and homeowner insurance costs other customer indicated types of information etc.

Location recommendations and associated information may be communicated to the customer over any aired or wireless communications network such as for example over the Internet.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process for a retirement location advisor. First the retirement location advisor system may receive location characteristic preference data from a customer. This location preference data may be in response to specific prompts menus and choices given by the retirement location advisor system through a user interface. This information may comprise but is not limited to information regarding cost of living things to do in a particular area geographical preferences population statistics distance from large city weather and climate statistics crime rates educational statistics demographic statistics etc. For example a customer may indicate that they want to live in a community limited to a certain range of crime rate and having a certain range of rainfall each year and is no further than a specified distance from a large city which also may be defined by the customer .

The retirement location advisor then acquires information regarding a retirement plan and current financial status of the customer through various possible channels as described above for example. In an automated fashion the retirement location advisor then finds possible locations that customer could afford based on their retirement plan and their current financial status. This may be accomplished for example by comparing cost of living location information previously acquired by the retirement location advisor on various locations throughout the world to the projected financial situation of the customer at the time of retirement indicated by the customer in their retirement plan.

The retirement location advisor then cross references the resulting possible affordable locations with customer preferences to get subset of locations matching one or more preferences indicated by the customer. The retirement location advisor may then display this subset of locations to the customer with associated location information and or financial projections. These displayed locations may also be in a sorted list of locations that best match the customer s preferences with the locations that most match the customer s preferences at the top of the list. A percentage of how well each displayed location matches the customer s preferences may also be shown.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process when a customer selects a location provided by the retirement location advisor. The retirement location advisor first displays a subset of locations to the customer with associated location information and financial projections. Next a selection of a particular displayed location is received by the retirement location advisor. The selection may be made by the customer clicking on a link button voice command or by other selection mechanism through an interface of the retirement location advisor.

The retirement location advisor then provides financial projections of how long the customer s retirement money will last in a selected location. This may be accomplished for example by accessing the customer s current retirement plan and other financial data as described above. For example the financial projections may comprise an estimate on how long the customer s retirement money will last if they chose to stay at a particular location displayed throughout their retirement. Also the retirement location advisor may provide an insurance quote for a selected location based on current automobile s owned by customer. For example the retirement location advisor may have ready access to the current automobiles owned by the customer if the retirement location advisor is a system of the customer s auto insurance provider or if the customer s auto insurance provider communicates automobile information to the retirement location advisor over a communications network such as the Internet or other network.

The retirement location advisor may also display available homes for purchase or rent in a selected location. The customer may then select an available home in the selected location. The retirement location advisor may then update financial projections of how long the customer s retirement money will last in selected location based on home selected and display this updated information. Also the retirement location advisor may provide a mortgage quote and or homeowners or renters insurance information for the selected home. This information may also be displayed with or separately from the updated financial projections. Also the financial projections may be updated and displayed again to account for a specific mortgage quote and or insurance policy selected by the customer.

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitations. Further although embodiments been described herein with reference to particular means and materials the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

