---

title: Network-extensible reconfigurable media appliance
abstract: Extensible reconfigurable media appliance for security and entertainment captures images digitally for storage. Digital effects and filters are applied to incoming video stream on-the-fly or to video data stored in memory. Digital effects and filters are dynamically stored, modified, updated or deleted, providing extensible reconfigurable effects studio. Digital media appliance communicates wirelessly with other media appliances, computers, security systems, video storage, email, chat, cellular services or PDAs to provide seamless integration of captured video stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07805405&OS=07805405&RS=07805405
owner: 
number: 07805405
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080926
---
This application is a continuation of US patent application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 448 202 filed on May 28 2003.

Invention relates to electronic media devices and processing methods particularly to networked reconfigurable media appliance.

Conventional digital video media appliances rely on external computing resources for post processing of recorded audio or video signals since limited on appliance editing and filtering capabilities may render such tasks impractical. Furthermore limited on appliance software extensibility and limited communication with external resources leave conventional digital media appliances as standalone audio or video recording tools limited by factory loaded on appliance processing capacity.

Accordingly there is need for network extensible and easily reconfigurable media appliance capable of communicating over networks and allowing for extension of on appliance audio or video processing software and tagging of recorded audio or video signals.

Network extensible reconfigurable media appliance senses incoming audio and or video and encodes and stores in media appliance memory or alternatively relays over network to recipient. On appliance digital audio and or video effects and filters process audio and or video data stored in memory as well as incoming audio and or video stream on the fly. Media appliance dynamically stores modifies updates and deletes on appliance set of digital effects and filters providing mobile extensible reconfigurable effects studio. Media appliance communicates wirelessly and or over wire with other media appliances computers security systems video storage Global Positioning System GPS services Internet cellular services and or personal digital assistants PDA providing seamless integration of captured audio and or video stream with off appliance resources and or services. Audio and or video wireless biometric and GPS input and or output as well as on appliance acceleration detector render media appliance suitable for security applications. Extensible reconfigurable on appliance effects and filters studio render media appliance for entertainment and video production or editing applications.

Media unit comprises audio and or video A V sensor for sensing incoming audio and or video. Sensed video is stored in memory using video format such as Digital Video Disc DVD PAL Digital Video Cassette PAL DVC PAL or NTSC Laserdisc 24P HD inch MPEG 2 MPEG 4 DV 25 DV 50 IMIX ISMA etc. H.264 AVI DV DVCAM DVCPRO DVCPRO 25 50 100 VHS D VHS W VHS Digital 8 Digital S D1 D2 D5 HD Betacam SX Digital Betacam other digital ENG format Motion JPEG any other HDTV format NTSC PAL HDD RAID Disk Arrays and or other format for encoding video specifications for describing these formats are herein incorporated by reference .

Media unit optionally comprises biometric module . Biometric module comprises finger print scanner retinal scanner and or other element for collecting a biometric sample and stores scanned biometric data and or result of biometric identification process in memory . For example a data structure is stored comprising a digital representation of collected biometric sample for authorization based on comparison with previously stored biometric identifier. Biometric module optionally couples with a micro array chip for genetically based identification.

Media unit optionally comprises reconfigurable logic and or software for performing programmable audio and or video sensing or for conversion to or from audio and or video formats.

Controller comprises microprocessor such as one from the Intel Centrino processor family the specification of which is herein incorporated by reference and optionally comprises co processor Digital Signal Processing DSP unit array processor and or reconfigurable logic . Controller performs audio and or video processing on audio and or video data residing in memory . Optionally in real time manner controller performs on the fly audio processing and or on the fly video processing on incoming encoded audio data and or incoming encoded video data prior to storage of resulting processed audio data and or resulting processed video data in memory .

Controller is implemented in Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC blocks synthesizable intellectual property cores cell processors reconfigurable logic blocks Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Tensilica s XTensa chip architecture and or instruction set Single or Multiple Instruction Single or Multiple Data S MIS MD architecture signal processing chips Sony Cell chip and or other architecture for performing audio and or video processing.

Controller and or A V sensor may perform color space conversion brightness white balance backlight compensation gain control activity detection motion detection motion tracking gamma correction sharpening multi frame noise reduction depth estimation 2 D bad pixel correction video compression video stabilization digital pan digital tilt digital zoom and or mosaicing for building panoramic images from successive frames.

Communication unit comprises radio frequency RF transceiver for communicating via radio waves e.g. over cellular or other wireless network and or network controller for communicating via a wired and or wireless network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network etc. .

Communication unit optionally comprises subscriber information module SIM unit and or smart card unit for storage and or retrieval of information about a user such as user preference subscribed service permission account information etc. and or for allowing usage of media appliance by one or more users.

Communication unit optionally comprises GPS module for receiving GPS data over satellite. Optionally GPS module is a micro GPS transponder implemented in single chip or chipset.

Communication unit optionally comprises acceleration detector such as a gyroscope a single chip accelerometer or other element for detecting acceleration for determining orientation and or acceleration of media appliance .

Communication unit optionally comprises reconfigurable logic or software for performing programmable protocol translation format conversion network packet processing network packet compression and or decompression communication encryption and or decryption and or other communication processing.

Power module provides power for media appliance and comprises AC and or DC source portable rechargeable battery fuel cell e.g. direct methanol fuel cell etc. and or other source for providing electrical power. Optionally media appliance employs MICA microsensor platform for low power wireless sensor networks herein incorporated by reference.

Optionally media appliance architecture conforms to Advanced Telecommunication Computing Architecture AdvancedTCA herein incorporated by reference.

I O module preferably has audio and video outputs. I O module preferably communicates with on appliance display or screen unit and on appliance speaker for displaying video and generating audio. Optionally display unit comprises a teleprompter for displaying visual prompts such as text and or pictures .

Optionally I O module communicates wirelessly wired over cellular network over LAN and or over WAN such as Internet to send and or receive GPS data Digital Rights Management DRM meta data audio and or video plugins and or other instructions and or data for processing and or tagging of audio and or video data. Optionally I O module has video and audio inputs for receiving audio and video signals from external audio and or video source such as a camera a PDA a media repository a satellite a security service a DRM service a biometric service a GPS service a PC or workstation a cellular service or cellular device or other device or service communicating with media appliance . Media appliance optionally has network controller for communicating with other devices and or services over a network.

Optionally memory stores software instructions and data implementing billing and or business methods such as a time based pay per view and or micro billing feature. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field describing a viewing such as a home viewing of a video clip of video stream and or a field indicating an amount to be charged for the viewing and or a field identifying a party to be charged.

Optionally memory stores meta data and or instructions for implementing DRM e.g. Disney Media Asset Management MAM format Resource Definition Framework RDF implementation such as Adobe s XMP eXtensible Metadata Framework or other scheme for managing meta data. For example an XMP packet data structure comprising a header an XML meta data a trailer and a padding field is employed. Optionally memory stores data and or instructions for implementing DRM according to a Right Expression Language Data Model for example employing Extensible Rights Markup Language XrML . Optionally memory stores meta data and or instructions for implementing proposed Global Release Identifier Syntax GRID for example employing a data structure having an Identifier Scheme an Issuer Code a Release Number and a Checksum.

Optionally memory stores instructions and or data for performing digital authentication encryption decryption key generation digital signing digital watermarking and or other instructions for performing security and or privacy related computation on audio and or video data DRM data billing data and or conditions sensitive personal data or other data residing in media appliance and or communicated to or from media appliance . For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field describing an encryption and or decryption key and further stores instructions for encrypting a video stream using the encryption and or decryption key.

Optionally memory stores instructions and or data for performing identity recognition such as facial recognition emotion recognition voice recognition and or other pattern or identity recognition on video data and or on incoming video signal. For example memory stores a data structure comprising an identifier for a database against which image recognition is to be performed for example a database of faces for recognizing faces in a crowd. The database may be stored partially or completely internally on media appliance or reside externally on a server. As another example memory stores a data structure comprising a feature extracted from a video stream and or video clip using image extraction instructions stored in memory and the extracted feature is used for a data base query or is sent to a server for further handling.

Optionally memory stores instructions and or data for performing authoring and or digital video editing e.g. linear or non linear editing compositing and or special effects such as Apple s Final Cut Pro software. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a bit rate associated with the encoding of a video clip and or video stream. As another example memory stores a data structure comprising author information genre information title characters actors genre story activities viewer demographics locations scenes backgrounds props objects set pieces or other information pertaining to a video clip and or video stream.

Optionally memory stores instructions and or data for tagging the digital representation of a sensed scene video stream and or video clip with meta data. For example memory stores a data structure comprising time media appliance location such as provided by GPS module media appliance orientation and or media appliance acceleration such as provided by acceleration detector multi lingual features allowing for translation subtitles voice over etc. cues to a theater automation system such as instructions for house lights to go up half way up or down or instructions to open or close curtains etc. instructions for allowing or disallowing content such as trailers or promotional clips to play next to other similar content information indicating suitability of content for different audiences such as children information indicating any promotional offers products and or services such as advertisements product catalogs and or coupons for products and or services information allowing for organizing and or managing meta data available to advertisers and or service providers and or other information describing identifying and or relating to content.

DRM meta data and or instructions optionally comprise flags for implementing rights and or limitations of reproduction rights and or limitations of public performance rights and or limitations of display rights and or limitations of distribution rights and or limitations of importation rights and or limitations of transmission or access rights and or provisions under Digital Millennium Copyright Act DMCA rights and or limitations of caching rights and or limitations of browsing rights and or limitations of storage rights and or limitations of transfer such as burning to Compact Disk CD or DVD rights and or limitations of referring or linking or framing rights and or limitations of streaming or downloading rights and or limitations of advertising or other rights and or limitations and or provisions. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field identifying a video clip or video stream and a field for indicating whether a reproduction right is granted for the identified video clip of video stream. In another example memory stores a data structure comprising a field identifying a video clip or video stream and a field for indicating whether a public performance and or display right is granted for the identified video clip of video stream. Other digital rights can be implemented analogously. DRM meta data and or instructions optionally support secure promotion sale delivery distribution and or usage tracking of digital content. Optionally execution environment is partitioned into kernel versus user space and or into standard versus trusted partitions according to Microsoft s Next Generation Secure Computing Base NGSCB .

Media appliance optionally inserts deletes and or modifies a label in an RDF e.g. XMP tag describing a media segment.

Media appliance optionally implements content authenticity device authentication and or user authentication. Content authenticity comprises digital watermarking digital fingerprinting and or other technique for content authentication. For example memory stores instructions for reading an identifier describing a source of a video clip and or video stream wherein the identifier is embedded in a digital watermark within the video clip and or video stream. As another example memory stores a data structure comprising a field identifying one or more authorized sources for downloading video clips and or video streams. Device authentication comprises smartcards public key certificates and or device for performing authentication. User authentication comprises biometrics using biometric module passwords and or other technique for performing user authentication.

Media appliance optionally implements in software e.g. residing in memory and or hardware an abstraction layer between application and display such as DVB Digital Video Broadcast and or MHP Multimedia Home Platform abstraction layers. Specifications for incorporating the DVB and MHP formats are herein incorporated by reference.

Media appliance optionally communicates with media repository for downloading and or uploading video and or audio clips video and or audio meta data such as author information genre information title characters actors genre story activities demographics locations scenes backgrounds props objects set pieces etc.

Media appliance optionally communicates with DRM service for downloading and or uploading DRM meta data. Optionally media appliance generates a message indicating an infringement and or other violation of digital rights according to a set of DRM rules such as copying without permission broadcasting without permission etc. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field identifying a video clip and or video stream and an indicator of a violation of a DRM rule such as an act of broadcasting the video clip and or video stream without permission.

Media appliance optionally communicates with security service to upload security information such as video and or audio record of scene identity recognition data as computed by identity recognition instructions GPS data as provided by GPS module directional data as provided by acceleration detector and or to download security information such as location to watch identity data to store for matching against images and or voice audio signature to store for matching against audio clips. For example media appliance sends a data structure to security service wherein the data structure comprises a field identifying a person and a field identifying the location of the media appliance at the time the person is sensed by media appliance . Optionally media appliance couples to police authority for providing live and or recorded footage and or triggering alarm and calling police according to built in media appliance intelligence for identifying potential dangerous and or suspicious conditions.

Media appliance optionally communicates with biometric service to upload biometric information obtained by biometric module and or to download biometric signature for matching against incoming biometric data.

Media appliance optionally communicates with GPS service such as GPS satellites to receive GPS information. For example if media appliance moves into a restricted area as indicated by GPS service and or by information residing on media appliance and or obtained remotely GPS unit activates an alert. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field identifying a restricted geographical area and media appliance generates an alarm when location of media appliance as indicated by GPS service falls within the restricted geographic area.

Media appliance optionally communicates with news service and or other objective information service. In one embodiment media appliance receives a data structure from news service the data structure representing a digital template and comprising a field identifying a location and one or more fields identifying elements to be covered by reporter such as a person to interview a particular place to point out to viewers other news reporters covering the same news story etc. .

Media appliance optionally communicates with sports broadcasting network game show broadcasting network and or other gaming or competition related network . In one embodiment media appliance receives a data structure from sports broadcasting network the data structure comprising a field identifying one or more competing parties a field identifying a location of the competition and a field indicating the competition schedule.

Media appliance optionally communicates with private service . In one embodiment media appliance receives a data structure from movie production source or network the data structure comprising a field identifying one or more movie or media production a field identifying a location of the production a field indicating the production schedule a field indicating one or more scenes and a field indicating one or more cast or staff members.

Media appliance optionally communicates with renderer to display video data. Renderer comprises a cinema or movie theater television receiver computer display IMAX display a Digital Audio Broadcast DAB broadcaster a satellite broadcaster a digital TV a High Definition TV HDTV a PDA and or cellular phone or other mobile device display .

Media appliance optionally communicates with a personal computer PC and or workstation and or other computing device for synchronization of data residing on media appliance with computer optionally interfacing with media repository manager and or program manager residing on computer . For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field indicating the time of last synchronization of media appliance with computer or media repository manager or program manager residing on computer . Communication proceeds wirelessly and or via a cradle coupled to computer into which media appliance is placed for synchronization. In one embodiment media appliance comprises a user interface offering a synchronization button hard button on media appliance and or soft button displayed in media appliance s graphical display activation of which causes described data synchronization.

Media appliance optionally communicates with PDA cellular service and or device and or other mobile service and or device for displaying video and or audio data.

Media appliance optionally communicates with other networked media appliance for exchanging video and or audio clips and or for collaborating in the production of a media project wherein a media appliance is assigned a token number string etc. statically or dynamically for identifying the media appliance. Media appliance optionally communicates with other networked media appliance to enable video conferencing and or multi way collaboration for example in business meetings real estate transactions distance learning sports fashion shows surveillance training games tourism etc. For example memory stores a data structure comprising a field for describing a group of collaborating media appliances and a field identifying media appliance itself among the group of collaborating media appliances.

In one embodiment I O module presents a user interface UI comprising a combination of hard physical buttons and or soft graphical buttons for accessing and using billing functions DRM functions authentication identity recognition digital editing of media and or other services as shown in and described above. For example a view for example comprising a button is presented via display to allow approval of a billing associated with the viewing of video data. As another example a view is presented via display allowing selection of one or more audio and or video data for submission or transmission to a server such as a news server or a sports server as described above. Selection of a presented audio and or video data designates the selected data for submission or transmission to the server. Optionally interfaces and media appliances are physically separate wherein through an interface a user can tap into a pool or one or more media appliances to view available audio and or video data and or select one or more available audio and or video for submission or transmission to a server as described above. As another example a view is presented at server for approving the inclusion of a submitted or transmitted audio and or video data into a script or a digital template for a news or sports program wherein the audio and or video data is submitted by a media appliance client to server as described above.

A script or storyboard is downloaded over a wired and or wireless network made available via removable storage e.g. memory card and or disk or is alternatively created on media appliance. A digital template describes how to construct a video and or multimedia document by sensing i.e. shooting or recording and assembling individual scenes and or segments in particular order and is downloaded over a wired and or wireless network or created on media appliance. Alternatively user of media appliance may decide not to consult a script storyboard or digital template and proceed directly to sensing .

One example of a template is a template for insurance inspection of vehicle accidents wherein the template indicates slots for video clips taken from various angles of the vehicles involved in the accident as prescribed by an insurance company.

Optionally media appliance adaptively guides media appliance operator in making discretionary decisions to take alternate script paths and or alter flow of script or storyboard or digital template or generally deviate from the script for example when dealing with emergency conditions and or events which do not occur according to script. Such guidance may employ non deterministic scripts according to logic specified using Bayesian modeling neural networks fuzzy logic and or other technique for making decisions under complex conditions and or under incomplete information. For example in one embodiment a cast member in a script is described by fuzzy attributes such as a female actor with at least five years drama experience in leading role instead of or in addition of identifying the lead role actor by name . Then in case the lead actor canceling her engagement instructions employing fuzzy logic perform a search for actors matching the fuzzy attributes to dynamically recommend one or more candidates to fill the role.

Optionally digital template or script is non linear allowing for one or more branching points. A branching point allows the script and or template to flow in more than one path. For example scene or clip or stream A can be followed by scene B or scene C depending on which branch of the branching point following A is taken. For a viewer a media presentation prepared according to such non linear template or script allows for a multiplicity of presentations comprising different scene or clip or stream orderings. For a viewer the decision of which of the alternate paths to follow in a branching point can be viewer selected randomly chosen based on external variable such as a combination of one or more of weather temperature stock quotes time of day or year viewing location amount of money left in viewer s account or any other external variables based on biometric sensing of viewer based on the result of an identity or emotion recognition procedure on viewer such as distinguishing between happiness sadness excitement apathy interest in a particular aspect of the presentation and or other emotions or indications of interest exhibited by viewer based on real time input from viewer or from larger audience such as deliberate viewer decision of which script or template path to take next provided via an input device or detected by the presentation module or based on other variables. Such non linear template or script allows for example for the production and presentation of a PG rated R rated or X rated version of a given movie depending on the audience for example a parent may elect to view the R rated version of the movie while electing a PG rated presentation for the children . As another example a wedding template or script may allow for different presentations based on whether the bride s family or the groom s family is viewing. As another example a mystery presentation may offer alternate endings based on viewer input or external variables as described above.

Media appliance senses video and or audio and stores a digital representation in memory . Optionally multiple audio and or video streams are sensed either by the same media appliance or by collaborating media appliances wherein synchronization is provided for the multiple streams in the form of meta data tags describing related scenes and or streams and or frames and or in the form of meta data describing time stamps relating different scenes and or streams. For example memory stores a data structure comprising one or more fields identifying one or more related video scenes and or streams and or frames and a field indicating the nature of the relation for example indicating that the video scenes and or streams and or frames represented different viewing angles of the same sensed object .

Media appliance then post produces the stored digital representation using controller and or audio or video plugin stored in memory .

The post produced digital representation is then stored in memory or in other storage medium such as optional on appliance hard disk or storage tape for storing data displayed on on appliance display unit and or sent for off appliance display and or exhibition e.g. for IMAX display according to IMAX 15 70 format or for Texas Instruments DLP Digital Light Processing format or for digital remastering according to IMAX s DMR Digital Remastering format or for satellite distribution e.g. to Digital Audio Broadcast DAB distribution scheme to DAB enabled devices such as PDAs cellular phones personal audio and or video players or other devices for presenting audio and or video . Optionally communication of media appliance with other devices and or services complies with ATSC DASE Advanced Television Systems Committee Digital TV Application Software Environment architecture incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment media appliance is a member of a distributed group of media appliances for example in a distributed network of media appliances and or in a peer to peer configuration of media appliances . A media appliance dynamically joins and or leaves a distributed group of media appliances in parallel and or serially with other media appliances . Alternatively media appliance initiates a distributed group of media appliances allowing for other media appliance s to dynamically join and or leave the group. In one embodiment the group of media appliances collaborates to cover an event such as a sporting event a public political event e.g. a rally a family event e.g. a wedding or other event. Media appliances tag sensed audio and or video data as described above e.g. with GPS information time stamps DRM meta data or other information previously described allowing reconstruction of covered event from the audio and or video data collected by distributed media appliances . Memory stores instructions and or data for initiating joining leaving and or querying the status of or information about such a distributed group of media appliances .

Foregoing described embodiments of the invention are provided as illustrations and descriptions. They are not intended to limit the invention to precise form described. In particular it is contemplated that functional implementation of invention described herein may be implemented equivalently in hardware software firmware and or other available functional components or building blocks and that networks may be wired wireless or a combination of wired and wireless. Other variations and embodiments are possible in light of above teachings and it is thus intended that the scope of invention not be limited by this Detailed Description but rather by Claims following.

