---

title: Method and system for conditional transactions
abstract: A method and system for conditional transactions are provided. The system provides one or more master accounts wherein each master account is tied to and controlled by one or more subordinated accounts. Each subordinated account may have a configurable/customizable set of permissions defined by the master account. The subordinated account holder would optionally require permission from the master account holder to complete a purchase. The master account holder would have a number of configurable/customizable permission rules to choose from for each subordinate account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07877297&OS=07877297&RS=07877297
owner: 2B Wireless
number: 07877297
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080519
---
This application claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 938 972 filed on May 18 2007 and entitled Method and System for Conditional Transactions and 61 015 186 filed on Dec. 19 2007 and entitled Method and System for Conditional Transactions both of which are incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims priority under 35 USC 120 and is continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 340 046 filed on Jan. 26 2006 entitled Method and System for Transmitting Real Time or Near Real Time Price Comparison and or Product Information to Potential Consumers and For Facilitating Optional Fulfillment and Optional Automated Real Time or Near Real Time Reverse Auctions Through Wireless or Wireline which in turn claims the benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 647 363 filed Jan. 26 2005 entitled A Method and System for Transmitting Real Time or Near Real Time Price Comparison and or Product Information to Potential Consumers and Also Facilitating Real Time or Near Real Time Reverse Auctions Purchase Payment and Fulfillment Alternatives and claims priority under 35 USC 120 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 601 135 filed on Nov. 17 2006 entitled Method and Apparatus for Encouraging Wireless Device Users to Send Marketing Messages Via a Wireless Communications Network all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

According to 2005 U.S. census estimates approximately 14 of the U.S. population more than 40 million people are between the ages of 10 and 19. Recent surveys suggest that of these less than 15 have access to their parents credit or debit cards. At the same time approximately 4 trillion is spent by U.S. consumers shopping. Of this amount some research suggests that more than 50 is paid for using either credit cards or debit cards. Adding stored value cards purchases would add considerably to the total volume of transactions made by credit debit or stored value cards hereafter referred to Electronic Payment Media . A majority of purchases are made using Electronic Payment Media. At the same time the majority of college students teenagers and pre teens do not have access to such cards. And so there has been an ongoing intensifying debate amongst parents whether or not kids should be given access to Electronic Payment Media. There are good reasons for this. Are kids emotionally ready for access to Electronic Payment Media Are they responsible enough to handle the financial implications that can dramatically impact their parents who are usually financially responsible for their purchases And how do parents control their purchases Regardless of debit credit or stored value once in the hands of kids kids can usually make purchases without parent approval subject only to the credit or balance limitations associated with their Electronic Payment Media. Additionally there are issues of lost cards credit exposure identity theft and the other financial risks that make providing access to such payment solutions for kids a difficult decision. It might also be noted many spouses and domestic partners do have access to Electronic Payment Media but lack the financial responsibility to control their spending against such Electronic Payment Media.

There is through embodiments described herein a method and system empowering children and other financially irresponsible individuals with an ability to shop on their own and eliminate the need for cash using Electronic Payment Media and real time electronic communications such as email and text messaging. A method and system are described to convey real time control to parents and guardians in advance of intended purchases by those under their guardianship. By way of embodiments a method and system is described to provide for the approval and or disapproval of aforementioned intended purchases. Such methods and systems described have heretofore not been available.

Embodiments are described herein for online e commerce websites and the use of conditional purchases using electronic payment media. The use of cell phones smart phones personal digital assistants and other handheld electronic devices collectively Wireless Devices the concurrent deployment of high speed wireless networks that connects such wireless devices and the growing emergence of mobile commerce applications can provide an end to end system that would allow minors dependents and other people who do not otherwise possess Electronic Payment Media hereafter referred to as Minor Dependent or Minor Dependents as the case may be to make Conditional Purchases in or near traditional brick and mortar environments using their Wireless Devices that is subject to final approval and real time control of their parents or guardian. An example of the workflow for creating a minor dependent sub account is shown in . Furthermore a purchase process for a minor dependent purchase using a sub account is shown in . A method and system are provided for the use of traditional credit cards or debit cards so that Minor Dependents can be issued conditional purchase cards associated with their parent s credit or debit cards such that they too can make purchases online or in traditional store environments subject to real time near real time or time delayed control of their parents. Because the vast majority of retail sales occur in stores and not online according to U.S. government estimates more than 95 of 2004 retail sales occurred in stores as opposed to online or through catalogues the potential market size is significant.

Thus it is desirable to provide a conditional purchase system and method and it is to this end that the present invention is directed.

The system and method are particularly applicable to an ecommerce system implementation as described below and it is in this context that the system and method will be described. It will be appreciated however that the system and method has greater utility since it can be implemented in other manners than those described below.

There is provided an end to end method and system that facilitates i the conditional purchase by Minor Dependents of any item they desire to purchase hereafter the Conditional Purchase ii the real time near real time and time delayed opportunity for parents or other legal guardians of such Minor Dependents who possess a credit debit or stored value card hereafter the Parent or Guardian to receive notification of an Conditional Purchase by a Minor Dependent and to review certain aspects of the Conditional Purchase including but not limited to the product name brand model number price and merchant iii the real time near real time and time delayed opportunity for a Parent or Guardian to approve or disapprove of such Conditional Purchase such that if the Conditional Purchase may be approved by the Parent or Guardian the Conditional Purchase gets processed as approved and payment effectuated against the Electronic Payment Medium of such Parent or Guardian. The process can optionally provide the Minor Dependent with real time near real time or time delayed notification of the Parent or Guardian s decision to either approve of disapprove of the Conditional Purchase.

Disapproval of the Conditional Purchase can be provided for by the method and system to store all such disapproved Conditional Purchases in a wish list so that the Conditional Purchases might be purchased at a later date. An example of the user interface for the wish list is shown in .

Minor Dependents are provided an ability to make Conditional Purchases in a context that is remote from immediate supervision of their Parent or Guardian while simultaneously providing to the Parent or Guardian the ability to monitor and control their Conditional Purchases.

An operatively configured system that desires to take advantage of the method and system described herein may be referred to as a Licensor . Licensors may include but are not limited to web based e Commerce sites such as Amazon.com and Walmart.com online payment processors such as Paypal Paypal Pro Google Checkout and Chase Paymentech cell phone company family plans and major issuers of credit cards such as American Express Visa and Mastercard as well as merchants.

Creation of Sub Accounts by a Master Account Holder. As used hereafter a Master Account is any standard user registration account that has been created by a Parent or Guardian with a Licensor. A Master Account Holder is anyone who has successfully created a Master Account. Typically Licensors such as Amazon.com require users to register with their site. Moreover many if not most user accounts require basic information including demographic information such as contact information which may comprise name address phone numbers cell phone numbers and email addresses security information such as usernames passwords and personal identification numbers PIN and billing information such as credit card number debit card number name on card billing address associated with the card and card security numbers. This information may be referred to as the Master Account Billing Information. An example of the user interface showing the Master Account billing information is shown in . As contemplated herein Master Accounts should include the Master Account Billing Information. If a Parent or Guardian visits a Licensor location or website and has not created a Master Account then he should do so. Having created a Master Account with a Licensor the Master Account Holder can be presented with an option to create one or more Sub Accounts associated with such Master Account. There is no limit to the number of Sub Accounts that may be created. A Sub Account may be linked to more than one Master Account. A Sub Account is a class of user account that is optionally created by the Master Account Holder. Sub Accounts may contain similar information as Master Accounts including but not limited to the basic demographic information contact information security information and optional shipping information. illustrate an example of a customer user interface for master accounts and sub accounts including a sub account creation screen . Sub Accounts may differ from Master Accounts. They may not have their own unique payment information or Electronic Payment Media. The relationship between a Master Account and Sub Account is that subject to the method and system described herein and further subject to the Master Account Holder s approval. Conditional Purchases made by Sub Account Holders are credited against the Master Account Billing Information associated with the Master Account Holder s Master Account

Visiting a Licensor website a Master Account Holder can be notified of this new feature and prompted via standard hyperlinks email banner advertisements or other medium to add Sub Accounts to his Master Account. An example of the Licensor web site with the Master Account set up page the subordinate account listing and the addition of a new subordinate page are shown in . Clicking on said link email or banner advertisement may bring up a web form similar in substance to an example user interface shown in . The form can be completed by the Master Account holder alone or together with a Child Dependent. Indeed the system can be altered such that Child Dependents can first fill out their form and then notification is sent to the Master Account Holder to either approve or disapprove of the account as desired. Other embodiments of the system might prompt people to create Sub Accounts and to submit the relevant Sub Account information via Wireless Devices standard voice calls interactive voice response systems and even regular mail or facsimile forms.

Making Conditional Purchases. Sub Account Holders can conditionally shop at the Licensor s website. As illustrated in a Sub Account Holder visits a Licensor website finds something he she may want to purchase adds the good s to an electronic shopping cart and proceeds to check out. Upon the initialization of the checkout process the Licensor site recognizes this purchase is a Conditional Purchase and this user is a Sub Account Holder. An identifier operatively capable of being indexed can be used to designate a Sub Account Holder and therefore a Conditional Purchase. As an example Sub Accounts might have unique fields numbers or other binary toggles that serve to identify an account as a Sub Account. Sub Accounts can be stored in unique Sub Account tables within the system database server so purchases made by a Sub Account Holder listed in the table may be recognized as Conditional Purchases made by a Sub Account Holder. Having identified the purchase as a Conditional Purchase and the account as a Sub Account the system retrieves and presents a distinct alternative checkout path the Sub Account Checkout Path as outlined in . The Sub Account Holder is prompted to confirm the good s quantity and ship to address. The Sub Account Holder may be prompted to finalize his conditional checkout. In the present exemplary embodiment the Sub Account Checkout Path may prompt the Sub Account Holder to enter the username and password associated with the Sub Account to confirm the intention to conditionally purchase the good s in question. Use of a two factor input such as a username and password provide added security and reduce the likelihood of account identifier redundancy and or confusion.

Further to the aforementioned embodiment successful confirmation of a Conditional Purchase by the Sub Account Holder may result in the Conditional Purchase being transferred and stored in a pending Conditional Purchase order queue as shown in . After confirmation and validation the Conditional Purchase requires Master Account approval. Having confirmed and validated a Conditional Purchase a database lookup may be performed to identify the Master Account associated with this Sub Account. The Conditional Purchase is approved or disapproved by the Master Account Holder. If approved the order may be completed using the information preserved in the queue. The queue can include a complete order information snapshot.

Using the corresponding Master Account the system transmits a notification and request for approval to the Master Account Holder hereafter the Approval Request . The Approval Request transmits to the Master Account Holder the relevant Conditional Purchase information including but not limited to the Sub Account and Sub Account Holder who requested the Conditional Purchase note more than one Sub Account can be associated with a Master Account the requested purchase item the merchant price the ship to address or any other purchase related information. The Approval Request prompts the Master Account Holder to either approve or disapprove the Conditional Purchase and in so doing authorize payment for the Conditional Purchase using the preferred Master Account Billing Information associated with said Master Account.

One exemplary method for conveying a Master Account affirmative approval might require the Master Account Holder to respond to the Approval Request by transmitting the PIN or security code associated with said Master Account back to the system such that the system can perform a database lookup to corroborate the PIN against the PIN of record contained in the Master Account Holder s Master Account. Other codes PINs or methods of approval can be utilized.

Having established a positive match against the record in the Master Account the system finalizes the transaction. The Master Account Holder s Billing Information is submitted via the Licensor s payment processor for approval. Approval or denial is authorized by such payment processor and the Conditional Purchase paid for. The Conditional Purchase now an actual purchase is processed pursuant to the instructions as contained in the original Conditional Purchase order. The system can transmit final disposition information to both the Master Account and Sub Account Holders notifying them of purchase details using communication methods comprising e commerce text messaging fax voice or interactive voice response protocols. An example of the subordinate account user interface at a licensor s web site is shown in .

An approval of a Conditional Purchase should require an affirmative response to the Approval Request. Master Account Holders can be prompted to pre program authorization and denial rules for any particular Sub Account as illustrated in . As an example the Sub Account of a teenager can be programmed to approve any Conditional Purchase less than 10 Master Account Holders might initially or by default deny the Conditional Purchase of an individual Sub Account Holder 

The system can optionally provide for the acceptance of proactive denials transmitted back to the system that unambiguously denies the approval of the Conditional Purchase. Alternatively the system can be programmed to time out any Approval Request such that if the Master Account Holder does not transmit an authorization response to the Approval Request within a prescribed period of time the Approval Request may be denied and the Conditional Purchase is not effectuated.

In circumstances where Approval Requests might be denied the system can easily provide archiving of denied Conditional Purchases in a wish list allowing a Master Account Holder to purchase the item s at a later more advantageous time. A Sub Account Holder might re submit the same conditional purchase for further consideration.

Inbound and outbound communications between the system Master Account Holders and Sub Account holders can be transmitted across any wireline or wireless networks and any media compatible with said networks including email text messaging interactive voice response systems and even standard voice or voice over internet protocol technologies can be effectively used as transmission media. The proliferation of cell phones personal digital assistants wireless computers and other wireless devices amongst Minor Dependents and Parent or Guardians can be used in or near traditional brick and mortar store environments. With the method and system described herein wireless device enabled Minor Dependents located in or near traditional brick and mortar based retailers retailers occupying actual physical retail space can use wireless devices to access real time price comparison and fulfillment services and may check out using a wireless system to execute their Conditional Purchase. As an example a Parent or Guardian might register a Master Account and one or more Sub Accounts with a mobile price comparison application. A Sub Account Holder might use his her Wireless Device to price compare an item they see in a store and then conditionally purchase the item through a wireless application. The Conditional Purchase checkout by the Sub Account Holder may prompt for the security code associated with a Sub Account. A two factor security algorithm one using two inputs to confirm a user s identity might correlate the Sub Account security code with the Sub Account Holder s mobile number of record. The system might then process the Conditional Purchase in a manner such that Approval Requests could be simultaneously transmitted to the Master Account Holder s email address and via a text message sent to the Master Account Holder s cell phone of record. Having received a text message Approval Request the Master Account Holder can approve or deny the Conditional Purchase by transmitting a text message response containing an appropriately formatted security code.

In another embodiment there exist a method and system for providing use of Conditional Purchase Cards. The vast majority of purchases are made in traditional brick or mortar retailer environments. Because many Minor Dependents spend their leisure time at shopping malls and plazas hosting retailers there is a high likelihood they will purchase goods requiring approval from their Parent or Guardian. Licensors such as the major credit card companies may promote existing or new applicants to add Sub Accounts to their existing credit card account providing Minor Dependents or other Sub Account holders the opportunity to make use of a Conditional Purchase Card. Sub Accounts can be added using paper electronic or even interactive voice response methodologies. A Conditional Purchase Card can be issued in the name and for the benefit of the Sub Account Holder. Examples of the credit card company screens for establishing accounts and subordinate accounts are shown in . The Sub Account Holder can visit a store of his or her choosing that accepts the brand of credit card associated with the Master Account and Sub Account . The clerk processes the Conditional Purchase. The system having recognized the card number as a Conditional Purchase Card would prompt the clerk to hold the package until final authorization is received. An Approval Request is transmitted to the Master Account Holder using a transmission media such as the web wireless or the like. The Master Account Holder transmits approval or disapproval of the Conditional Purchase back to the system for final processing. If approval is given the Master Account Billing Information is authorized and notice is sent back to the merchant and to the Sub Account Holder.

In one embodiment the system an example of which is shown in comprises a customer user interface one or more databases one or more servers and several modules which may comprise an accounts module an ordering module a fulfillment module a customer tracking module a security module that controls access to the master account and sub accounts an auditing module and an accounting module which may all be implemented in software a plurality of lines of computer code in one embodiment. The one or more system databases may comprise a registered users database which may include all Master Accounts and related Sub Accounts with all related data. The system may also include logic governing the actions between a Master Account and all related Sub Accounts such as approval thresholds. Such thresholds may be dynamic. Furthermore the approval may be category based meaning that the master account may require purchase approval for certain types of items. The accounts module handles the master and sub accounts registration of the master and sub accounts and the logic governing the actions between the master accounts and the sub accounts. The system may comprise an application programming interface API providing streamlined integration into existing electronic commerce applications. A system in accordance with the present invention should be highly flexible to accommodate the differing needs of Licensors Purchasers Master Account holders Sub Account holders and merchants. System components can be hardware independent allowing the interchangeability of the computer hardware on which the server software operates. The components comprising the system may reside in the same physical location such as on the same computer hardware or may be located in separate physical locations.

In the aforementioned embodiment the interface can be a menu driven interface for the input of descriptive information relating to the Metadata such as provided by a graphical user interface GUI . Data can be entered into fields provided on the interface wherein the fields are arranged to aid the user. Input can be gathered from a standard cell phone keyboard a modern keyboard layout such as a QWERTY compatible keyboard or using existing interactive voice recognition IVR technologies. Metadata can be transmitted via a standard phone call which may be answered by automated or manned systems such as a call center.

Further to the embodiment the potential purchaser can use a keypad on a communications device such as for example a Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF device to input the descriptive information about the product and or service when formulating the product or service comparison query. The potential purchaser can also use speech Interactive Voice Response IVR to input the descriptive information about the goods and or service. For example the potential purchaser can be provided with a speech Interactive Voice Response customer user interface that prompts the purchaser for descriptive information. The speech Interactive Voice Response customer user interface may be written in VoiceXML or SALT and use Microsoft Speech Server software residing on server hardware such as for example Intel architecture machines. In another example the purchaser can use the keypad on a mobile phone to compose a text message containing the descriptive information about the product and or service which can be sent as the query. Furthermore the descriptive information about a product or service can be entered into the query using Automatic Speech Recognition ASR such as that provided by Nuance Inc. In such a case a telephone caller can use his her own voice to speak the descriptive information about a product and or service to supplement or obviate the use of a keypad. Wireline as well as Mobile telephone callers can make full use of the system via Automatic Speech Recognition without having to press telephone keys.

In another embodiment the descriptive information about a product and or service can be entered into the customer user interface using a bar code scanner. A purchaser may wish to compare prices on a single product or service. Similarly the descriptive information about the product and or service can be entered into the query by receiving information contained in a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag which contains the descriptive information about the product and or service in an electronic form readable by a Radio Frequency Identification transceiver. The Radio Frequency Identification transceiver that receives the descriptive information about the product and or service can for example be embedded into the potential purchaser s communications device such as a cell phone .

In another embodiment the customer user interface may be located remotely from the potential purchaser. The purchaser may contact a call center and speak with an agent who inputs the descriptive information about a product or service into the customer user interface based on the potential purchaser s instructions. Also where the customer user interface is located remotely from the potential purchaser any of the above described methods for entering descriptive information about the product and or service electronic forms OCR ASR etc. can be used.

Transmissions to and from the system are carried via a communications link. The communications link can be without limitation any existing or future wireless or wireline Internet wireless or wireline data network wireless or wireline voice network or wireless or wireline data or voice technology that can be used to transmit the metadata as inputted by the consumers to the centralized servers and databases. Wireless data can be transmitted using existing cell phone companies as distribution intermediaries. The communications link may provide passing of the metadata from the user s cell phone through the carriers networks and related systems and into the servers and databases.

The one or more databases and one or more servers may be centralized or disseminated or a network and may be designed to manage the entire system including receiving the incoming metadata or query from the communications link processing the query using an appropriate price or product comparison search technology and handling reverse auction requests. Furthermore the databases may include all details for registered users Master Account and Sub Account holders as well as detailed transaction history and all related logic. The hardware may be configured to work with operating systems such as the Linux operating system and servers such as the Hewlett Packard Blade server. Server software such as Apache server software may be configured to implement the one or more databases managed by software such as mySQL database software. The LAMP Framework Linux Apache mySQL PHP Python PERL is preferably used for application development. Websites hosted on the one or more databases and one or more servers may run server software such as Microsoft IIS server software. The price or product comparison engine can comprise Internet based price or product comparison shopping engines such as PriceGrabber or ShopZilla or the price or product comparison engine may be a proprietary module. The system may include a method for transferring appropriately formatted metadata to such outsourced comparison engine and for receiving query results from the same outsourced comparison engine. The transfer of such appropriately formatted metadata to the outsourced comparison engine and the receipt of any price or product comparison data from the outsourced comparison engine may be effected via any existing or future data transmission network including an electronic data interface a virtual private network or the internet formulating and formatting a response to the query the price comparison data result or product comparison data result .

In response to the price comparison data result or product comparison data result the customer may decide to purchase the product in question from one of the retailer alternatives presented in the price comparison data result or product comparison data result as opposed to purchasing the product from the retail store in which the consumer may then be located at the time he she initiated the query . In such instances the system would provide for the real time or near real time ordering of such product through such alternative retailer or supplier. Any ordering and fulfillment requested by the consumer can be effectuated by prompting the consumer to input all the relevant purchasing information billing shipping etc. by accessing customer information pre stored on a customer account database or by automatically directing such consumer to a remote call center which may then act as an agent to input the same relevant purchasing information on his her behalf. Where a call center is used the system can automatically transmit the metadata and vendor or supplier of choice as selected by the consumer to such call center in order to automate and streamline the order process.

The customer may decide not to purchase a product or service in response to a price or product comparison query. In such a case the system can give the customer the opportunity to receive information contained within the price or product comparison result via SMS and or e mail preferably the top three merchants. The system can prompt the customer to input an e mail address or can access a customer account database to determine whether the customer has stored an e mail address. The system can then e mail the price or product comparison information to the customer s e mail address

The price or product comparison data result can include the amount of money the customer has saved through conducting a price or product comparison query. The customer can be prompted to donate some or all of the amount saved to one or more of the customer s favorite charities. The system allows the customer to identify and store the one or more favorite charities on a customer account database. When the customer donates an amount of savings to a charity the system transmits the information necessary to effect the donation such as a credit card number to the charity and also transmits a donation confirmation to the customer s communications device. The system can include one or more product catalog database s which store information relating to products and or services and are searched in response to a customer query. The product catalog database s may reside along with other components of the centralized databases and servers or be located remote from them. Where the product catalog database resides within the centralized databases and servers the information relating to products and or services can be populated and or updated via an automatic process wherein the system accesses merchant databases or websites and downloads information from them. Populating or updating the product catalog database s is done preferably through an automatic ftp or http datafeed from the merchant databases and or through a web crawler that searches merchant databases or websites on a predetermined list for product and or service information. The result is a near real time product catalog database. Furthermore this product catalog may be improved via data mapping brand recovery model recovery and brand normalization. The system can also obtain information relating to products and or services directly from merchant databases in response to a customer query.

As stated above the system can include a customer account database that stores information relating to customers using the system. Users can register information in advance preferably via a registration process at a predefined website into the customer account database so that the purchasing process can be further streamlined. Information stored on the customer account database can include for example names nicknames mailing addresses telephone numbers e mail addresses websites credit card information shipping information billing information favorite charities and any other customer information desired. The system will store such information so that repeat users can quickly effectuate future purchases. This information can be accessed and or protected by a personal identification number PIN security code or other personal identifier established at the time of registration.

The system can include a transaction database which stores information relating to all transactions customers have carried out using the system. Information stored on the transaction database can include the product and or service that was the subject of a price or product and or service comparison or reverse auction the date and time of each price or product and or service comparison carried out the date and time of each reverse auction carried out the result of each price or product and or service comparison and reverse auction the amount saved in each transaction the amount donated from the savings in a transaction if any and any other information regarding any transaction carried out by users of the system.

Reliability. Because of the nature and real time sensitivity of e commerce transactions redundancy can be utilized to accommodate fault tolerance including suspend and resume processes.

Security. All stored and transmitted data can be tracked and encrypted. Multiple layers of security can be further utilized to assure maximum security including authentication authorization and access control such as those offered by Computer Associates or RSA.

The conditional purchase system and method may be used to convert traditional credit cards debit cards stored value cards or merchant credit cards into conditional purchase cards using the system.

When a master account approves an item purchase by a sub account the conditional purchase system and method may require the master account holder to respond to the approval request by transmitting a code such as a personal identification number or security code etc. associated with the master account back to the system such that the system can perform a database lookup to corroborate the code against the code of record contained in the master account holder s master account.

The communications between the master account holder the sub account holders and the conditional purchase system may be transmitted across any wireline or wireless networks and any media compatible with said networks including email text messaging interactive voice response systems and even standard voice or voice over internet protocol technologies can be effectively used as transmission media.

When the sub account is a minor dependent the minor dependents are provided an ability to make conditional purchases in a context that is remote from immediate supervision of their Parent or Guardian while simultaneously providing to the Parent or Guardian the ability to monitor and control their Conditional Purchases.

A licensor s website may notify a master account holder to add sub accounts. The notification can be provided by standard hyperlinks email banner advertisements or other medium.

The conditional purchase system may be programmed to time out any approval request such that if the master account holder does not transmit an authorization response to the approval request within a prescribed period of time the approval request may be denied and the conditional purchase is not effectuated. The system may also be used to provide conditional purchase cards.

While the foregoing has been with reference to a particular embodiment of the invention it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes in this embodiment may be made without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined by the appended claims.

