---

title: Method and apparatus to combine power and control signals in a mobile computing device
abstract: A mobile computing device is described that includes multiple device components, a power supply and a power line connected to each device component. The power supply is operative to provide power signals to the device components over the power lines. The mobile computing device also includes a processor operative to generate a control signal for one or more device components. A power line communications control module is connected to the power supply and the processor, the power line communications control module is operative to receive a power signal and a control signal for a device component, combine the power signal and control data from the control signal to form a power data signal, and send the power data signal to the device component over a corresponding power line. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051309&OS=08051309&RS=08051309
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08051309
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide a wide array of processing capabilities such as digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth. In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing such an array of functionality in a single device involves a multitude of control and power lines. As mobile computing devices continue to decrease in size and the amount of power required to provide the ever increasing array of capabilities continues to increase conservation of space within mobile computing devices becomes an important consideration. As a result it is desirable to consolidate signals and signal lines when possible. For example it may be advantageous to combine power signals and control data on power lines. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve the management of signals within a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to signal control techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to combining power signals with control data from control signals over power lines to power and control device components.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include multiple device components. Device components may include any component connected to or in communication with a mobile computing device. Examples of device components include but are not limited to keypads keyboards thumbboards displays motors wireless radios I O interfaces and A V devices such as cameras speakers and microphones. A mobile computing device may also include a power supply having a power line connected to each device component. In some embodiments the power supply may be operative to provide power signals to the device components over the power lines.

A mobile computing device may further comprise a processor operative to generate a control signal for one or more of the device components. The processor may be any suitable type of general purpose or host processor. In various embodiments a mobile computing device may include a power line communications control module to connect to the power supply and the processor. The power line communications control module may be operative to receive a power signal from the power supply and a control signal from the processor both signals intended for a device component. In some embodiments the power line communications control module may combine the power signal and control data from the control signal to form a power data signal that is sent to the device component over a corresponding power line. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Combining power signals and control data over power lines may provide several advantages. For example reducing the number of control lines needed in a mobile computing device may save valuable space within the device. Furthermore reducing the number of lines within a mobile computing device or on a specific printed circuit board PCB may reduce the interference within the device. Additionally consolidating signals may reduce the power consumption of the system thereby increasing battery life for a battery powered mobile computing device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements nodes or modules in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements nodes or modules in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. It should also be understood that the use of the term control to refer to data and or signals throughout the application can refer to data flowing in any direction as control and or status data or signals. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the mobile computing device . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

Power supply may comprise any power source arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may comprise an alternating current power line and the power signal may comprise an alternating current signal. For example the power supply may comprise an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply. In some embodiments the power supply may comprise a battery and the power signal may comprise a direct current signal. The battery may comprise a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power for example.

In various embodiments the power lines may comprise any conductive material suitable for transferring an electric current. The power lines may comprise any system that conducts energy through any means or medium for example. In some embodiments the power lines consist of copper material for example. The power lines may comprise conductive pathways or traces etched from copper sheets laminated onto a non conductive substrate such as pathways or traces on a PCB for example. In some embodiments the power lines may include shielding or any other coating suitable for reducing or eliminating interference on the power line or caused by the power line . The power lines connect the power supply with each of the multiple device components through to provide power signals to the device components through . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Device components through may comprise n number of components forming part of mobile computing device . For example device components through may comprise keypads keyboards thumbboards LEDs displays touchscreen displays vibrate motors wireless radios I O interfaces or A V devices such as speakers or microphones. While a limited number and type of device components through are shown by way of example it should be understood that any number or type of device components may be present in the mobile computing device and still fall within the described embodiments.

The power line communications control module may comprise a hardware or software module connected to the power supply the processor and the device components through . In some embodiments power line communications control module may be implemented as a software module stored in the form of executable program instructions code or data on memory to be executed by a processor such as processor for example. The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to perform the signal consolidation operations for the mobile computing device . It should be appreciated that the power line communications control module may be stored and executed by any memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further it should be appreciated that the operations for the power line communications control module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the power line communications control module is operative to receive a power signal from the power supply and a control signal from the processor or from another power line communications control module the power signal and the control signal intended for at least one of device components through . In various embodiments control and power signals may also be sent from power line communications module to any of processor or device components through . In some embodiments the power line communication control module is configured to combine the power signal and control data from the control signal to form a power data signal and send the power data signal to the device component through over a corresponding power line or extract demodulate control data from a received power data signal. In various embodiments the power line communications control module may be configured as part of or incorporated with one or more of the multiple device components through 

The control data may comprise for example data that activates directs operates verifies or otherwise manipulates one of device components through . For example a control signal generated by processor and intended for a thumbboard device component may contain control data instructing the thumbboard to illuminate based on a predefined set of criteria. A control signal intended for a camera device for example may contain control data from a button device component instructing the camera to capture an image. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The power line communications control module may by operative to form the resulting power data signal with a first signal component representing the power signal and a second signal component representing the control data from the control signal. For example the power data signal may consist of two separate signal components having different frequencies. In some embodiments the first signal component may a lower frequency than the second signal component. For example the power data signal may be transmitted over the power lines using a lower frequency that the control data from the control signal. In other embodiments the first signal component may have a higher frequency than the second signal component. For example the control data from the control signal may be transmitted using a lower frequency than the power data signal. While specific embodiments may be generally directed to frequency modulation it should be understand that any suitable modulation technique could be used and still fall within the described embodiments such as pulse amplitude modulation for example. Other embodiments are describe and claimed.

The power line communications control module may be configured to receive as inputs a control signal and a power signal and or a combined power data signal . The control signal may be a control signal from a processor such as processor of for example. In various embodiments the control signal may also be received from another device component. The control signal may contain control data intended for a device component such as any of device components through . The power signal may be a power signal from a power supply such as power supply of for example. Power data signal may comprise a combination of control data from control signal and power signal .

Modulation Demodulation module may be operative to modulate the power signal with the control data from the control signal to form the power data signal if the control signal and the power signal are received separately. Modulation demodulation module may also be configured to demodulate a power signal and control data from a control signal if a power data signal is received as an input in various embodiments.

Modulation demodulation module may allow for multiple information signals such as power signal and the control data from control signal to be transferred simultaneously over the same shared physical medium. The control data from control signal and the power signal may be communicated using different frequencies. For example modulation module may modulate the control data from control signal on top of or with a higher frequency that the power signal . While specific embodiments may be generally directed to frequency modulation it should be understand that any suitable modulation technique could be used and still fall within the described embodiments such as pulse amplitude modulation for example. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the control data from control signal may be serialized into a single stream for modulation with power signal . For example serializer de serializer may serialize control data from control signal into a single stream for modulation by modulation demodulation module . Serializer de serializer may comprise any suitable serializer de serializer capable of serializing and or de serializing a data stream. The modulated power data signal may be communicated over the power lines to other devices such as device components through of .

The power data signal may be transmitted using transceiver module . Transceiver module may comprise a combination receiver and transmitter capable of communicating a data stream to other components within mobile computing device and receiving a data stream from other component within mobile computing device for example.

In various embodiments any of device components through that includes a power line communications control module may be capable of receiving a modulated power data signal and demodulating the signal using modulation demodulation module to extract the control data intended for that device component. Each device component may further comprise a filter module capable of filtering out and identifying control data intended for that device component. Filter module may comprise any type of filter such as a low pass high pass band pass or any other type of filter suitable for isolating control data intended for a device component. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments the mechanism by which each device puts its control data onto the power lines may use various industry standard techniques. For example carrier sense multiple access collision detection and avoidance and orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation may all be used and still fall within the described embodiments. In some embodiments the control data to be serialized or modulated with the power signal may have a distinct format. For example the serialized control data may consist of a preamble a device address control data and an error check sequence. While a limited number of format options are shown by way of example it should be understood that the serialized or modulated data may take any form and still fall within the described embodiments.

Power coupling module may be coupled to the power lines and may be operative to receive the power signal from the power supply or a power data signal from another device component and send the power data signal to the device components through over the power lines . Power coupling module may comprise any coupler capable of dividing splitting directing or allocating power in mobile computing device . In various embodiments power coupling module receives power from a power supply such as power supply and allocates the necessary amount of power to a device component such as any of device components through according to the needs of the particular device component. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Component selector module optional may be operative to select the power line connected to the device component through for use in communicating the power data signal . For example each device component through may be connected to the power line communications control module via a separate power line . Component selector module may be configured to receive filtered control data from filter module and direct the control data to the appropriate intended device component through through its associated power line . In this manner component selector module may assist in preventing control data from being communicated to unintended device components. As illustrated component selector module is optional. For example component selector module may not be necessary in certain embodiments in which each device component includes a power line communications control module to send receive modulate demodulate serialize de serialize and filter control and power data signals.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the power data signal is formed with a first signal component representing the power signal and a second signal component representing the control data from the control signal. In some embodiments the first and second signal components comprise different frequencies. For example the first signal component may have a lower frequency than the second signal component or the first signal component may have a higher frequency than the second signal component.

In various embodiments the power signal and the control data from the control signal are modulated to form the power data signal. For example modulation module of power line communications control module may modulate control data from control signal with power signal to form power data signal . In some embodiments more than one control or data signal may be modulated on a single power line. For example two or more control signals may be modulated with a power signal to form a power data signal. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The power lines may be coupled to the device components in various embodiments. For example power coupling module of power line communications control module may couple power signal from power supply to each of device components through through power lines .

In one embodiment the power line connected to the device component for use in communicating the power data signal may be selected. For example component selector module of power line communications control module may select a power line connected to one of device components through based on the intended recipient device for certain control data from control signal . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display . The keypad may also comprise a thumbboard.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11a 802.11n etc. WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a power line communications control module . The power line communications control module may the same or similar to the power line communications control module described with reference to or the power line communications control module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

