---

title: Systems for measuring backscattered light using rotating mirror
abstract: A system for measuring backscattered light from a sample is given. Light is output from a light source towards a rotating mirror, and then reflected by the rotating mirror towards the sample. The sample reflects backscattered light back towards the rotating mirror, which, having moved during the time it took for the light to propagate from the mirror to the sample and back, reflects the backscattered light to a detector located at a physical separation from the light source. The detected backscattered light may be analyzed to determine various properties of the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07920262&OS=07920262&RS=07920262
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07920262
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080917
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Light scattering can provide a non destructive means of obtaining information about an object from a distance. As use herein the term light refers to electromagnetic radiation over the entire electromagnetic spectrum including but not limited to visible light ultraviolet light infrared light and near infrared light. The object can be a surface like that of the Earth observed from space or of a computer wafer in a clean room environment. The object can also be a cloud consisting of smoke ice crystals pollutants biological agents or any number of other things about which information is desired. In many scattering configurations the light source and detector are in close proximity. For instance in monitoring the atmosphere for a cloud of particles using Light Detection and Ranging LIDAR a laser and a detector located on the same apparatus are used. This is primarily for convenience as it requires only one physical station to set up for instrumentation. In addition for observations from a distance it makes alignment much simpler. When the source and the detector are each separate instruments they cannot simultaneously detect and receive light at the same location as there is always some physical separation between them therefore the light that scatters from the object of interest cannot be measured by the detector in the exact backscatter direction which is located 180 degrees from forward scatter. It is measured at some finite angle the backscatter angle measured from the exact backscatter direction. This finite angular extent can have implications in the interpretation of the resulting data.

Various physical phenomena occur when light traveling from a source to an object is scattered back in the direction of the source i.e. in the backscatter region. In sensing terrain for instance no shadows are seen in the exact backscatter direction but as increases shadows will become visible that will reduce the signal on the detector. This is sometimes referred to as the shadowing effect. This shadowing contains information on the morphology and polydispersity of the particles in the sample. In addition multiple scattering of rays by points on the object causes the rays to interfere with each other. In the backscatter region rays that travel reciprocal paths interfere constructively resulting in an increase in signal intensity on the detector. This is sometimes referred to as the coherent backscattering effect or backscattering surge. Accompanying the coherent backscattering effect is the polarization opposition effect light has zero polarization in the exact backscatter region but has a negative polarization state at angles slightly off the exact backscatter direction The amount of signal intensity increase in the backscatter region and the rate of fall off of the polarization are determined by the morphological and chemical properties of the object hence a measurement of these light scattering properties contains important information about the object.

The properties of the absolute intensity and rate of change of intensity and polarization state in the backscatter region are of interest for characterizing objects. Most remote measuring techniques like LIDAR do not measure light in the exact backscatter direction 0 so it is difficult to interpret the information that is retrieved. In addition it is desirable to know the scattering properties as a function of backscatter angle i.e. to have measurements at multiple angles across the backscatter region. One way of decreasing the angle is to make the distance to the object extremely large or to reduce the distance between the source and the detector however still remains finite.

Systems for measuring backscattered light are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of a system comprises the following a light source operative to output light a mirror operative to rotate with a rotational frequency such that the light from the light source is reflected by the mirror toward the sample and backscattered light corresponding to the light from the light source and scattered from the sample is reflected by the mirror and a detector operative to receive the backscattered light reflected from the mirror.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Systems for measuring backscattered light are provided and several exemplary embodiments will be discussed in detail. In this regard embodiments may be used for measuring the spatial relationship between objects at a distance. Additionally or alternatively some embodiments may be used to provide information about the size distribution and or chemical properties of particles in a sample.

The detector may obtain measurements for a range of values of backscatter angle . In one embodiment this is achieved by varying the rotational speed f of the mirror . As the rotational speed of the mirror varies the amount of rotation of the mirror that occurs while the light propagates from the mirror to the sample and back to the mirror also varies resulting in backscattered light with varying values of being reflected to the detector. The backscattering angle at a detector located at distance dfrom the source is given by d 8 fdd c d d where f is the rotational frequency of the mirror dis the distance between mirror and sample c is the speed of light and dis the distance between detector and mirror .

In another embodiment shown in multiple detectors B B and B are positioned in multiple locations in the backscatter region these locations correspond to different values of . Alternatively a single detector may be moved to various locations across the backscatter region during operation as shown by locations B B and B in . At each location backscattered light is measured for a different value of or alternatively different ranges of the sample for a given . is not limiting the number of detectors and detector locations may vary depending on the application. As above the backscattering angle at any detector located at distance dfrom the source is given by d 8 fdd c d d where f is the rotational frequency of the mirror dis the distance between mirror and sample c is the speed of light and dis the distance between detector and mirror .

In another embodiment a pulsed laser with a frequency corresponding to the rotational frequency f of the mirror is used as the source . The phase lag of the pulsed laser relative to rotational frequency f may be adjusted to scan across the sample by timing the laser to reflect from the mirror at various points in the mirror s rotation thereby illuminating different points on the sample. The detector may be a charge coupled device CCD detector which measures angular extent in addition to exact backscattering. Also the mirror may be of sufficiently high quality so as not to corrupt the state of the reflected light significantly. By way of example a mirror exhibiting roughness 

Some embodiments may be used for remote sensing for example LIDAR. By way of example in remote sensing mode the sample may be located a large distance dfrom the mirror. Because of the large distance the distance dbetween the source and the rotating mirror may be made small and it is possible to physically locate the source detector and mirror in one structure. In such an embodiment the angle is greatly reduced due to the relatively small size of the mirror in relation to the distance between the sample and mirror . Other embodiments may be used for sample characterization the sample in these embodiments is located a short distance dfrom the mirror. Because of the small d the distance dbetween the mirror and the source must be relatively large. In this case the angle can be made large. In this embodiment the device may comprise two physical apparatuses. The source and detection components may be located together in one structure and the rotating mirror may be contained in a separate structure as it should be a relatively large distance from the source and detection components.

The light emitted from the source may be treated to reduce stray signals and ensure that angular divergence is reduced. shows an embodiment of a system for measuring backscattered light using optics for this purpose. As shown in the light emitted from source is collimated by a spatial filter assembly resulting in all the rays being incident on the sample. This reduces the divergence of the light which tends to reduce the error in the measured backscatter angle. A diaphragm or field stop adjusts the size of the illuminated area of the sample. Polarization filters can be inserted at the source to control polarization characteristics of the light from the source. An optical modulator is used to adjust the polarization state and also to modulate the light from the source to reduce noise. Polarizers or quarter wave plates and can be placed in front of the source and the sample respectively adjust the polarization state of the light. A lock in amplifier can be used to amplify the source signal the phase of the lock in amplifier may be adjusted in conjunction with the rotation frequency f of the mirror to scan across the sample and the backscatter region. Depending on the information sought regarding sample various embodiments may comprise any combination of the forgoing optics to treat the light from the source .

Further embodiments have optics inserted at detector to increase the signal to noise ratio or to detect light at particular polarization states. Again referring to a diaphragm and lens reduce stray light. The lens is preferably placed so that its focal point is on the detector plane so that parallel rays of light are detected i.e. light rays that are scattered in the same direction. A spatial filter assembly may be used in place of the diaphragm and lens . A polarizer may be included to select the polarization state of the detected light allowing measurement of the intensity of a particular polarization state. A lock in amplifier may also be included to reduce the noise from external light sources the lock in amplifier may be modulated with the frequency f of the rotating mirror with the pulse frequency of the source laser or with an optical modulator placed at the source to scan across the sample. Apertures may also be inserted at the detector to limit the field of view of the detector . Depending on the information sought regarding sample various embodiments may comprise any combination of the forgoing optics to treat the light received at the detector .

Preferably the light used in the present invention includes visible light ultraviolet light or infrared light More preferably the light is or includes visible light or infrared light. Most preferably the light is or includes visible light or near infrared light.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the accompanying claims.

