---

title: Optimizing desktop sharing for wireless clients during networked collaboration
abstract: Techniques for optimizing desktop sharing for wireless clients during web collaboration are presented. In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method comprises determining that a presenter of a collaborative online meeting is using a desktop sharing session, determining that one or more attendees participating in the collaborative online meeting are using devices with limited display capabilities, determining a particular window displayed on the desktop of the presenter of the desktop sharing session, and causing transmission of only data from the particular window displayed on the desktop of the presenter to the one or more devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924862&OS=08924862&RS=08924862
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08924862
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080905
---
The present disclosure generally relates online meetings and collaboration. The disclosure relates more specifically to techniques for sharing a presenter s desktop during a web collaboration session

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Online conferences held over networks such as the Internet and using World Wide Web sites are becoming more popular. Recent advances in the web conference technology allow the attendees to participate in the same live meeting from offices all over the world.

Other advantage of web conferences is that the attendees may join the conference via a variety of computers. Attendees may join the web conference from computers physically connected to a network as well as from various wireless devices which communicate with the presenter s computer over a wireless network or internetworks.

However as much as the hardware heterogeneity is advantageous in web conferencing the fact that the devices have different display capabilities poses a myriad of problems. These problems may be experienced as much by the presenters as by the attendees. For example if a presenter conducts a presentation from a computer equipped with a large high resolution screen the conference attendees who joined the conference via devices having very limited display capabilities may be unable to appreciate the images transmitted by the presenter. For example if a presenter transmits an image a PowerPoint presentation page or a Word page etc. that is rich in content the conference attendees who joined the conference via devices with limited display capabilities may simply be unable to see those images or pages with a sufficient clarity. Subsequently the details that the presenter wished to convey to the attendees may be lost and the effectiveness of the presentation itself may be diminished.

The presenter could manually simplify or tailor a presentation comprising images pages of a PowerPoint presentation etc. to be clearly seen on small resolution screens but this approach is inefficient and may result in reduced effectiveness because details have to be eliminated.

Optimizing desktop sharing for wireless clients during web collaboration is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method comprises determining that a presenter of a collaborative online meeting is using a desktop sharing session determining that one or more attendees participating in the collaborative online meeting are using devices with limited display capabilities determining a particular window displayed on the desktop of the presenter of the desktop sharing session and causing transmission of only data from the particular window displayed on the desktop of the presenter to the one or more devices.

In one embodiment the particular window is a top most window displayed on the desktop of the presenter. In an embodiment a top most window is logically or graphically positioned above other windows or GUI elements which are simultaneously displayed on the screen. A window displayed on the screen display may become the top most window if it is selected using a pointing device or other window selection method. Alternatively a window may become the top most window if it is launched by a currently active application a computer program an applet a widget etc.

In one embodiment the particular window is an active window displayed on the desktop of the presenter. An active window as opposed to other windows that are inactive may be a window that is currently selected by a pointing device or other window selection methods. Alternatively an active window is a window that actively collects user s input etc.

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises determining which application program among a plurality of application programs is associated with the particular window.

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises determining that a word processing application program is associated with the particular window and causing one or more devices to receive only text characters of a word processing document that is displayed in the particular window.

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises generating a graphical image bitmap of only the particular window. In an embodiment the method further comprises transforming the data from the particular window into a structured document format prior to causing the one or more devices to receive the data. In an embodiment the structured document format is hypertext markup language HTML .

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises generating a graphical image bitmap of only the particular window and excluding one or more toolbars icons and graphical widgets of the particular window.

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises receiving one or more messages from a server to which the attendees and the presenter are coupled.

In an embodiment the computer implemented method further comprises calling an application programming interface function of an operating system of a computer of the presenter.

In an embodiment the invention encompasses a computer readable storage medium and apparatus that are configured with instructions or other means to perform or implement the foregoing steps.

When users share desktop sharing functions the conventional web conference sharing applications capture the contents of the whole display of the presenter s desktop and transfer the entire bitmapped image to other attendees participating in the web conference. In contrast presently disclosed web conference sharing functions identify a particular window displayed on the presenter s screen and display just that window on screens of other attendees participating in the web conference. For example the disclosed conference sharing functions may identify the particular window as the top most window displayed on the presenter s screen and display just the top most window on screens of the attendees. According to another example the disclosed conference sharing functions may identify the particular window as a currently active window displayed on the presenter s screen and display just that window on screens of the attendees. In some implementations the currently active window displayed on the presenter s screen may be also the top most window.

The presenter s computer is communicatively coupled to an online meeting server . The presenter s computer may comprise for example a workstation physically connected to the online meeting server a wired and wireless personal computer PC etc.

The presenter s computer may comprise a general purpose computer having one or more central processor units CPUs one or more display devices screens monitors etc. one or more memory units one or more disk drives one or more data buses one or more interfaces graphical interfaces GUIs data input devices and output devices.

A presenter working from the presenter s computer may launch on the presenter s computer one or more software applications. In response the presenter s computer displays graphical images and representations associated with those applications on the screen of the presenter s computer as further described herein in relation to .

Any software application useful in a meeting or collaboration may be run on the presenter s computer including but not limited to a presentation application a word processing document a browser a spreadsheet a project management application etc.

In a web meeting the presenter may want to share the display generated on the presenter s computer with other attendees . A further description of how the presenter may share the display with attendees is provided herein in relation to and .

The communication link between the presenter s computer and the online meeting server may be a wired link a wireless link or a combination. For example the presenter s computer may be physically connected to the online meeting server communicate with the online meeting server wirelessly or communicate with the online meeting server via a network or networks comprising one or more Local Area Networks LANs wireless networks Wide Area Networks WANs internetworks etc.

The communication link between the presenter s computer and the online meeting server may use any of several data communication protocols including but not limited to Internet Protocol IP Transmission Control Protocol TCP etc. In one embodiment the communication link between the presenter s computer and the online meeting server may use secure sockets layer SSL protocol.

In an embodiment online meeting server hosts applications to facilitate collaborative or shared communications between the presenter s computer and the attendees . For example online meeting server may run applications to allow scheduling a web meeting determine which presenter s computer is responsible for conducting the web conference determine which attendees can join and participate in the web meeting etc. For purposes of clarity the functional description herein assumes that scheduling the web meeting starting the meeting and joining the meeting have been accomplished so that a web conference or a web meeting has been initiated.

Other tasks performed by the online meeting server may include maintaining and controlling secure data exchange during the web meeting closing of the web meeting and maintaining communications between the presenter s computer and the devices used by the attendees . The online meeting server may be implemented using a general purpose computer having one or more central processing units CPUs memory units disk drives data buses interfaces graphical interfaces GUIs etc.

Upon starting a user session at the presenter s computer the presenter s computer displays one or more images as part of a presenter s desktop . Each of the one or more images is controlled by a desktop computer environment comprising a desktop manager or window manager. The desktop comprises various graphical icons windows buttons toolbars folders wallpapers widgets and other graphical elements that cooperate to provide a graphical user interface between the presenter and the presenter s computer . Desktop may be generated using a personal computer operating system such as Microsoft Windows Apple MAC OS X the Unix X Window system and the Java Desktop System of Sun Microsystems.

In an embodiment when a presenter starts or joins the web meeting the presenter s desktop may comprise images that overlap or at least partially obscure other images. For example the presenter s desktop may display images associated with a presenter s application and comprising windows . Typically the presenter provides user input to or views output from one window at a time. For example the presenter may select one window which is redisplayed as a particular window among a visual hierarchy of windows that include one or more underlying windows . The particular window may be the top most window displayed on the presenter s screen a currently active window displayed on the presenter s screen the top most window that also is the active window displayed on the presenter s screen etc.

Although presenter s desktop may comprise a plurality of applications and windows during the web meeting the presenter might want to focus on just one particular GUI element such as one window for any of several reasons. For example sending more than one window to all meeting attendees might exceed the bandwidth of the communication channels established between the presenter and the attendees or displaying more than one window on attendees screens might require scaling down each of the windows to a point where the images displayed on attendees devices are too small to be clearly seen.

Further the presenter might want to focus the attention of the attendees on only one window among a plurality of windows on the presenter s desktop . For example the presenter may have a number of windows opened on the presenter s desktop and without launching any new application the presenter might want to select one of the already displayed windows and make that window the particular window . Additionally or alternatively the presenter may have multiple windows open on the presenter s desktop and might want to select the window that pertains to a particular issue to be discussed by the presenter and make that window the particular window . In an embodiment when the presenter selects the desirable window from a number of the windows displayed on the presenter s desktop the desirable window pops up on the top of the presenter s desktop and is displayed as a top window . In other embodiment when the presenter selects the desirable window from a number of the windows displayed on the presenter s desktop the desirable window becomes an active or the top most window displayed on the presenter s screen.

In this context the particular window is a window that is currently selected among all other windows. Under most operating systems that provide a GUI the currently selected window also is not obscured by any other simultaneously displayed windows or other GUI elements on the presenter s desktop . For example if a desirable window was previously partially obscured by a window once the presenter selects the desirable window the desirable window may become the top window as illustrated in and the window becomes partially obscured by the particular window .

Any of several methods may be used for selecting graphical elements on the presenter s desktop . For example a window may be selected by moving a cursor to that window and clicking a button of a mouse connected to the presenter s computer to execute a select function. Alternatively the presenter may select a window by moving a cursor to that window and pressing an enter key on the keyboard connected to the presenter s computer to execute a select function implement on the keyboard.

In an embodiment regardless of the number of windows and other graphical elements that are displayed on the presenter s desktop during a web conference only the selected particular window is sent to the displays on the attendees computers and only the particular window appears in attendees windows . Window other windows and other graphical elements of the presenter s application or presenter s desktop are not sent to attendees.

In one embodiment graphical information for the presenter s desktop in its entirety is sent to the online meeting server . Upon receiving the graphical representation of the presenter s desktop the online meeting server identifies the particular window and sends a graphical representation of only the particular window to the attendee s window .

In an embodiment web conference client logic hosted at the presenter s computer determines which window in the presenter s desktop is currently selected as the particular window . In an embodiment the web conference client logic issues a programmatic call to operating system or to a window manager associated with the operating system and requests an identification of the particular window . In response the operating system returns in a form that depends on the particular operating system information sufficient to permit the web conference client logic to identify the particular window and the contents of the window. The web conference client logic then sends information only for the particular window to the online meeting server . The online meeting server duplicates the received particular window information and delivers the particular window information to the attendee s window for each of the attendees of a web meeting.

In one embodiment at least one of the devices is incompatible with the presenter s computer . For example one of the devices may use a different operating system or window environment than the presenter s computer or the devices may use different applications that are not compatible with a format of data used in the presenter s particular window . If the devices are incompatible with the presenter s computer then data shown in the presenter s particular window may be displayed in a completely different form on the devices or may contain errors or may be incapable of display.

In an embodiment device incompatibility issues are addressed using particular window data converter module which can perform data format transformation image size modification and other functions. For example if the presenter s particular window comprises an image in a Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format but the device with limited display capabilities can only display images in a Tagged Image File Format TIFF then the particular window data converter receives as input the JPEG image from the presenter s particular window converts it to an image expressed in the TIFF format and sends the TIFF image to the device with limited display capabilities

As another example the presenter s particular window comprises a page of a document in a WordPerfect format but the device with limited display capabilities can only display pages of documents in a Word format. In such a case the particular window data converter takes as an input the page displayed in the presenter s particular window converts it from the WordPerfect format to the Word format and sends an output page expressed in the Word format to the device with limited display capabilities

In a further example the presenter s particular window comprises a page of a document in a Word format but the device with limited display capabilities can only display pages of documents in a text rich format. In such a case the particular window data converter takes as an input the page displayed in the presenter s particular window converts it from the Word format to the text rich format and sends the output page expressed in the text rich format to the device with limited display capabilities

The particular window data converter also may convert graphic image sizes to achieve compatibility. For example the presenter s particular window may comprise an image of 800 1200 pixels but the device with limited display capabilities may be capable of displaying only small images of up to 300 400 pixels. In such a case the particular window data converter may down convert a bitmap image of the particular window into a converted image that is displayable on device . Similarly the presenter s particular window may display a word processing document in which characters occupy cells that are 24 48 pixels but direct down conversion of such cells would yield characters that are too small to read on the device . In such a case the particular window data converter may convert the text characters into a data representation format or size that is readable on the device

In an embodiment the content of the presenter s particular window is transformed into and represented as an HTML structure and that structure is sent to the attendees instead of sending them a bitmap of the presenter s particular window . Transforming the presenter s particular window into HTML format enables sending the HTML structure over a network using existing protocols such as Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP for transport. For example the devices with limited display capabilities may already host a browser application or other means for managing HTTP communications and rendering HTML structures.

In one embodiment upon receiving data representing the presenter s particular window the online meeting server sends the data to HTML structure generator which performs a conversion of the data to an HTML document and sends the HTML document to the attendees to be displayed on their devices . . .

Functional examples are now described with reference to and . The examples of and may be implemented for example in web conference client logic of a presenter s computer or in online meeting server or in logic in each of the presenter s computer and the online meeting server that cooperates to provide the functions described herein.

In step the process determines that a presenter is using a desktop sharing session rather than an application sharing session. In general a desktop sharing session in a web conference is a session in which data representing a bitmapped image of the desktop of a presenter is distributed to attendees. In contrast in an application sharing session both the presenter and the attendees launch and run local copies of a software application and the session involves communicating application level data between the copies so that an attendee s local copy of an application will operate in the same manner as the presenter s copy. In an embodiment the present approach operates in the context of a desktop sharing session.

In an embodiment online meeting server can determine whether the presenter is using a desktop sharing session using several methods. For example such a determination may be made upon the initialization of the web conference when the presenter of the web conference selects whether the web conference will comprise a desktop sharing session or an application sharing session.

Alternatively the determination whether the presenter is using a desktop sharing session is made after the web conference is initialized. In such a case the presenter selects the desktop sharing session over the application sharing session while the web conference is in progress. For example the presenter may use web conference client logic to signal the online meeting server to initiate a desktop sharing session during a web conference.

In step the process determines whether one or more attendees participating in the desktop sharing session are using devices with limited display capabilities. Step may be performed using any of several methods to determine the type of the device which participates in the web conference. For example such a determination may be made upon the initialization of the web conference at that time each device joining the web conference identifies itself to the online meeting server and provides a device identifier value or other identifying information to the online meeting server.

Alternatively the determination of the type of the device may be made after the online meeting server sends communication packets requesting the device to provide its device type or hardware configuration and after the device responds to the request by providing the requested information. In still another alternatively discovery protocols or Web Services methods such as WS Discovery may be used to discover the type of devices that are participating in a web conference.

In step the process determines which window displayed on the desktop of the presenter is the particular window that the presenter wants to share with other attendees. For example the process may determine that the presenter wants to share with other attendees the top most window displayed on the presenter s screen. According to another example the process may determine that the presenter wants to share with other attendees a currently active window displayed on the presenter s screen. In some implementations the currently active window on the presenter s screen may be also the top most window on the presenter s screen. In one embodiment determining the particular window is performed by web conference client logic issuing a programmatic call to operating system or to a window manager associated with the operating system and requests an identification of the particular window . In response the operating system returns in a form that depends on the particular operating system information sufficient to permit the web conference client logic to identify the particular window e.g. the top most window the active window etc. and the contents of that window. The web conference client logic then sends information only for the particular window to the online meeting server . The online meeting server duplicates the received particular window information and delivers the particular window information to the attendee s window for each of the attendees of a web meeting.

Additionally or alternatively the web conference client logic may issue an operating system API call for identifying the window which is active as opposed to other windows that are inactive. Additionally or alternatively the web conference client logic may determine the top most window displayed in the presenter s desktop based on identifying a first the application that is active as opposed to other applications launched by the presenter but then currently inactive and then identifying a window associated with that application.

In step the process determines which application program is associated with the presenter s particular window. In one embodiment web conference client logic queries the operating system using an API call and receives a response that identifies the currently selected window. In an embodiment a window manager or task manager of the operating system maintains a stack of data for each active window and can interface to external calling programs using an API.

In step the process generates and sends to the attendees the data that are representative of the image or the text displayed only in the presenter s particular window. In an embodiment web conference client logic sends the data from the presenter s particular window to the online meeting server which sends the data to each of the attendees. Other windows or portions of windows on the desktop of the presenter are not sent to the online meeting server and are not sent to attendees. As a result each receiving attendee receives only the data relating to the currently selected window which enables a receiving device having a limited display capability to receive and display the data that the presenter is focusing on without receiving data that cannot be displayed or that would obscure or clutter the device display.

In an embodiment step involves the web conference client logic issuing an API call to operating system to obtain a name of the then currently selected application program or in certain embodiments a name of an application program associated with the then currently selected or particular window. The operating system responds by returning a name of the application program. The web conference client logic then may determine whether a word processing application is in use by comparing the returned name to a pre configured list of names of word processing applications. Alternatively the web conference client logic may obtain a filetype or file extension .DOC .RTF .TXT etc. associated with a file that is open in the then currently selected window or the particular window again using an API call to the operating system. The web conference client logic then can compare the filetype or file extension to a pre configured list of filtetypes or file extensions that indicate word processing application programs.

Upon completing the step the process generates and causes attendees to receive only text characters of the word processing document of the presenter s particular window. In various embodiments step may include capturing the current page s of the word processing document displayed on the presenter s particular window performing optical character recognition techniques on the captured page s and sending output text characters to the online meeting server for delivery to the attendees. Alternatively step may comprise calling an API function of the word processing application program and obtaining in response a text version of the currently displayed document. In still another alternative step may comprise identifying a data file that contains the word processing document opening the data file and converting the contents of the data file from a word processing format to a plain text format or a character format or extracting only text characters from the file through a process of format conversion or interpretation of codes in the file.

As a result the approach herein can deliver the content of a word processing document to attendees who are using devices that otherwise cannot display a desktop window that contains the content. For example the approach can provide to attendees who are using devices for which displaying the output of a word processing application would be impractical or impossible the text characters that are shown in the current word processing document without also sending toolbars icons fancy formatting and other information that the word processing application normally renders but which the attendees devices cannot display.

In an embodiment after step in step the process generates and causes attendees to receive only a graphical image bitmap of the presenter s particular window. In this context a bitmap is a data structure representing a generally rectangular grid of pixels or points of color viewable via a monitor or other display medium. Bitmap images may be stored in image files with varying formats such as for example .bmp .xpm .wbmp etc. A bitmap generally corresponds bit for bit to an image displayed on a screen and generally is in the format used in the display s video memory. A bitmap is technically characterized by the width and height of the image measured in the number of pixels and by the number of bits per pixel. Step may include capturing the image displayed on the presenter s particular window converting that image to a bitmap and sending the bitmap to the attendees.

In an embodiment after step in step the process generates and causes attendees to receive only an HTML representation of the presenter s particular window rather than a bitmap of the presenter s particular window. In an embodiment in step the web conference client logic captures the data displayed on the presenter s particular window converts the data to HTML format data and sends the HTML data to the online meeting server for sending to the attendees. In various embodiments step may comprise obtaining window contents by performing one or more API calls to an application program associated with the particular window or by performing a file conversion operation on a file that is open in an application program that is associated with the particular window. When the content has been obtained the content may be converted to HTML data using an HTML conversion process or tool. For example HTML conversion may comprise packaging text contents of the particular window in HTML tags that capture text centering boldface or various kinds of paragraph formatting. The converted HTML is then provided to the online meeting server .

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to storage media. Storage media includes both non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory .

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

