---

title: Methods and apparatus for referring media content
abstract: Methods, devices, computer program products and systems are provided for referring media content at communication devices, such as wireless communication devices. The methods, systems and devices allow for all forms of media content to be referred, such as audio, video, multimedia content and the like and, in particular advertising content. In addition, the methods, systems and devices provide for the content providers to optimize the delivery schedules and/or methods of delivery based on the volume of referrals. In addition, by tracking the volume of referrals, content providers can alter billing structure, such as advertising rates associated with advertising content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100549&OS=09100549&RS=09100549
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09100549
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080512
---
The disclosed aspects relate to communication devices and more particularly to systems and methods for referring media content at a communication device.

Communication devices and more specifically wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones have rapidly gained in popularity over the past decade. These devices are rapidly becoming multifaceted devices capable of providing a wide range of functions. For example a cellular telephone may also embody computing capabilities Internet access electronic mail text messaging GPS mapping digital photographic capability an audio MP3 player video gaming capabilities and the like.

In addition wireless communication devices are increasingly being manufactured with the ability to receive media content such as audio content video content multimedia content or the like. As such the communication devices may be configured to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast transmissions and or multicast transmissions and or one to one transmissions such as unicast transmissions or the like. An example of a current multicast system is the MediaFLO system available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. The MediaFLO system utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM air interface based technology designed specifically for multicasting a significant volume of rich multimedia content cost effectively to wireless device subscribers.

While multicasting and other transmission media allow for wireless devices to reliably receive multimedia content in a mobile environment users of such media content also enjoy being able to refer or otherwise recommend media content to friends colleagues family and the like. For example a user may choose to refer or recommend audio content such as a song or compact disc or video content such as a broadcast program a gaming application or the like.

In addition to conventional audio or video content many multicast and or broadcast systems rely on advertisements for generating revenue. In many instances advertisements themselves have become a form of media content in that in addition to providing information regarding a product or service the advertisement may be artistically significant humorous thought provoking or otherwise entertaining. As such a user may desire to refer or otherwise recommend advertisements to friends colleagues family or the like.

Further media content providers are always concerned with optimizing the transmission and reception of media content. In a multicast system content is delivered over a finite number of broadcast channels. Typically any one content item such as a program song advertisement or the like is broadcasted on a scheduled basis. In order to optimize the transmission and reception of media content it is necessary to know what content the users are using viewing or otherwise consuming. In this regard once the media content providers are aware of which content is being consumed by the users the content providers can adjust delivery schedules or otherwise re allocate network resources to insure that the highly consumed content is delivered more frequently. While actual use consumption information provides data for optimizing delivery schedules often times in the fleeting world of media content the use consumption information is considered dated material and optimization of delivery schedules based on this data may be out dated.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods and apparatus for referring media content at communication devices such as wireless communication devices.

The disclosed apparatus and methods provide for the referral of media content such as broadcast multicast and or unicast media content between communication devices such as wireless communication devices.

In particular devices methods apparatus computer readable media and processors are presented that provide for referring media content at communication devices such as wireless communication devices. The methods systems and devices provide for the referral of broadcast multicast and or unicast transmitted media content. The methods systems and devices should allow for all forms of media content to be referred such as audio video multimedia content and the like and in particular advertising content. In addition the methods systems and devices provide for the content providers to optimize the delivery schedules and or methods of delivery based on the volume of referrals.

In addition to knowing what content users are viewing consuming as a means of optimizing delivery of media content the media content providers also benefit from knowing which media content users are referring or otherwise recommending to other users. Typically referrals and recommendations occur as a means of getting the word out that the particular media content is available and is appealing. Thus referrals or recommendation information may allow content providers the ability to predict early on in the life of the media content the popularity of a media content item and to adjust the delivery schedules accordingly. In this regard media content that is being more frequently referred may be broadcasted more frequently and media content that is less frequently being referred may be broadcasted less frequently.

For the specific aspect that involves referral of advertising content if the media content provider is aware of what advertisements are being referred the content providers can not only adjust delivery schedules but also charge the advertising entity at a different rate based on the popularity of the advertisement and or the increased network allocation for the advertisement.

According to one aspect a method for referring content is defined. The referred content may include media content including but not limited to audio content video content multimedia content and the like. In particular aspects the referred content may be advertising content. The method includes the steps of obtaining via a one to many transmission received by a first communication device a plurality of content wherein each of the plurality of content includes a corresponding content identifier. A one to many transmission may include a broadcast transmission a multicast transmission or the like. The method also includes obtaining at the first communication device the content identifier corresponding to a predetermined one of the plurality of content desired to be referred obtaining at the first communication device a referral identifier corresponding to a predetermined referral receiving device and referring the predetermined one of the plurality of content to the predetermined referral receiving device by transmitting a first referral message including the content identifier and the referral identifier.

In certain aspects the step of transmitting the first referral message may involve transmitting the first referral message to a network device that is operable to generate and transmit to the referral receiving device based on the referral identifier a second referral message including the content identifier. In alternate aspects the step of transmitting the first referral message may involve transmitting the first referral message to the predetermined referral receiving device based on the referral identifier. In such aspects the first referral message may be operable upon receipt by the predetermined referral receiving device to activate the referral receiving device to listen for a one to many transmission of the referred content or the first referral message may further include a link operable for providing a unicast transmission of the referred content.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of obtaining via a one to many transmission received by a first communication device a plurality of content wherein each of the plurality of content includes a corresponding content identifier obtaining the content identifier corresponding to a predetermined one of the plurality of content desired to be referred obtaining a referral identifier corresponding to a predetermined referral receiving device and referring the predetermined one of the plurality of content to the predetermined referral receiving device by transmitting a first referral message including the content identifier and the referral identifier.

Another related aspect is defined by a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon. The instructions include a first set of instructions for obtaining via a one to many transmission a plurality of content wherein each of the plurality of content includes a corresponding content identifier a second set of instructions for obtaining the content identifier corresponding to a predetermined one of the plurality of content desired to be referred a third set of instructions for obtaining a referral identifier corresponding to a predetermined referral receiving device and a fourth set of instructions for referring the predetermined one of the plurality of content to the predetermined referral receiving device by transmitting a first referral message including the content identifier and the referral identifier.

Yet another related aspect is defined by a communication device that includes means for obtaining via a one to many transmission received by the communication device a plurality of content wherein each of the plurality of content comprises a corresponding content identifier means for obtaining at the communication device the content identifier corresponding to a predetermined one of the plurality of content desired to be referred means for obtaining at the communication device a referral identifier corresponding to a predetermined referral receiving device and means for referring the predetermined one of the plurality of content to the predetermined referral receiving device by transmitting a first referral message includes the content identifier and the referral identifier.

A further aspect is defined by a communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The communication device also includes a content receiver in communication with the processor and operable to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast multicast or related transmissions of a plurality of content and a content referral module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The content referral module is operable to obtain a content identifier corresponding to a predetermined one of the plurality of content desired to be referred obtain a referral identifier corresponding to a predetermined referral receiving device and generate a referral request message that includes the content identifier and the referral identifier. The communication device also includes a communication module in communication with the processor and operable for transmitting the referral request message to at least one of a network device and the referral receiving device.

Another aspect is provided for by a method for referring content such as media content that may include audio content video content multimedia content and the like. In one aspect the content may be advertising content. The method includes receiving at a network device a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message includes a first content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device. The method further includes transmitting a referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message includes a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content.

In some aspects the method may also include optimizing future transmissions of the referred content based on the receipt of the referral request message. The optimization may entail adjusting a transmission schedule for the referred content based on a rate at which the content is being referred and or determining a content delivery mechanism such as multicast or unicast transmission for the delivery of the referred content to the referral receiving device. In other aspects transmitting a referral message may entail multicasting the referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices or transmitting the referral message in conjunction with scheduled transmissions of the referred content.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor operable at a network device and configured to perform the actions of receiving a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message includes a first content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device The processor is further configured to perform the action of transmitting a referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message includes a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content.

Another related aspect is provided for by a machine readable medium including instructions stored thereon. The instructions include a first set of instructions for receiving at a network device a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message includes a first content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device. The instructions also include a second set of instructions for transmitting a referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message includes a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content.

Yet another related aspect is defined by a network device that includes means for receiving a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message includes a first content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device. The network device also includes means for transmitting a referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message comprises a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content.

A further related aspect is provided for by a network device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The device also includes a communication module in communication with the processor that is operable to receive a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message includes a first content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device. The device also includes a referral coordinator module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The referral coordinator module is operable to generate a referral message that is transmitted by the communication module to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message includes a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content.

The network device may also include a referred content optimization module operable to optimize future transmissions of the referred content based on the receipt of the referral request message. The optimization module may further be operable to adjust a transmission schedule for the referred content based of a rate at which the content is being referred and or determine a content delivery mechanism for the delivery of the referred content to the referral receiving device.

Another aspect is defined by a method of obtaining content. The method includes receiving a referral message including a referred content identifier receiving a one to many transmission of a plurality of content optimized at least in part based on the referral message. Each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. The method also includes obtaining the referred content from the transmission if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content. In some aspects of the method receiving a referral message may entail receiving a one to many transmission that includes the referral message receiving the referral message transmitted directly from a referring communication device and or receiving the referral message transmitted from a network device.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of receiving a referral message including a referred content identifier and receiving a one to many transmission of a plurality of content optimized at least in part based on the referral message Each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. The processor is also configured to perform the action of obtaining the referred content from the transmission if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content.

Another related aspect is provided for by a machine readable medium including instructions stored thereon. The instructions include a first set of instructions for receiving a referral message comprising a referred content identifier a second set of instructions for receiving a one to many transmission of a plurality of content optimized at least in part based on the referral message. Each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. The instructions additionally include a third set of instructions for obtaining the referred content from the transmission if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content.

A further related aspect is defined by a communication device including means for receiving a referral message comprising a referred content identifier means for receiving a one to many transmission of a plurality of content optimized at least in part based on the referral message. Each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. The communication device also includes means for obtaining the referred content from the transmission if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content.

Another aspect is defined by a communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The device also includes a communication module in communication with the processor that is operable to receive a referral message including a referred content identifier and operable to receive a one to many transmission of a plurality of content optimized at least in part based on the referral message wherein each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. The device also includes a referral implementer module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The referral implementer module is operable to obtain the referred content if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content.

Thus present aspects provide for referring media content at communication devices such as wireless communication devices. The methods systems and devices allow for all forms of media content to be referred such as audio video multimedia content and the like and in particular advertising content. In addition the methods systems and device provide for the content providers to optimize the delivery schedules and or methods of delivery based on the volume of referrals. In addition by tracking the volume of referrals content providers can alter billing structure such as advertising rates associated with advertising content.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects for content referral are described herein in connection with a wired or wireless communication device. A wired communication device may include a personal computer PC a network device such as a server or any other device having computing and network communication capabilities. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A wireless communication device may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

The described aspects provide for methods apparatus and systems for referring media content at communication devices such as wireless communication devices. The methods systems and devices provide for the referral of broadcast multicast and or unicast transmitted media content. The methods systems and devices should allow for all forms of media content to be referred such as audio video multimedia content and the like and in particular advertising content. In addition the methods systems and device may provide for the content providers to optimize the delivery schedules and or methods of delivery based on the volume of referrals.

Referring to a schematic representation of a system for referring content amongst communication devices. In the illustrated example of the communication devices and are wireless communication devices. However it should be noted that the aspects described herein are not limited to wireless communication devices and may include any form of communication device wired or wireless. The referral system may include the first communication device also referred to as the referring communication device the second communication device also referred to as the referral receiving device and network device which may serve to coordinate the referral and in some aspects optimize the delivery of content based on the received referrals.

The first and second communication devices and may be in broadcast communication with broadcast network . Broadcast network allows first and second communication devices and to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast or multicast transmission of content such as text content audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The first and second communication devices and may also be in network communication such as cellular network communication or the like with network device . Additionally the first and second wireless communication devices and may communication directly with each other via a peer to peer communication link or any other direct communication link.

The first communication device includes a computer platform having a processor and a memory . The first communication device may also include a communication module that includes a content receiver . The content receiver is operable to allow first communication device to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast or multicast transmissions of content . As previously noted content may include text content audio content video content gaming content or any other multimedia content received via one to many transmissions. In this regard the content may include subscription and non subscription content as well as advertising content which may be transmitted in conjunction with other content. Each of the plurality of content will have at least one associated content identifier that allows for the content to be referred to another communication device. Examples of content identifiers include but are not limited to a name a number a symbol a code etc. Content may be stored locally at the communication device remotely at a network device that is accessible to the communication device or in instances in which the transmission is streaming content the content may be played or otherwise consumed substantially without being stored on communication device .

The memory of communication device may include content player module operable for playing or otherwise consuming content . The memory also includes content referral module operable for providing content referrals to other communication devices. In one aspect the content referral module is implemented in conjunction with the content player module such that the playing or consumption of content by the player module provides for a user option to refer content to another communication device or a user associated with another communication device. The content referral module is operable to generate a referral request message . In generating the referral request message the content referral module is operable for obtaining a content identifier corresponding to the content to be referred and a referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device.

In one aspect a user of the first communication device will choose content to be referred. The chosen content may be currently being played by content player module stored within memory or otherwise available for playing consumption by first communication device . Choosing content for referral will provide for the content referral module to obtain a content identifier corresponding to the chosen one of the plurality of content. In addition a user of the first communication device will choose one or more referral receiving devices. Referral receiving devices may be identifiable by the user s name that is associated with the referral receiving device or a number such as a telephone number or an address such as an email address corresponding to the referral receiving device. Choosing a referral receiving device will provide for the content referral module to obtain a referral identifier corresponding to the chosen referral receiving device. Once the content identifier and the referral identifier are obtained the content referral module will generate a referral request message that includes the content identifier the referral identifier and a referring identifier that identifies first communication device as the referring device and or identifies the user of the first communication device . The referral request message may additionally include referral information such as an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the name of the referring party any note that the referring party may choose to append to the referral message and the like.

Once the referral request message has been generated the first communication module communicates the message via the communication module to the network device and or the second communication device . In some aspects the referral request message will be communicated to network device via network communication which will coordinate the communication of the referral to the designated referral receiving device. In other aspects the referral request message may be sent directly to the second communication device e.g. the referral receiving device via network communication peer to peer communication network or some other suitable network. In those aspects in which the referral request message is sent directly to the second communication device it may additionally be sent to the network device for the purpose of tracking the referral and or using referral data to optimize the delivery of the referred content.

The system may also include network device that is operable for coordinating the delivery of referrals and in some aspects optimizing the delivery of referred content based on referral data. The features of the network device that pertain to optimization of the delivery of the referred content are not shown in but rather are illustrated and discussed in relation to . The network device may include a computing platform that includes a processor a memory and a communication module . The communication module is operable to receive the referral request message communicated from the first communication device e.g. the referring communication device. The referral request message will include a first content identifier corresponding the predetermined referred content one or more referral identifiers corresponding to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices a referring identifier that corresponds to the referring device and or the user of the referring device and optionally referral information such as an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the name of the referring party any note that the referring party may choose to append to the referral message and the like.

In some aspects the memory of network device may include a referral coordinator module operable for coordinating the referral of content to the designated referral receiving devices. In such aspects the referral coordinator module may be operable to receive or otherwise implement the information included in the referral request message . The referral coordinator module may implement the information in the referral request message to generate a referral message . The referral message may include a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content a referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device a referring identifier corresponding to the referring device and optionally referral information . In some aspects the first and second content identifier may be one in the same in other aspects the first content identifier may differ from the second content identifier. Additionally the referral information may include the delivery schedule for broadcast or multicast transmissions of the referred content or a hyperlink for transmitting the content via unicast transmission. The referral message may be communicated via communication module to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message may be communicated as a standalone message or the referral message may be attached to the one or more of the subsequent one to many transmissions of the referred content or the referral message may be communicated to the referral receiving devices by any other communication technique. The referral coordinator module may be configured to communicate the referral message immediately upon receipt of the referral request message or the module may be configured to delay communication to an appropriate time to insure that the referral receiving devices receive and acknowledge the referral.

In addition the referral coordinator module may provide for the logging of referral data . Referral data may be used by network device or by other devices in the communication network for various purposes. For example referral data may provide for a rate of referral e.g. the volume of referral for a specific piece of content over a specified period of time . Rates of referral may indicate the popularity of the given piece of content. In some aspects the rates of referral may be used to determine billing rates associated with certain content. For example if the content is a highly referred commercial video file the content provider may determine that the content should be available at a premium fee while in the instance of a lesser referred commercial video file the content provider may determine that the content should be available at a discounted fee. In the same regard if the content is advertising content or the content is associated with advertising content the rate of referral may be used to alter advertising rates e.g. higher rates of referral of content or advertising content may dictate higher associated advertising rates while lower rates of referral of content or advertising content may dictate lower associated advertising rates. In addition referral data may be used to optimize delivery of referred content. As previously noted optimization of the delivery of content will be discussed in relation to .

The referral system will also include a second communication device that is operable to receive the referral and to communicate the referral to the user of the device . The second communication device includes a computer platform having a processor a memory and a communication module . The communication module is operable to receive a referral request message transmitted from the first communication device and or a referral message communicated from the network device . The referral request message includes first content identifier corresponding to the referred piece of content referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device such as second communication device referring identifier corresponding to the referring device such as first communication device and optionally referral information . The referral message includes second content identifier corresponding to the referred piece of content referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device such as second communication device referring identifier corresponding to the referring device such as first communication device and optionally referral information .

In some aspects the received content referrals or may identify content that is transmitted to the second communication device via a one to many transmission such as a broadcast transmission or a multicast transmission. The referred content may have previously been transmitted or otherwise received by device and pre exist in memory of device such as content stored in the library of content media player . In other aspects the referred content may have been previously transmitted to device or another network device and pre exist in remote memory that is accessible to device such as a network device server. In other aspects in which the device does not currently store the referred content or have access to other storage devices that include the referred content device may listen for one to many transmissions that include the referred content and capture the referred content for subsequent consumption playing. In other aspects the received content referrals or may identify content that is transmitted to the second communication device via a unicast transmission such as providing a network link in the form of a hyperlink or the like that is presented to the user of device for the purpose of accessing the referred content.

The memory of second communication device includes a referral implementer module that is operable for interpreting presenting and implementing the received referrals. The referral implementer module may be configured to present referral information to the device user in any known format. Referral information may include any form of an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the referring identifier information such as the name of the referring party and any note that the referring party may have appended to the referral message. Additionally the referral information may include the delivery schedule for broadcast or multicast transmissions of the referred content or a hyperlink for transmitting the content via unicast transmission. In one example the referral implementer module may be configured to present referral information upon receipt in pop up form or otherwise regardless of whether the device has current access to the content or whether the content has yet to be transmitted to the device. In another example the referral implementer module may present the referral information in conjunction with receipt of the content either once the device has retrieved the content from memory such as local memory or another memory accessible to device or once the content has been transmitted such as via a one to many transmission and received by the second communication device .

Additionally the referral implementer module may be configured to automatically play consume the referred content either in full form or in small segment e.g. a clip or snippet form along with the referral information once the content has been retrieved from memory or received by the device via a one to many transmission. In other aspects the referral implementer module may be configured to play consume the referred content only at the bequest of the user of device .

In some aspects referral implementer module may be configured to identify the referred content and listen to one to many transmissions for the referred content and capture and store the referred content as the content is being received by content receiver . In this regard the referral implementer module may be operable to recognize the first or second content identifiers and or in the referral request message and or referral message and to capture and record the referred content if a match is found between the content identifier and or and identifiers associated with received content in one to many transmissions.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a first communication device otherwise referred to as the content referring device operable for referring content is depicted. As previously noted the communication device may be any wired or wireless communication. Wireless communication devices may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof. Wired communication devices may include any type of computerized communication device such as a personal computer a landline telephone or any other device having a wired communication portal and which may also have a wireless connection to a network such as a wireless cellular network the Internet or the like. Thus present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired communication device or wired computer module.

The first communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as content player module and or content referral module stored in the memory of the communication device . In wireless aspects the API layer is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wired and or wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the content player module and or content referral module on computer platform .

Computer platform may further include communication module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the communication device and broadcast network wireless network and peer to peer network . In this regard the communication module may include a content receiver operable to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast transmissions multicast transmissions or the like. In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all correspondence between the first communication device the second communication device and network device . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless or wired network communication connection.

The memory of communication device may include content player module operable for playing or otherwise consuming content . Content may include any content received via content receiver such as one to many transmitted content such as broadcast content or multicast content. In this regard content may be text content audio content video content multimedia content or any other suitable presentable content. Additionally content may be commercial content including but not limited to song files gaming applications movie files video files book files instructional files or the like that requires a subscription or payment for consumption playing. Alternatively content may be non commercial content such as advertising content or the like that does not require subscription or payment for consumption playing.

The memory also includes content referral module operable for providing content referrals to other communication devices. In one aspect the content referral module is implemented in conjunction with the content player module such that the playing or consumption of content by the player module provides for a user option to refer content to another communication device or a user associated with another communication device. In other aspects the user of device may select any other content accessible to the user for referral such as content stored on the device content stored remotely from the device but accessible to the device and or content currently being received and consumed by the device but not stored e.g. streaming content or the like . In one aspect the content referral module allows a user to choose content to be referred referral receiving devices and any other information related to the referral such as input of a referral message or the like.

The content referral module is operable to generate a referral request message based on the selection of referral content and referral receiving devices. Upon selection of the referral content and the referral receiving devices the content referral module obtains a content identifier corresponding to the content to be referred and a referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device. The content identifier may be a name a number a symbol a code or the likeassociated with the content that allows the network device to identify the content being referred for subsequent referral to the referral receiving device and or for the referral receiving device to identify the content being referred from amongst locally stored content remotely stored accessible content and or one to many transmitted content. Alternatively the content identifier may be a hyperlink or the like that provides for the user of the referral receiving device to engage in order to transmit the content via unicast transmission. The referral identifier may be any name a number a symbol a code or the like which identifies the referral receiving device and or the user associated with the referral receiving device for the purpose of properly delivering the referral to the requested referral party. The referral request message may also include a referring identifier that identifies the referring party and any additional referral information such as a personalized or generic message from the referral party. The referral request message may additionally include referral information such as an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the name of the referring party any note that the referring party may choose to append to the referral message and the like.

The communication module is also operable for transmitting the referral request message to the network device and or the second communication device . In some aspects the referral request message may be communicated to a network device which in turn generates and communicates a referral message to the designated referral receiving device. In other aspects the referral request message is sent directly to the designated referral receiving device and acts as the referral message. In aspects in which the referral request message is sent directly to the referral receiving device the referral request message may also be transmitted to the network device for the purpose of tracking the referrals and optimizing network delivery of referred content.

Additionally communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate and interface with an application such as the content player module or the like on the communication device . In some aspects input mechanisms provide for the user of the device to select content for referral and to select referring devices and or other referring users. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display and an audio speaker operable to display content and referral options and audibly present content respectively.

Referring to according to another aspect a block diagram is illustrated of a network device such as referral server operable to coordinate the referral of content and in some aspects optimize the delivery of content based on the referrals. The network device may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network device may be executed entirely on the network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the communication device and communication device and the modules and applications executed by network device .

The network device includes computer platform that can transmit and receive data across network communication and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device.

The computer platform may further include a communication module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and communication devices and . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. The communication module is operable to receive referral request messages which are transmitted from referring devices such as first communication device . As previously noted the referral request message may include first content identifier corresponding to the content being referred referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device referring identifier corresponding to the device referring the content and any other referral related information and optionally referral information such as an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the name of the referring party any note that the referring party may choose to append to the referral message and the like.

The memory of network device may also include a referral coordinator module that is operable for coordinating the delivery of content referrals to the designated referral receiving devices. In such aspects the referral coordinator module may be operable to receive or otherwise implement the information included in the referral request message to generate a referral message . The referral message may include a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content a referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device a referring identifier corresponding to the referring device and optionally referral information . Additionally the referral information may include the delivery schedule for broadcast or multicast transmissions of the referred content or a hyperlink for transmitting the content via unicast transmission. In some aspects the first and second content identifier and may be one in the same for example a title code number or the like that identifies the content and provides for the content to be recognized from stored content and or one to many transmissions that include the content. In alternate aspects the first content identifier may differ from the second content identifier. For example the first content identifier may be a title code number or the like that identifies the content and the second content identifier may be a hyperlink that allows for the user of the referral receiving device to activate to provide unicast transmission of the referred content.

The communication module of network device may further be operable to communicate the referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. In some aspects the referral message may be communicated as a standalone message and in other aspects referral message may be attached to one or more of the subsequent one to many transmissions of the referred content. In still other aspects referral message may be communicated to the referral receiving devices by any other communication technique.

In addition the referral coordinator module may provide for the logging of referral data . Referral data may be used by network device or by other devices in the communication network for various purposes. For example referral data may provide for a rate of referral e.g. the volume of referral for a specific piece of content over a specified period of time . Rates of referral may indicate user interest or popularity of the given piece of content. In some aspects the rates of referral may be used to determine billing rates associated with certain content. For example if the content is a highly referred commercial video file the content provider may determine that the content should be available for a premium fee while in the instance of a lesser referred commercial video file the content provider may determine that the content should be available at a discounted fee. In the same regard if the referred content is advertising content or the content is associated with advertising content the rate of referral may be used to alter advertising rates e.g. higher rates of referral of advertising content may dictate higher associated advertising rates while lower rates of referral of advertising content may dictate lower associated advertising rates.

The memory of network device may additional include delivery optimization module that is operable for optimizing one to many transmissions of content based on referral data. The delivery optimization module may include content delivery schedule adjuster that is operable to adjust delivery schedules based on the volume and or rate of referral for a given piece of content. For example content having a high volume of referrals and or a high rate of referral may result in adjustment of the delivery schedule to accommodate more frequent transmission delivery of the content. In contrast content having a low volume of referrals and or a low rate of referral may result in adjustment to the delivery schedule to accommodate less frequent transmission delivery of the content. Additionally delivery optimization module may include content delivery mechanism determiner operable to determine the delivery mechanism based on the volume and or rate of referral. For example content having a high volume of referrals and or a high rate of referral may be forwarded via a one to many transmission such as broadcast or multicast transmission of the referred content. In contrast content having a low volume of referrals and or a low rate of referral may necessitate unicast transmission of the referred content to the referral receiving device.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a second communication device otherwise referred to as the referral receiving device operable for receiving a content referral and presenting the referral to the user of the device. As previously noted the communication device may be any wired or wireless communication. Wireless communication devices may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof. Wired communication devices may include any type of computerized communication device such as a personal computer a landline telephone or any other device having a wired communication portal and which may also have a wireless connection to a network such as a wireless cellular network the Internet or the like. Thus present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired communication device or wired computer module.

The communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as content player module and or referral implementer module stored in the memory of the communication device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software platform developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the content player module and or the referral implementer module on computer platform .

The computer platform of second communication device may further include a communication module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the second communication device as well as between the device and first communication devices and network device . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a communication connection. The communication module may include content receiver operable for receiving one to many transmissions such as broadcast and or multicast transmissions. The communication module is operable to receive referral request messages which are transmitted from referring devices such as first communication device . As previously noted the referral request message may include first content identifier corresponding to the content being referred referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device referring identifier corresponding to the device referring the content and optionally referral information . The communication module may also be operable to receive referral message which is transmitted from network device . As previously noted the referral message may include second content identifier corresponding to the content being referred referral identifier corresponding to the referral receiving device referring identifier corresponding to the device referring the content and optionally referral information .

In some aspects the received content referrals or may identify referred content that is transmitted to the second communication device via a one to many transmission such as a broadcast transmission or a multicast transmission. In this regard the referred content may have previously been transmitted or otherwise received by device and pre exist in device memory such as content stored in the library of content media player . In other aspects the referred content may have been previously transmitted to device or another network device and pre exist in remote memory that is accessible to device such as a network device server. In other aspects in which the device does not currently store the referred content or have access to other storage devices that include the referred content device may listen for subsequent one to many transmissions that include the referred content and capture the referred content for subsequent consumption playing. In other aspects the received content referrals or may identify content that is transmitted to the second communication device via a unicast transmission such as providing a network link in the form of a hyperlink or the like that is presented to the user of device for the purpose of accessing the referred content.

The memory of second communication device includes a referral implementer module that is operable for interpreting presenting and implementing the received referrals. The referral implementer module may be configured to present referral information to the device user in any acceptable format or manner. Referral information may include any form of an indicator that indicates that content is being referred the referring identifier information such as the name of the referring party and any note that the referring party may have appended to the referral message. Additionally the referral information may include the delivery schedule for broadcast or multicast transmissions of the referred content or a hyperlink for transmitting the content via unicast transmission. In one example the referral implementer module may be configured to present referral information upon receipt in pop up form or otherwise regardless of whether the device has current access to the content or whether the content has yet to be transmitted to the device. In another example the referral implementer module may present the referral information in conjunction with receipt of the content either once the device has retrieved the content from memory either local memory or another memory accessible to device or once the content has been transmitted via a one to many transmission and received by the second communication device .

Additionally the referral implementer module may be configured to automatically play consume the referred content either in full form or in small segment e.g. snippet form along with the referral information once the content has been retrieved from memory or received by the device via a one to many transmission. In other aspects the referral implementer module may be configured to play consume the referred content only at the bequest of the user of device .

In some aspects referral implementer module may be configured to identify the referred content and listen to one to many transmissions for the referred content and capture and store the referred content as the content is being received by content receiver . In this regard the referral implementer module may be operable to recognize the first or second content identifiers and or in the referral request message and or referral message and to capture and record the referred content if a match is found between the content identifier and or and identifiers associated with received content in one to many transmissions.

Additionally communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate and interface with an application such as the content player module or the like on the communication device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display and an audio speaker operable to display content and audibly present content respectively associated with the referred content.

The server operates to provide content for distribution to users in the network . The content includes but is not limited to video audio multimedia content clips real time and non real time content or any other type of suitable media content. The server provides the content to the multicast network and or the unicast network for distribution. For example the server communicates with the multicast network via the communication link which comprises any suitable type of wired and or wireless communication link. Likewise the server communicates with the unicast network via the communication link which comprises any suitable type of wired and or wireless communication link

The network includes any combination of wired and wireless networks that operate to distribute content for delivery to users. The multicast network includes any combination of wired and wireless networks that are designed to broadcast high quality content. For example the multicast network may be a specialized proprietary network that has been optimized to deliver high quality content to selected devices over a plurality of optimized communication channels such as the MediaFLO system.

In one or more aspects the transport system operates to deliver content from the server through the multicast network or the unicast network to the wireless devices . For example content flow may comprise a non real time content clip that was provided by the server for distribution using the multicast network . In one aspect the server operates to negotiate with the multicast network to determine one or more parameters associated with the content clip. Once the multicast network receives the content clip it broadcasts multicasts the content clip over the network for reception by one or more of the devices . Any of the devices may be authorized to receive the content clip and record it and or share it in accordance with present aspects.

For example the devices include a client program that operates to provide a program guide that displays a listing of content that is scheduled for broadcast over the network . The device user may then select to receive any particular content for rendering in real time or to be recorded and stored in a memory for later viewing. For example the content clip may be scheduled for broadcast during the evening hours and the devices operates to receive the broadcast and record the content in the memory so that the device user may view the clip in the future. Typically the content is broadcast as part of a subscription service and the receiving device may need to provide a key or otherwise authenticate itself to receive the broadcast.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method for referring content is depicted. At Event a communication device obtains a piece of content from a one to many transmission such as a broadcast transmission or a multicast transmission. The content may include but is not limited to text content audio content video content multimedia content gaming content and the like. In one specific aspect the content may be advertising content. The content includes a corresponding content identifier such as a title a code a number or the like that identifies the content.

At Event the communication device obtains the content identifier that corresponds to the predetermined piece of content. In one aspect a user selects a piece of content for referral and the communication device obtains the content identifier that corresponds to the selected content. At Event the communication device obtains one or more referral identifiers corresponding to predetermined one or more referral receiving devices. The referral identifiers may be a name a number an address or the like that corresponds to the referral receiving device. In one aspect a user selects the one or more referral receiving devices and the communication device obtains the referral identifier that corresponds to the selected referral receiving device.

At Event the predetermined referral content is referred to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices by transmission of a referral request message that includes the content identifier and the one or more referral identifiers. In one aspect the communication device transmits the referral request message to a network device that generates and transmits a referral message to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. Additionally the network device may optimize the transmission schedule of the referred content based on the referral. In another aspect the communication device transmits the referral request message directly to the referral receiving device and additionally may transmit the referral request message to a network device that logs referral information and optionally optimizes the transmission schedule of the referred content based on the referral. In aspects in which the referral request message is communicated directly to the referral receiving device the message may be operable upon receipt to activate the referral receiving device to listen for a one to many transmission of the referred content and to capture the referred content if a match exists between the content identifier and the received content in the transmissions. In alternate aspects in which the referral request message is communicated directly to the referral receiving device the content identifier may be defined as a hyperlink operable for providing a unicast transmission of the referred content.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method for referring content is depicted. At Event a network device receives a referral request message from a communication device. The referral request message may include a content identifier corresponding to a predetermined referred piece of content and one or more referral identifiers each corresponding to a respective predetermined referral receiving device. The predetermined piece of content may include but is not limited to text content audio content video content multimedia content gaming content and the like. In one specific aspect the content may be advertising content. The content identifier may be but is not limited to such as a title a code a number a link or the like that identifies the content or provides access to the content.

At optional Event the network device optimizes future transmissions of the referred content based on the referral request message. In one aspect the network device optimizes future transmissions delivery of the referred content by determining the volume or rate of referral for any given piece of content and adjusting the transmission delivery schedule based on the volume or rate. For example pieces of content with higher referral volumes or higher referral rates are transmitted delivered more frequently and pieces of content with lower volumes or lower referral rates are transmitted delivered less frequently. Additionally optimization may include determining the delivery mechanism for referred content based on the volume of referral or rate of referral for a given piece of content. For example pieces of content with higher referral volumes or higher referral rates may be transmitted via one to many transmission such as broadcast transmission multicast transmission or the like and pieces of content with lower referral volumes or lower referral rates may be transmitted via a one to one transmission such as unicast transmission or the like.

At Event a referral message is transmitted to the one or more predetermined referral receiving devices. The referral message includes a second content identifier corresponding to the predetermined referred content and one or more referral identifier corresponding to each of the one or more referral receiving devices. The second content identifier may differ from the first content identifier in the referral request message or in alternate aspects the first and second content identifiers may be one in the same. The referral message may be transmitted as a standalone message or the referral message may be attached to subsequent one to many transmissions of the referred content. The referral message may be operable upon receipt to activate the referral receiving device to listen for a one to many transmission of the referred content and to capture the referred content if a match exists between the content identifier and the received content in the transmissions. Alternatively in other aspects the referral message may be operable to determine if the referral receiving device has access to memory either local or remote that currently stores the predetermined referred content. In alternate aspects the second content identifier may be defined as a hyperlink operable for providing a unicast transmission of the referred content.

Referring to a flow diagram of another method for referring content is depicted. At Event a communication device receives a referral message that includes a content identifier. The referral message may be communicated directly from a referring communication device or in alternate aspects the referral message may be communicated from a network device that coordinates content referrals. The referral message may be communicated via a one to many transmission via a peer to peer transmission or any other network transmission. The referral message may be a standalone message or the referral message may be communicated with transmission of the referred content. The predetermined piece of content may include but is not limited to text content audio content video content multimedia content gaming content and the like. In one specific aspect the content may be advertising content. The content identifier may be but is not limited to such as a title a code a number a link or the like that identifies the content or provides access to the content.

At Event the communication device receives one to many transmissions such as broadcast transmissions multicast transmissions or the like that include a plurality of content. The delivery transmission of the content may be optimized based on the referral. Each of the plurality of content corresponds to a respective content identifier. At Event the communication device obtains the content referred in the referral message if a match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content. If no match exists between the referred content identifier and a respective content identifier of one of the plurality of content the referral message may provide for obtaining the content via a one to one transmission such as a unicast transmission.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium.

Thus present aspects provide for referring media content at communication devices such as wireless communication devices. The methods systems and devices may allow for all forms of media content to be referred such as audio video multimedia content and the like and in particular advertising content. In addition the methods systems and device may provide for the content providers to optimize the delivery schedules and or methods of delivery based on the volume of referrals. In addition by tracking the volume of referrals content providers may alter billing structure such as advertising rates associated with advertising content.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

