---

title: Layered augmentation for web content
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure include methods (and corresponding systems and computer program products) that augment content in web pages with resources and provide the resources based on user interaction with the augmented content in the web pages. The disclosed embodiments analyzes a web page to identify a keyword, locates a piece of reference data matching the identified keyword, generates an association of the located piece of reference data and the keyword, and embeds the association in an augmented web page. Upon receiving a request from a client computer corresponding to a pointer being positioned over the keyword in the augmented web page, the disclosed embodiments determines relevant resources, and transmits the resources to the client computer for display in a multi-layered dialog box, such that a viewer can access the plurality of resources by interacting with the multi-layered dialog box without leaving the augmented web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08122014&OS=08122014&RS=08122014
owner: Vibrant Media, Inc.
number: 08122014
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080918
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 779 254 U.S. Pat. No. 7 698 311 entitled Method And System For Augmenting and Tracking Web Content by Douglas Stevenson and Craig Allen Gooding filed on Jul. 17 2007 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 645 313 filed Aug. 20 2003 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 257 585 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 484 818 filed on Jul. 2 2003 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 033 539 U.S. Pat. No. 7 853 558 filed on Feb. 19 2008 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of data augmentation in particular to augmenting textual content in documents.

Hypertext is commonly used to provide related or supplemental information in a web page. Hypertext is the organization of computer based text into connected associations enabling a user to quickly access information that the user chooses. An instance of such an association is called a hyperlink or hypertext link. A hyperlink when selected leads the viewer to another web page or file or resource collectively called the destination page .

In order to access the supplemental information provided through hyperlinks viewers are required to leave their current web pages. This requirement interrupts the viewers web browsing experience. As a result most viewers are reluctant to visit the destination page provided by hyperlinks.

In addition traditionally the hyperlinks are generated by human editors a process that is both tedious and subject to human errors. Further by the time a viewer tries to visit a destination page of a hyperlink the destination page may cease to exist or have evolved to no longer provide the related information.

Thus the art lacks inter alia a system and method for augmenting textual content in web pages with supplemental information or resources enabling viewers of the web pages to access the supplemental information without leaving the web pages and maintaining the augmentation up to date.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include methods and corresponding systems and computer program products that augment content in web pages with resources and provide augmented content such as relevant information and advertisements based on user interaction with the augmented content in the web pages.

The disclosed embodiments comprise analyzing a web page to identify a keyword or a set of keywords or phrases in the web page locating a piece of reference data from a reference database matching the identified keyword generating an association of the located piece of reference data and the keyword and embedding the association in an augmented web page corresponding to the web page. Upon receiving a request from a client computer corresponding to a pointer being positioned over the keyword in the augmented web page the disclosed embodiments determine a plurality of resources relevant to the keyword by searching for the plurality of resources using the located piece of reference data in a resource database and transmit the plurality of resources to the client computer for display in a multi layered dialog box such that a viewer can access the plurality of resources by interacting with the multi layered dialog box without leaving the augmented web page.

Advantages of the disclosed embodiments include providing content providers with additional channels for delivering relevant advertisements and other content to viewers. Because the relevant resources are presented in a multi layered dialog box viewers can access more relevant resources in a well organized manner. Because the augmented data is displayed as an overlay of the current web page the disclosed embodiments in essence establish a third dimension e.g. a z axis to present information the first and second dimensions being the length e.g. a x axis and width e.g. a y axis of the web page enabling viewers to access additional relevant content without leaving the current web page. This feature is beneficial for devices with limited screen space for example mobile computing devices e.g. handheld computers or conventional computer screens having many active windows that are simultaneously displayed. The disclosed embodiments also enhance viewers web browsing experience by providing relevant content overlays without the need to leave their current web page to augment the information to provide for a user.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The disclosed embodiments describe examples of a method and corresponding system and computer program product for augmenting files with related resources through layered augmentation. Viewers of the augmented files can access the related resources through a multi layered dialog box. The process of providing additional resources through multi layered dialog box and the multi layered dialog box are collectively called layered augmentation.

The method identifies data in a file associates the identified data with reference data in a reference database and stores the associations in a corresponding augmented file. A viewer of the augmented file can access resources related to a piece of augmented data through layered augmentation. When the viewer moves a pointer over the piece of augmented data also called mouse over the related resources are provided in a multi layered dialog box. The dialog box is overlaid on the augmented file approximate to the position where the mouse over occurred. The viewer can navigate through the related resources in the dialog box without leaving the augmented file.

As described herein a file includes any types of documents such as web pages. Augmented data the data with integrated association in an augmented file include any types of content such as text and image. Resources provided through layered augmentations include textual content visual content such as images and videos interactive controls such as dialog boxes and services such as Internet search service and advertisement. A pointer can be any pointer device such as a mouse a trackball a roller and a touchpad. For purposes of illustration the method and corresponding system and computer program product is described in terms of augmenting keywords or key phrases in web pages and delivering related advertisements through multi layered dialog boxes based on user interactions with the augmented keywords even though the disclosed embodiments apply to all other types of content files and resources as defined above.

The figures and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternate embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized by one skilled in the art as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The augmentation server is configured to augment keywords or other types of content in web pages or other types of documents with advertisements or other types of resources and deliver the advertisements based on user interaction with the augmented keywords. The augmentation server retrieves web pages from the content providers and augments the web pages. The augmentation server augments a web page by identifying keywords in the web page associating or tagging the keywords with one or more related references in a reference database generating an augmented web page and storing the associations in a database. When a user views an augmented web page in a client computer and moves a pointer over one of the augmented keywords hereinafter the activated keyword the augmentation server displays or avails related advertisements in the client computer through a multi layered dialog box. An example architecture of the augmentation server is described in detail below with respect to .

The content providers are entities that provide or generate host publish control or otherwise have rights over a collection of web pages or other types of documents . In one embodiment the content providers are web servers hosting web pages for viewers to access. The content providers may provide web pages to the augmentation server for layered augmentation. Alternatively the content providers may either instruct or give permission to the augmentation server to retrieve all or parts of their web pages for layered augmentation.

The client computers are client devices for users to browse web pages or other types of documents . In one embodiment a client computer includes a pointer device e.g. a mouse a trackball a roller a touchpad or the like a conventional web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Apple Safari and can retrieve and display web pages from the content providers in a conventional manner e.g. using the HyperText Transfer Protocol . In one embodiment the client computer displays augmented keywords in an augmented web page differently than the non augmented content. For example the augmented keywords can be displayed in a double underline style and or in a color distinctive from texts that are not augmented. When a user moves a pointer e.g. mouse pointer over e.g. mouse over an augmented keyword in the augmented web page the client computer or the utilized web browser generates a request and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The augmentation server receives the request and determines relevant advertisements to transmit to the client computer . The client computer or the utilized web browser displays the advertisements retrieved from the augmentation server in a multi layered dialog box overlaying the augmented web page and proximate to the location where the mouse over occurred. The multi layered dialog box displays an advertisement and multiple clickable tabs representing the other retrieved advertisements. The viewer can select e.g. click a tab to request the dialog box to display the corresponding advertisement. The viewer may navigate among the multiple advertisements and interact with the advertisements without leaving the augmented web page.

The network is configured to communicatively connect the augmentation server the content providers and the client computers . The network may be a wired or wireless network. Examples of the network include the Internet an intranet a WiFi network a WiMAX network a mobile telephone network or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the augmentation server the content providers and or the client computers are structured to include a processor memory storage network interfaces and applicable operating system and other functional software e.g. network drivers communication protocols .

A source data file e.g. a web page resides on a server e.g. a content provider on a network e.g. the Internet . The handler retrieves the source data file for augmentation by the augmentation server . The locator examines the retrieved source data file for comparison to data in the reference database . In one embodiment the locator analyzes content of the source data file for keywords searches corresponding reference data in the reference database and provides the keywords and the corresponding reference data to the analyzer . In an alternate embodiment rather than analyzing the source data file for keywords the locator retrieves a list of keywords from the reference database and enumerates through the textual content of the source data file for matches.

The analyzer creates associations between the keywords and the corresponding reference data found by the locator . The generator generates an augmented data file by embedding the associations created by the analyzer in the source data file . The generator embeds associations by generating intelligent tags for the keywords and augmenting the keywords with the intelligent tags. In one embodiment an intelligent tag is an alphabetic and or numeric string that identifies its associated keywords and or reference data and optionally includes an unique identification number hereinafter called the association ID . The generator inserts the generated intelligent tags into the source data file to generate the augmented data file . Web pages with the integrated intelligent tags are called augmented web pages. Keywords with the integrated intelligent tags are called augmented keywords. The generator also stores the identified keywords and or the associations in a database for later references.

The resulting augmented data file is returned to the handler to reside at a Universal Resource Locator URL address on the network e.g. at the content provider from which the source data file is retrieved . In one embodiment the handler also receives requests or signals from client computers indicating user interactions with the augmented data file and transmits to the client computers related advertisements for display through layered augmentation. Layered augmentation is described in detail below with respect to . The handler retrieves the activated keywords e.g. from the requests and determines one or more relevant advertisements from an advertising database not shown that matches the keywords and or the associated reference data. In one embodiment rather than transmitting the related advertisements the handler transmits addresses e.g. URLs of the relevant advertisements to the requesting client computer . The client computer resolves the addresses to retrieve the advertisements.

The reference database stores reference data such as types of advertisements e.g. television advertisements categories of advertisements e.g. storage rental home equity loan and or information about specific advertisements e.g. associated keywords format information price the advertiser is willing to pay and URL of the advertisement . The reference database may be a relational database or any other type of database that stores the data such as a flat file. In one embodiment the reference database is a web enabled reference database supporting remote calls through the Internet to the reference database .

The components of the augmentation server can reside on a single computer system or several computer systems located close by or remotely from each other. For example the analyzer and the generator may reside on separate web servers and the reference database may be located in a dedicated database server. In addition any of the components or sub components may be executed in one or multiple computer systems.

Web pages or web browsers can provide additional information to viewers. For example when a user places a mouse over a link label of a hyperlink a web browser displays the associated destination URL e.g. on a status bar of the web browser . As another example when a user places a pointer over a keyword the web browser may generate a pop up dialog box and display relevant information e.g. an explanation of the keyword . The process of providing additional information to web page viewers is called augmentation.

A keyword or phrase often has multiple aspects of related information each having multiple aspects of related information. For example the key phrase digital camera is related to its history underlying technology and available products and services. A specific product related to digital camera has related information such as product description customer review and competing products. Usually only one aspect of the related information is provided through augmentation due to limited display space.

Multiple aspects of related information can be arranged and provided to viewers through layered augmentation. Each aspect of related information can be assigned to one specific layer of the layered augmentation. Viewers can navigate among the multiple aspects of related information by accessing the different layers of the layered augmentation without leaving the web page. For example the augmented information can be displayed in a multi layered dialog box. A viewer can navigate among different layers by selecting associated tabs displayed in the dialog box in which each tab is associated with a layer. Alternatively the multiple layers may be stacked in a manner similar to windows in Microsoft Windows Operating System. The stacked layers may be arranged in a horizontal vertical or cascade style showing a small exposed portion of each layer such as a title area or a corner area. Navigation between each layer in the stack can be through selection of that small exposed portion of the layer within the stack. The process of providing additional information or resources through multi layered dialog box and the multi layered dialog box are collectively called layered augmentation.

By way of example the illustrated method may be embodied through instructions for performing the actions described herein and such instrumentations can be stored within a tangible computer readable medium and are executable by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the illustrated method may be implemented in modules like those in the augmentation server described above with respect to and or other entities such as the content providers and or the client computers . Furthermore those of skill in the art will recognize that other embodiments can perform the steps of the illustrated method in different order. Moreover other embodiments can include different and or additional steps than the ones described here.

At a block the method locates one or multiple pieces of reference data in the reference database corresponding to the piece of structured data read in the source data file e.g. through the locator . In one embodiment the locator searches for reference data in the reference database that match the piece of structured data by making function calls to the reference database . In one embodiment the structured data are keywords and the reference data also contain keywords.

Keywords are a facile and efficient means of generating layered augmentation. In addition to or instead of using keywords one embodiment uses a fuzzy expert or a neural network analysis of the source data file such as by a natural language search of the source data file to generate a distinct identifier for the content in the source data file . One advantage of a natural language search is the ability to better place content in context making links more contextually appropriate for instance security might relate to security of a physical plant such as security of a residence in one source data file in one context and security of a website in another. In one embodiment the method determines a context of the keywords and or the source data file based on statistical modeling e.g. through the locator . For example a context can be assigned a pre defined set of terms which acts as a fingerprint for the context hereinafter called context fingerprint . The locator can compare the context fingerprints associated with a collection of contexts with the terms within the source data file to determine a percentage match for each context in the collection. Where a high percentage match is achieved e.g. exceeding a pre defined percentage match threshold the locator determines that the associated context is the context for the source data file . Alternatively or in conjunction the locator may determine the context associated with the highest percentage match as the context for the source data file . The context can be used to locate corresponding reference data and or related resources.

At a block the method generates an association to the piece of structured data based upon the located matching reference data e.g. through the analyzer . In one embodiment a piece of reference data includes an identifier such as a keyword a context a unique identification number and or associated URL address es of intended destination resource s based upon the occurrence of the corresponding keywords in the source data file . Generating an association means to associate the piece of structured data located in the source data file with the located reference data in the reference database . The generated association might optionally include additional identification codes such as an association ID. The method then augments the original source data file with the generated association at a block to generate an augmented data file e.g. through the generator .

In one embodiment the method expresses the association as intelligent tags e.g. through the generator . The method generates intelligent tags for the located keywords and tags the keywords with the generated intelligent tags. The intelligent tags contain information about the associated keywords such as the keyword and related context and information about the associated reference data such as IDs that uniquely identify the reference data in the reference database . For example the intelligent tags may contain requirement or preference information about advertisements or other types of resources to be associated with the keyword such as types of advertisements and a minimum advertisement fee. In one embodiment the intelligent tags also format the augmented keywords differently than the other textual content in the augmented web pages. Having generated the augmented data file the method then terminates at a block .

In one embodiment the augmentation server or the content providers also augments the web pages by including computer code hereinafter called client code to monitor and report viewers interactions with the augmented keywords. The computer code can be in any computer language such as JavaScript. Additional functions of the client code are described in detail below with respect to .

The augmented data file can be delivered or transmitted to client computers for display through a web browser to viewers to provide related resources through layered augmentation. The delivery of the augmented data file and the process to provide layered augmentation is described in detail below with respect to . For purpose of illustration the method is described in terms of web pages augmented with advertisements even though the disclosed embodiments apply to other types of augmented data file and resources.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an example process or method for providing layered augmentation to viewers of augmented web pages. As illustrated the method transmits an augmented web page to a client computer. For example a user of the client computer may enter the URL of an augmented web page or the corresponding original web page in the address bar of a conventional web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Apple Safari . The web browser of the client computer hereinafter called the client web browser resolves the URL and transmits a request for the web page to a corresponding content provider. Responding to the request the content provider transmits the augmented web page to the client web browser for display. In one embodiment the client web browser displays augmented keywords in a double underline style and or in a color distinctive from text that is not augmented in the augmented web page.

The method receives an intelligent tag request from the client computer . As described above with respect to the augmented web page contains client code that monitors user interactions with augmented keywords. In one embodiment if the user moves a pointer e.g. a pointer controlled by a mouse navigation button or touchpad over a mouse over an augmented keyword the activated keyword the client code which may be integrated with the web browser for example as a plug in applet generates an intelligent tag request and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The request indicates the mouse over user activity to the augmentation server . The request may contain information that uniquely identifies the activated keyword e.g. an association ID and or other information such as the activated keyword itself.

The method determines advertisements relevant to the activated keyword for the received request based on the keyword and or the associated reference data. In one embodiment the augmentation server extracts the keyword and or related context from the request retrieves the associated reference data from the reference database and determines the relevant advertisements by searching in an advertisement database using the keyword and or requirements set forth in the associated reference data e.g. advertisement category context fee requirements etc. .

In one embodiment the method determines the advertisements that match the best e.g. matching the activated keyword and or satisfies the most number of reference requirements as the relevant advertisements. In another embodiment the method determines relevant advertisements based on a context of the augmented web page and or the activated keyword. For example for a key phrase digital camera in an article about digital camera the method may determines the following resources as relevant a product review of a digital camera in CNET.com a collection of user reviews at Buy.com and a selection of similar digital cameras. The context can be determined when the activated keyword is identified in method .

In one embodiment the method determines a sequence for the related advertisements. The top advertisement in the sequence also called the default advertisement or the primary advertisement is the advertisement being displayed on the top layer of the layered augmentation. The lower ranked advertisements also called secondary advertisements are made available on lower layers of the layered augmentation. In one embodiment the method uses a bidding system to determine related advertisements sequence. For example for a key phrase digital camera there may be multiple related advertisements e.g. advertisements for different brands or models of digital cameras each having a bid or budget or cost for the key phrase. The method may determine a sequence of the advertisements based on their bids the one with the highest bid ranked the highest and so on.

In another embodiment the method may determine the sequence of multiple advertisements based on factors other than bidding prices. For example the method may consider factors such as relationships among the multiple advertisements e.g. prioritizing video advertisements over text ones prior user interactions with the advertisements e.g. prioritizing advertisements with higher interacting rate and contexts of the augmented keyword e.g. prioritizing advertisements from retailers or service providers having branches near a geographical context of the keyword and or the augmented web page or geographic locations of a substantial portion of viewers of the web page .

Further specific sequences may be set for specific keywords and or parties e.g. content providers advertisers users . For example if the keyword s is a music artist or band album name the method may make available his songs e.g. playback through an embedded music player on the top layer and other resources on lower layers. As another example if the keyword s is a location name e.g. Yellowstone National Park the method may make available the relevant map e.g. MapQuest Map on the top layer. As noted above the resources made available through the layered augmentation need not to be advertisements and can be related contents such as related articles videos images music to name only a few. For example a content provider may specify that the layered augmentations in its web pages make available a set of links to its other relevant web pages e.g. within the same website where the keyword s being augmented is cross indexed.

In one embodiment viewers can set their preferences to determine a preferred sequence for the layered augmentation. For example a viewer may prefer video advertisements while another may disfavor them e.g. due to bandwidth constrains at receiving device . As a result the method may place video advertisements higher on a sequence for the first viewer while not consider video advertisements for augmentation for the second viewer. Viewer preferences can be stored in a database such as the reference database along with other viewer related data e.g. profile data .

The method transmits the relevant advertisements to the client computer for display. In one embodiment the method retrieves the advertisements from an advertisement database and transmits them to the client web browser or the client computer for display. Alternatively the method may transmit references of the advertisements e.g. their URLs to the client web browser for retrieval.

In one embodiment the method generates computer code hereinafter called the advertisement code to facilitate user interaction with the advertisements. Similar to the client code the advertisement code can be in any computer language such as JavaScript. The advertisement code may display the relevant advertisements in a multi layered dialog box or popup box when the viewer moves a pointer over the activated keyword. The method transmits the generated advertisement code along with the related advertisements to the client web browser. In one embodiment the advertisement code is a part of the client code and is integrated in the augmented web page when the page is generated.

The client web browser displays the relevant advertisements in a layered dialog box proximate to the activated keywords or the position where the mouse over is occurring as an in page overlay. In one embodiment the client web browser utilizes the advertisement code to display the advertisements in a multi layered dialog box. The advertisements are displayed according to their sequence. In one embodiment only the top advertisement is displayed and the lower ranked advertisements are represented by selectable tabs. An example process of the operation of the advertisement code and the client code is described in detail below with respect to .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an example process or method of the client code and or the advertisement code. As illustrated the method determines whether a pointer is positioned over an augmented keyword the activated keyword and if so sets the primary advertisement as the active advertisement and displays the active advertisement in a multi layered dialog box overlaying the augmented web page in a position proximate to the activated keyword or the mouse over. The multi layered dialog box also displays multiple selectable e.g. clickable tabs representing the lower layers. The viewer can select a tab to request the multi layered dialog box to display the corresponding layer. If the user selected a tab the method sets the advertisement corresponding to the selected layer as the active advertisement and displays it in place of the previously displayed advertisement.

The viewer can also interact with the currently displayed advertisement by selecting the advertisement. If the viewer selects the advertisement the method responds to the user selection based on the nature of the user selection and the configuration of the advertisement. For example if the user clicks on the active advertisement the method redirects the web browser to a web page related to the active advertisement. Alternatively if the user drags a scrollbar displayed on the dialog box the method displays different portions of the active advertisement as the user drags along the scrollbar. In one embodiment if the viewer moves the pointer away from the activated keyword and or the multi layered dialog box for an extended period of time the method hides the dialog box.

Referring back to in one embodiment rather than displaying multiple advertisements the method displays multiple aspects or portions of the same advertisement in the multi layered dialog box. For example the multi layered dialog box may display an image and brief description of a product and present two tabs one for user reviews and the other for playback of a television advertisement of the product. The viewer may interact with the advertisement through the multi layered dialog box without having to navigate away from and otherwise leave the current web page the viewer is interacting with in the web browser. For example if the advertisement contains video the multi layered dialog box may overlay the video with video controls e.g. forward rewind play pause volume etc. . The multi layered dialog box may also provide functional resources such as web searches enabling viewers to conduct web searches and or review search results without leaving the augmented web page.

The method tracks the received requests the advertisements displays and or the user s interactions with the advertisements. These activities may be logged in a database e.g. the reference database or reported to another device or person e.g. via electronic mail .

The methods described above with respect to are illustrated below in an example together with accompanying screenshots in . Initially the augmentation server retrieves a web page for augmentation. The web page may contain textual content of any subject. shows an example of the web page as displayed in Microsoft Internet Explorer . As shown in the web page is retrieved from website www.computing.net and contains a paragraph about computer virus.

The augmentation server reads the web page for keywords. The augmentation server identifies the keyword security for layered augmentation. The augmentation server locates a piece of reference data matching the keyword security and determines a context of computer security for the keyword . The piece of reference data includes an advertisement category for computer security services. The augmentation server generates an association of the keyword security and the located piece of reference data.

The augmentation server augments the web page by generating an intelligent tag encoding the generated association and integrating the intelligent tag in an augmented web page . The augmentation server also includes in the augmented web page JavaScript code client code that captures user interactions with the augmented keyword .

A web browser running on a client computer retrieves the augmented web page and displays it to a user e.g. responding to the user entering an URL of the web page or in the address bar of the web browser . illustrates a screenshot of the augmented web page as displayed on an Internet Explorer web browser after it is retrieved by the browser. It is noted that in the augmented keyword is displayed in a double underline style to distinguish from conventional hyperlinks that are single underlined.

Subsequently the user may move a pointer e.g. controlled by a mouse stylus or touchpad over the double underlined augmented keyword the activated augmented keyword . This user action is also referred to as a mouse over. Detecting the mouse over the embedded JavaScript code the client code in the augmented web page or the web browser generates an intelligent tag request that uniquely identifies the activated augmented keyword and or the related context and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The augmentation server receives the request retrieves stored association of the keyword and determines relevant advertisements by searching for advertisements corresponding to the keyword and or the related context in an advertising database. In the present example the augmentation server determines that an advertisement for Cisco security center is the relevant advertisement associated with the augmented keyword .

The augmentation server determines a sequence of various parts of the Cisco advertisement and or other relevant advertisements. In the present example the augmentation server determines that a description of the Cisco security center ranks top in the sequence followed by its customer reviews and a list of competing services.

The augmentation server transmits the related advertisement s back to the web browser for display. The augmentation server also transmits JavaScript code advertisement code that enables layered representation of the transmitted advertisements.

The web browser or the advertisement code displays the received advertisement s as an overlay in a multi layered dialog box in proximity to the keyword or the location where the mouse over occurred. As illustrated in the user has moved a mouse pointer over the keyword . As a result the web browser receives advertisements related to the keyword security and displays them in a multi layered dialog box proximate to the pointer.

As illustrated the multi layered dialog box displays an advertisement about CISCO security center. On the bottom of the multi layered dialog box are two tabs labeled Click to view customer review and Click to view alternative services respectively. Note that this is consistent with the sequence of the advertisements and or advertisement portions determined by the augmentation server . The user can navigate the advertisements within the multi layered dialog box by clicking the labeled tabs. The user can also visit the corresponding advertiser s web page by clicking the advertisement. While the user navigates within the multi layered dialog box the augmented web page remains as the current web page displayed in the client web browser. The user can quickly resume browsing the rest of the augmented web page .

As illustrated in when the user clicks or mouse over the tab labeled Click to view customer review the multi layered dialog box displays customer reviews for Cisco security center. It is noted that the label on the tab representing customer review changes to Click to hide customer review. The user can click the tab to resume viewing the previous advertisement for Cisco security center.

As illustrated in when the user clicks the Cisco security center advertisement the advertisement code redirects the client web browser to the advertiser s web page in this case a web page related to Cisco security center.

In one embodiment the augmentation server delivers rich media content without augmenting web pages ahead of time. The augmentation server or other entities may install a plug in module in the client web browser. The plug in module monitors the client s browsing activity and transmits related information e.g. the URL of the displayed web page to the augmentation server in real time or on the fly . The augmentation server may retrieve the web page and analyze it for keywords and or related contexts in real time. The augmentation server transmits the information e.g. the identified keywords to the client web browser. If the user mouse over one of the identified keywords the activated keyword the plug in module sends a signal to the augmentation server identifying the activated keyword. The augmentation server may determine and transmit relevant advertisements to the client web browser for display in a manner similar to the one described above with respect to .

In another embodiment the web pages can be augmented on the client side e.g. via plug in modules in the client web browser in a manner similar to the one described above with respect to .

In another embodiment in addition to augmenting keywords and phrases the present invention can augment non textual content e.g. image video and or overlay layered augmentation on content elements such as images and videos. For example the metadata associated with an image or video can be examined to determine keywords and or contexts related to the subject matter of the image. The present invention can augment the image with layered augmentation in a manner similar to the one described above with respect to and B. The layered augmentation can include a set of tabbed overlays and once engaged with can display appropriate advertising message or other alternate content on top of the image.

One of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the described system and method are not limited to augmenting keywords in web pages with advertisements and can be applied to augment any types of visual elements in any types of documents with any types of rich media content. Examples and detailed descriptions of an approach to augment still images on web pages with relevant additional information are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 033 539 U.S. Pat. No. 7 853 558 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Advantages of the disclosed embodiments include providing content providers with additional channels for delivering relevant advertisements and other content to viewers. Because the relevant resources are presented in a multi layered dialog box viewers can access more relevant resources in a well organized manner. Because the augmented data is displayed as an overlay of the current web page the disclosed embodiments in essence establish a third dimension e.g. a z axis to present information the first and second dimensions being the length e.g. a x axis and width e.g. a y axis of the web page enabling viewers to access additional relevant content without leaving the current web page. This feature is beneficial for devices with limited screen space for example mobile computing devices e.g. handheld computers or conventional computer screens having many active windows that are simultaneously displayed. The disclosed embodiments also enhance viewers web browsing experience by providing relevant content overlays without the need to leave their current web page to augment the information to provide for a user.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithmic processes or operations. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs comprising instructions for execution by a processor or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of functional operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosure. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for augmenting content in web pages with relevant resources through layered augmentation. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims.

