---

title: Quantum chemistry simulations using optimization methods
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide, among other things, methods, apparatus, and systems for tuning a semiempirical process for predicting energy for different molecular configurations. In an example method, an energy value and an energy gradient are determined for each of a plurality of molecular configurations using an accurate method. A functional form of the semiempirical process is optimized using the determined energy values and energy gradients via multiobjective optimization. The functional form relates one or more parameters to energy values and energy gradients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301390&OS=08301390&RS=08301390
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08301390
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080131
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 898 952 filed Jan. 31 2007 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

The present invention was made with Government assistance under Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR Grant No. FA9550 06 1 0096 and National Science Foundation NSF Grant No. DMR 03 25939. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates generally to the fields of simulations analysis and predictions for chemical biological biochemical pharmaceutical and or physical phenomena. The invention further relates generally to the field of optimization methods.

Photochemical reactions are fundamental in many biological e.g. photosynthesis and vision and technological e.g. solar cells and light emitting diode LED displays settings. Such reactions as well as many spectroscopic measurements involve electronic excited states of molecules and their concomitant structural changes. The reactions and associated dynamics are energetically subtle and require highly accurate descriptions of the relevant molecular forces. It is highly desirable in the art to be able to simulate and predict results for these and other types of reactions. One exemplary benefit of simulating and predicting reactions is to limit the amount of real world experimental reactions needed. For example this may avoid useless chemical combinations and may provide new combinations not previously considered. However conventional simulation and prediction methods have been inadequate for several reasons.

Reliable methods for prediction are computationally very expensive even for small molecular reactions and rapidly approach the impossible for reactions in complex environments such as in solvents e.g. water in solid cages e.g. zeolites or with more complex molecules such as proteins e.g. protein ion channels . Hence having very fast semiempirical potentials that accurately reproduce higher level quantum chemistry results would make it possible to address critical biological processes and technologically useful chemical reactions or dramatically reduce searches for potentially technologically useful light activated reactions.

Established semiempirical quantum chemistry methods known by acronyms such as MNDO AM1 and PM3 with well established parameter databases and software such as MOPAC MOLCAS and MOLPRO have had parameter sets hand designed and optimized to predict ground state energies not excited state energies. For ethylene for example AM1 or PM3 parameter sets incorrectly obtain a pyramidalized structure as the lowest energy excited state. Thus the carefully established parameter sets yield inaccurate potential energy surfaces and unphysical reaction dynamics. Further previous reoptimization attempts to improve excited state potential energy surfaces have met with limited success.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things methods apparatus and systems for tuning a semiempirical process for predicting energy for different molecular configurations. In an example method an energy value and an energy gradient are determined for each of a plurality of molecular configurations using an accurate method. A functional form of the semiempirical process is optimized using the determined energy values and energy gradients via multiobjective optimization. The functional form relates one or more parameters to energy values and energy gradients.

A comprehensive understanding of the photochemistry of molecules requires bridging the gap between molecular dynamics and quantum chemistry. Quantum dynamic simulations require simultaneous solution of both nuclear and electronic Schrodinger equations. Additionally the potential energy surfaces PES must be of high quality and very robust because the portions of the PES that are critical to the behavior of a molecule may be far removed from the Franck Condon region the directly excited state portion of the PES .

The ab initio multiple spawning AIMS method has been developed to address such problems. While the AIMS method is extremely flexible and accurate for example it can describe quantum mechanical phenomena such as tunneling and non adiabatic transitions it is computationally very expensive especially for large molecules due to the large number of ab initio electronic structure calculations involved making long time dynamics simulations highly improbable if not impossible.

Thus having substantially faster semiempirical methods that accurate reproduce higher level quantum chemistry results would make it possible to address critical biological processes and technologically useful chemical reactions. To retain the flexibility of ab initio methods with less computational cost semiempirical methods that ignore some integrals of ab initio methods and use fit parameters for others were developed. Instead of calculating each electron integral semiempirical methods make certain approximations. For example many two electron integrals those on three or four centers are neglected assumed to be zero . Further the remaining one and two electron integrals are replaced with analytic functions that depend on a set of parameters. Semiempirical methods are significantly less expensive than AIMS but have an accuracy that depends of the accuracy of the semiempirical parameters. The semiempirical parameters which are different for each element have traditionally been hand designed and optimized for a small set of molecules without the use of fractional occupation molecular orbitals. Such parameters predict ground state properties for a set of molecules but not excited state energies.

For example standard parameter sets in quantum chemistry databases known by acronyms such as MNDO AM1 and PM3 and software yield useful information concerning ground state energies the locations of the minimal energy conical intersections MECIs which often dominate photochemical reactions. However they often fail to yield globally accurate potential energy surfaces critical for accurate photochemical reaction simulation. AM1 parameter sets in ethylene for example incorrectly obtain the so called pyramidalized structure as the excited state minimum. These carefully established parameter sets often yield inaccurate potential energy surfaces resulting in unphysical excited state reaction dynamics.

Therefore to obtain globally accurate energetics the parameter sets must be reoptimized for different classes of molecules using a very limited set of ab initio and or experimental data. This so called reparametrization strategy is a promising way to extend direct dynamics simulations of photochemistry to more realistic multi picosecond time scales. It is also reasonable to expect transferability of the parameter sets optimized on simple molecules such as ethylene and benzene to other complex molecules such as stilbene and phenylacetylene dendrimers. Furthermore the reparametrization approach opens up the possibility of accurate simulations of photochemistry in complex environments such as proteins and condensed phases.

The reoptimization problem is massively multimodal and involves multiple conflicting and competing objectives such as minimizing the difference between calculated and predicted energies gradients of energies and stationary point geometries. Conventional reparameterization methods mostly based on a staged fixed weight single objective optimization have only been partially successful as the weights of different objectives often are unknown and local search can get stuck in low quality optima. Particularly such methods have not yielded globally correct PES and have produced unphysical dynamics.

Evolutionary algorithms on the other hand are robust search methods that simultaneously optimize multiple objectives and thus are particularly suited for rapid reparameterization of semiempirical parameters. Thus embodiments of the invention provide among other things the use of multiobjective optimization methods such as multiobjective evolutionary algorithms including multiobjective genetic algorithms MOGA for rapid reparameterization of semiempirical methods to obtain globally correct excited state dynamics. Moreover unlike single objective optimization methods multiobjective evolutionary algorithms can process a number of solutions in parallel and find all or a majority of the diverse Pareto optimal solutions avoiding potentially irrelevant and unphysical pathways. This approach bridges high level quantum chemistry and semiempirical methods providing an accurate representation of complex molecular excited state and ground state behavior.

While the reparameterization procedure only fits energetics of a few important stationary molecular geometries much larger portions of the PESs will be accessed during dynamics simulations. Therefore preferred semiempirical methods should incorporate enough of the fundamental chemical physics to generate at least qualitatively correct global PESs. While it is possible to include geometries and energetics of the MECIs in the reparameterization the strategy of using relatively little ab initio data as a nonlimiting example less than 0.1 of the possible configurations is crucial if reparameterization is to be applicable for larger molecules where ab initio data is extremely expensive to obtain. Therefore example methods of the present invention deliberately use a minimal set of energies and gradients at ground state optimized geometries in reparameterization.

MOGAs can be used to reoptimize the parameter sets using a very limited set of known accurate data e.g. ab initio and experimental data to yield globally accurate potential energy surfaces and excited states providing accurate photochemical reaction dynamics. Use of MOGA for example can provide accuracy well beyond convention methods or expectation of human experts. Additionally a dramatic reduction e.g. from 100 to 1000 times in computation cost can be achieved. This allows for example simulations for more complex molecules which may be impractical or even impossible for methods such as AIMS.

In exemplary embodiments of the present invention a method for tuning a semiempirical process for predicting energy for different molecular configurations includes determining an energy value for each of a plurality of molecular configurations using an accurate method such as AIMS or use of experimental results. As a nonlimiting example a number of snapshots may be taken for different configurations using AIMS. In some exemplary embodiments this provides very accurate snapshots but only for very few points. One or more functional forms of a semiempirical process are optimized using the determined energy values. Such functional forms preferably relate one or more parameters to energy values. Preferably optimizing the functional forms includes optimizing the one or more parameters based on the determined energy values.

In preferred methods at least one energy gradient is also determined for each of a plurality of molecular configurations using the accurate method. In this case optimization further includes optimizing the one or more parameters based on the determined at least one energy gradient. In this way both the energy and the energy gradient can be addressed by optimizing the parameters using multiobjective optimization methods. In exemplary embodiments one or more parameters are optimized to minimize differences error between calculated and predicted energies and gradients of energies. Such multiobjective optimization may include for example multiobjective genetic algorithms MOGA which can provide Pareto optimal solutions. Thus one can optimize with different weights providing a plurality of sets of parameters that is multiple solutions . Other objectives such as geometries e.g. stationary point geometries may be considered as well in multiobjective optimization methods. Simulations may be run using the optimized functional forms.

An example process for optimizing a functional form for a semiempirical process given data provided by an accurate method is shown in . Generally a functional form is provided either by selecting a previously provided function or by evolving a function for example by genetic programming GP . Evolving a functional form may occur with or without prior problem knowledge. An example method for evolving a functional form using GP uses techniques similar to that described in Sastry Johnson Goldberg and Bellon Genetic Programming for Multiscale Modeling International Journal for Multiscale Computational Engineering 2 2 239 256 2004 and Sastry Johnson Goldberg and Bellon Genetic Programming for Multitimescale Modeling Physical Review B 72 085438 2005 . These two publications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Given a functional form parameters used in the functional form are selected for reparameterization. Each of these parameters forms a decision variable for a search problem so that a solution is made up of a string of the decision variables. More particularly the decision variables are encoded into finite length strings of alphabets of certain cardinality. Such strings are also referred to as chromosomes the alphabets are referred to as genes and the values of genes are referred to as alleles. In an exemplary embodiment real valued encoding is used though other types of coding binary gray permutation program etc. are also contemplated. Problem knowledge may be used as needed or desired to select parameters.

Next to evolve good solutions and implement natural selection a fitness measure is provided which considers predicted energies and energy gradients compared to energies and energy gradients determined using the accurate method. Fitness may be objective subjective or co evolutionary but it is preferred that the fitness evaluation be objective. Generally it is also preferred that the parameter sets be optimized for a particular system and that the sets are fit to only a few important geometries for the molecule. The overall goal is to maintain an accurate description of ground state properties and yield a globally accurate PES including excited states.

In an example multiobjective genetic algorithm multiple fitness functions are used a first function minimizing the error between the predicted energy for a particular configuration and the energy determined using the accurate method and a second function minimizing the error between the predicted energy gradient for a particular configuration and the energy gradient determined using the accurate method. The number of configurations preferably are a very limited set of excited state and ground state configurations determined using the accurate method. Also the fitness functions e.g. the energy error fitness function can consider the difference between the predicted geometry and the geometry determined using the accurate method.

Unlike some conventional methods these multiple fitness functions are not combined to provide a single objective such as by providing a priori weights to each of the fitness functions and combining them. This is because the correct weights are usually not known a priori and it is easy for a local search to get stuck in low quality optima. Instead embodiments of the present invention employ a multiobjective optimization given the multiple fitness functions.

Given the functional form the selection of parameters and the multiple fitness functions the example method then evolves a plurality of solutions to the search problem. An example process for evolving solutions is shown in . First the population is initialized by selecting a population size and generating an initial population. Selecting a population size may be done as a nonlimiting example using population sizing models which are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The population may be initialized randomly and or according to particular criteria such as criteria based on knowledge of the problem closeness to existing parameters e.g. existing parameter sets etc.

Once the population is initialized or an offspring population is created in later steps the fitness values of the candidate solutions are evaluated . This may be done for example using the multiple fitness functions provided.

Selection takes place for the example multiobjective genetic algorithm preferably based on survival of the non dominated . Particularly preferred embodiments use non dominated sorting to assign domination ranks to individuals in the population based on their multiple objective values. A candidate solution x may dominate y for example if x is no worse than y in all objectives and if x is better than y in at least one objective. By assigning all non dominated solutions a low rank assigning non dominated solutions among the remaining solutions a next highest rank and so on subsets of the population with different ranks are provided. This criteria is used to converge onto the Pareto optimal solutions the best non dominated set of solutions .

Another and preferably secondary selection criteria that may be used is diversity or crowding distance i.e. how dense the non dominated Pareto front is in the neighborhood of the solution. Considering this criteria allows one to achieve good coverage or spread of solutions in the Pareto front to maintain as diverse a distribution as possible.

Given the domination ranking and the crowding distance the solutions can be selected for a mating pool for evolving new solutions. An exemplary selection process is s wise tournament selection without replacement. However it will be appreciated that other selection processes are possible. The selection between solutions in the tournament may be based on a combination of the domination ranking and the crowding distance preferably with the domination ranking having priority in selection. For example the domination ranking may be used to first consider among solutions in a tournament with the crowding distance used to select among solutions having the same domination rank. The selection preferably takes place until the mating pool has the same number of solutions chromosomes as the initial population.

The mating pool is then used to create new offspring . This may be done by recombination and or mutation as is known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Recombination combines parental traits to create offspring while mutation slightly modifies an offspring. The result will be a new and possibly better solution that is not identical to any particular parent. Various methods for recombination and mutation are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and the invention is not to be limited to particular methods of recombination and or mutation. It will also be appreciated that particular methods of recombination and or mutation lend themselves well to efficiency enhancements.

The offspring population created by selection recombination and mutation replaces the original parental population . Elitism in which the best solutions from the parent and offspring population are retained for the next generation and are used to evolve new candidate solutions may be used. The evolutionary process is then repeated until one or more stopping criteria are met .

Once stopping criteria are met the example optimization method provides a plurality of Pareto optimal solutions. Additional criteria may be used to select solutions from among the evolved Pareto optimal solutions. Such criteria may include but is not limited to 1 sensitivity to small perturbations 2 ability to yield accurate excited and ground state energies for untested and critical configurations and or 3 ability to yield accurate excited state dynamics.

For example robustness of a particular parameter set may be analyzed. Small changes in the parameters e.g. 0.1 or less should have small effects on the error in energy and the error in gradient. In an example manual evaluation method a small number e.g. 10 parameter sets around each optimized parameter set may be selected and error in energy and energy gradient may be calculated for each set. Points sets having large RMSE values as a nonlimiting example above 0.05 eV for error in energy and above 0.008 eV Ang for error in energy gradient can be removed as being too sensitive.

The GA population also contains data that can be mined e.g. for sensitivity or parameter sets. Analysis of quality of solutions around the Pareto optimal sets yields a good measure of the SE parameter stability. More perturb points in the MOGA analysis indicates higher reliability.

An example method for checking the ability to yield accurate excited state dynamics includes determining a population transfer using a limited number e.g. 20 of initial conditions for each parameter set. Parameter sets with lower error in energy gradient values have lifetimes close to ab initio value.

Given the selected solutions simulations can be carried out . Particularly using the optimized semiempirical methods one or more molecular configurations e.g. coordinates may be input to the resulting functions to determine an energy and energy gradient.

A nonlimiting example method described herein reparameterizes two simple molecules which are fundamental building blocks of organic molecules ethylene and benzene. The photochemistry of ethylene has been studied as a prototype for cis trans isomerization. The small size of ethylene has many advantages. First semiempirical calculations can be run very quickly so a large number of reparameterization runs can be conducted. Second the small number of atoms basis functions and possible geometries imply that the results may be less complex and more easily interpretable. Lastly the size and simplicity enables the reoptimized parameter sets to be amenable for further analysis of ethylene dynamics and for transferability to stilbene or conjugated polyenes. However despite its simplicity ethylene has an associated set of ethylidene geometries that can be used to evaluate performance of the reoptimized parameter sets in calculations for which they were not optimized. Benzene plays an important role in photochemistry and photophysics of aromatic system and has been extensively studied both experimentally and theoretically.

For ethylene reparameterization the example method uses energetics for the ground state planar and ethylidene geometries twisted geometry on the excited state as well as the gradients on the excited and ground states. The ab initio results used for reparameterization are taken from previously reported calculations Ben Nun Martinez Photodynamics of ethylene Ab initio studies of conical intersections Chemical Physics 259 237 248 and are calculated using CASSCF 2 6 SDCI wavefunctions with the aug cc pVDZ basis set. For reparameterization of benzene we use four important local minima on S planar Dewar benzene prefulvene and benzvalene. We use ab initio calculations and experimental results reported in and used by Toniolo Thompson and Martinez Excited state direct dynamics of benzene with reparameterized multireference semiempirical configuration interaction methods Chemical Physics 304 133 145 2004 .

A floating occupation molecular orbital configuration interaction FOMO CI calculation is used to describe electronic excited states. The molecular orbitals are optimized using an SCF calculation in which the occupation numbers of some of the orbitals are allowed to fluctuate. These occupation numbers are updated at each SCF iteration according to

To calculate the excited state properties multiple configurations need to be included in the wavefunction. Using the floating occupation molecular orbitals we use a complete active space configuration interaction CAS CI wavefunction. In this technique all the configurations that involve excitations within the active orbitals defined in the calculation are included. The energies of each of the configurations are calculated using the fractionally occupied orbitals but the orbitals are not reoptimized at each step.

The semiempirical calculations are performed with a developmental version of MOPAC2000 while the ab initio results are performed with MOLPRO and MolCas. For both ethylene and benzene 11 semiempirical parameters for carbon U U G G G Gand H are reoptimized. A real valued encoding is used to represent the parameters. Following some earlier methods the core core repulsion parameters a b and c are not reoptimized.

The reparameterization of the semiempirical methods involve multiple objectives and yield a set of optimal solutions also known as Pareto optimal solutions instead of a single optimal solution. Since no one Pareto optimal solution is better than the other without additional information or decision making choice the goal of multi objective optimization is to search for all Pareto optimal solutions. Traditional approaches for handling multi objective problems usually convert multiple objectives into single objective problems by using a priori weights denoting the relative importance of the different objectives. Such approaches rely on multiple runs of single objective optimization with different weights to obtain different Pareto optimal solutions. However the choice of weights is a non trivial task and uniform coverage of the Pareto optimal front is usually improbable sometimes impossible and the methods are usually inefficient and less robust.

On the other hand population based approaches using genetic and evolutionary algorithms can directly deal with multiple objectives and simultaneously maintain a diverse set of solutions. Therefore genetic algorithms can be used to find multiple Pareto optimal solutions in a single simulation run. The Pareto optimal solutions can be exploited to select solutions appropriate for each particular application without having to weigh the objectives in advance or reduce the multiple objectives in some way.

As known by those of ordinary skill in the art genetic algorithms GAs encode the decision variables into finite length strings of alphabets of certain cardinality. The strings which are candidate solutions are referred to as chromosomes the alphabets are referred to as genes and the values of genes are called alleles. An exemplary method uses a real valued encoding to represent the 11 parameters of the semiempirical methods. In this example an upper and a lower bound are specified around the PM3 value for each semiempirical parameter and a real value between the specified bounds represents a possible semiempirical value. Therefore a chromosome in this example consists of 11 real valued genes corresponding to each of the 11 semiempirical parameters. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that other representations such as binary gray permutation real number program functions etc. are possible.

To evolve good solutions and to implement natural selection GAs rely on a notion of fitness or a relative goodness measure of a candidate solution. Generally fitness can be objective subjective co evolutionary etc. The two fitness functions used in this example involve minimizing the absolute error in energies and energy gradients respectively for a very limited set of excited state and ground state configurations either calculated by ab initio methods or obtained by experiments and those predicted by semiempirical methods. That is 

For ethylene we make the restriction that the excited state at the ground state planar geometry must have the correct state symmetry. For benzene in the first objective we also include geometry difference between the reparameterized semiempirical geometries and the ab initio geometries G by calculating the sum squared differences between the corresponding atoms after the molecules have been rotated and translated such that they are in maximum coincidence. Eand Erepresent the excited state energy gradients using ab initio and semiempirical methods respectively. The semiempirical calculations are done within a development version of MOPAC2000 using a CAS 2 2 CI wavefunction. All geometries are minimized and then energy gradients are calculated at this minimum on the potential energy surface.

Once the problem is encoded in a chromosomal manner and a fitness measure for discriminating good solutions from bad ones has been chosen we can start to evolve solutions to the search problem. The initial population of candidate solutions is usually generated randomly across the search space. However domain specific knowledge or other information can be easily incorporated in the generation of the initial population. In this example reparameterization of semiempirical potentials the initial population is randomly generated within a certain percentage 20 50 of the PM3 parameter values. The parameter bounds are restricted around the PM3 set so as to maintain a reasonable representation of the ground state potential energy surface.

The multiobjective GA used in this example is the non dominated sorting genetic algorithm II NSGA II with binary s 2 tournament selection without replacement simulated binary crossover SBX which models the behavior of single point crossover in binary genetic algorithms with 5 and crossover probability p 0.9 and a polynomial mutation with 10 and mutation probability p 0.1. The population size n 800 is determined in accordance with population sizing models as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Once the population is initialized or an offspring population is created the fitness values of the candidate solutions are evaluated. Non dominated sorting assigns domination ranks to individuals in the population based on their multiple objective values. A candidate solution x dominates y if x is no worse than y in all objectives and if x is better than y in at least one objective. For example as shown in solution B is preferred and dominates solution C whereas solutions A and B are non dominant.

In an example non dominated sorting method we start with the set of solutions that are not dominated by any solution in the population and assign them rank . Next solutions that are not dominated by any of the remaining solutions are assigned rank . That is all solutions with rank are dominated by at least one solution with rank but are not dominated by others in the population. Thus the sorting and ranking process continues by assigning increasing ranks to those solutions that are not dominated by any of the remaining unranked solutions. After non dominated sorting we are left with subsets of population with different ranks. An example of this sorting for a two objective minimization problem is shown in . Solutions with a given rank are not dominated by solutions that have the same rank or higher and are dominated by at least one solution with a lower rank. Therefore with respect to Pareto optimality solutions with lower ranks should be given priority.

Apart from finding solutions in the Pareto front it is also preferred to achieve good coverage or spread of solutions in the front to maintain as diverse a distribution as possible. The diversity of solutions in the objective space is usually maintained with a niching mechanism and NSGA II uses crowding for doing so. In an example method each solution in the population is assigned a crowding distance which estimates how dense the non dominated front is in the neighborhood of the solution. Therefore the higher the crowding distance of the solution the more diverse the solution is in the non dominated front. For example in solution A is more crowded and hence more diverse than solution B. The pseudocode for computing the crowding distance is outlined below 

The selection process allocates more copies to solutions with better fitness values and thus imposes the survival of the fittest mechanism on the candidate solutions. The main idea of selection is to prefer better solutions to worse ones. Again an example selection process uses a binary s 2 tournament selection without replacement. In tournament selection without replacement with tournament size s s chromosomes are chosen at random without replacement and entered into a tournament against each other. The best fittest individual in the group of s chromosomes wins the tournament and is selected into a mating pool for evolving new solutions. The tournaments are continued until all the individuals in the population have competed once at which point there are exactly n 2 chromosomes in the mating pool where n is the population size the population size being an exact multiple of the tournament size . The entire process is repeated again but this time the competitors in each tournament will be different so that the mating pool has n chromosomes.

As multiple objectives are dealt with the best individual in a tournament is based on the notion of non domination and niching. That is NSGA II uses an individual comparison operator to compare the quality of two solutions and to select the better one. Both the rank and the crowding distance of the two solutions are used in the comparison operator a pseudo code of which is given below. First ranks of the two individuals are considered and the solution with a lower rank is selected. If the two individuals have the same rank then the solution with the highest crowding distance is selected.

Recombination combines bits and pieces of two or more parental solutions to create new possibly better solutions i.e. offspring . There are many ways to accomplish this as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. Achieving competent performance depends on getting the recombination mechanism designed properly but is significant that the offspring under recombination should not be identical to any particular parent and will instead combine parental traits in a novel manner.

In SBX individuals in the mating pool are divided into random pairs and each pair undergoes recombination with a probability p. For each pair participating in the crossover each gene or variable undergoes contracting or expanding crossover operation with a probability 0.5. Therefore for each pair of chromosomes undergoing recombination on an average half of the genes are modified using either contracting or expanding crossover operations. Assuming that the two parents pand precombine to yield offspring cand c let xand xbe the igene value of parents pand prespectively. Without loss of generality assume x x and define a spreading factor

Once is chosen based on the probability density function given by the above equation xand xare given by

While recombination operates on two or more parental chromosomes mutation locally but randomly modifies a solution. Again there are many variations of mutation but these usually involve one or more changes that are made to an individual s trait or traits. In other words mutation performs a random walk in a vicinity of a candidate solution. The example polynomial mutation used is similar to SBX and the only difference is in the computation of polynomial probability. Instead of using genotypic distance between two parents as in SBX the distance between a gene and its corresponding upper or lower bound whichever is closer is considered in computing the contracting and expanding probability distributions. In polynomial mutation for a chromosome participating in mutation each gene or variable undergoes contracting or expanding operation with a probability p.

The offspring population created by selection recombination and mutation replaces the original parental population. An example method uses elitism where the best solutions from the parent and offspring population are retained for the next generation and used to evolve new candidate solutions. In elitist replacement as illustrated in the parent and offspring population are combined. The domination ranks and crowding distances are computed on the combined population. Individuals with increasing ranks are gradually added starting from those with the lowest rank into the new population until its size reaches to n. However if it is not possible to add all the solutions belonging to a particular rank without increasing the population size to greater than n individuals with greater crowding distances are preferred.

After replacement the evolutionary process is repeated until one or more stopping criteria are met. The goal is to converge onto the Pareto optimal solutions the best non dominated set . Based on convergence studies we run NSGA II for a maximum of 100 generations.

The invention was tested with experimental simulation. The results demonstrated the effectiveness of using multiobjective genetic algorithms in rapid reparameterization of semiempirical methods for ethylene and benzene. To evaluate the results population sizing and run duration requirements were estimated and then the performance of the evolutionary approach in predicting globally accurate PESs specifically on critical and untested excited states was compared with previously published results and with single objective optimization.

Since the fitness calculations for ethylene are reasonably fast the population sizing and run duration requirements were first verified using a limited number of NSGA II runs. To verify population sizing requirements five independent runs of NSGA II with a population size of 2000 for 200 generations were run. The best non dominated set out of those five runs was used as an approximation of the true Pareto optimal front which contains 61 distinct solutions. Using a population size model for niching Mahfoud Population size and genetic drift in fitness sharing Foundations of Genetic Algorithms 3 185 224 1994 the population size required to maintain at least one copy of each of the Pareto optimal points with a probability of 0.98 is computed to be 750. To verify this estimate 10 independent runs of NSGA II with population sizes between 50 800 were run with a fixed number of function evaluations of 80 000 for each run. The performance of NSGA II with different population sizes is shown in . As also shown in while NSGA II with population sizes below 800 are unable to converge to the approximate Pareto optimal front NSGA II with a population size of 800 discovers almost all the Pareto optimal points.

The convergence rate of NSGA II and the run duration requirements for reparameterization were also considered. Specifically ten independent runs of NSGA II with a population size of 800 were run and the evolution of the best non dominated front at different generations of the evolutionary process was considered. The results are shown in . The results show that reasonably good quality solutions start appearing as early as the tenth generation and the solution quality improves at a steady pace until about twenty five generations and gradually up to about 100 generations. After about 100 generations the improvement in solution quality was found to be minimal.

Based on population sizing and run duration requirements in the remainder of the results a population size of 800 and run duration of 100 generations are used. Since the number of decision variables semiempirical parameters remains the same with different molecules involving carbon and hydrogen the population sizing and run duration estimates should hold for the reparameterization of semiempirical parameters for those molecules as well. However it should be noted that the evaluation time increases with the complexity of the molecule under consideration.

Next the performance and efficiency of multiobjective optimization to that of single objective optimization is compared. A weighted sum of the two objectives is taken to convert the multiple objectives into a single objective that has to be minimized 1 where fand fare as given in the above fitness equations respectively and is the weighting factor. To potentially obtain different Pareto optimal solutions 20 different values for ranging from 0.05 to 1.0 with steps of 0.05 were used. The selection recombination and mutation operators and their parameters were kept identical to those of the multiobjective GA.

For the multiobjective GA a population size of 800 and a run duration of 100 generations are used. Thirty independent GA runs are conducted and the best set of results out of the 30 runs are reported. shows the best non dominated front after 100 generations for ethylene compared to previous results Owens Theoretical studies of the salvation dynamics and photochemistry of ethylene retinal protonated Schiff base oligocellulose and Gd III clusters Doctoral dissertation University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign Department of Chemistry Urbana Ill. 2004 . Therefore for the example multiobjective GA we use a total of 800 100 30 2 400 000 function evaluations.

For the single objective GA for each of the 20 values of a population size of 100 and a run duration of 50 generations are used. As with multiobjective GA results the best result out of 30 independent single objective runs are reported. Therefore for single objective GA used was a total of 100 50 30 20 3 000 000 function evaluations. That is the single objective GA runs use 20 more function evaluations than the multiobjective runs. Moreover the population size and run durations settings are consistent with previous reparameterization studies using single objective GAs. The best non domination set obtained by the multiobjective GA is compared to results of single objective GA in . The results show that the solutions obtained through multiobjective optimization are consistently superior both in terms of error in energy and energy gradient than the single objective GA results. It can be easily seen that the single objective optimization does not yield even one solution comparable to those obtained with the multiobjective GA. Using a population size of 800 and run duration of 100 in the single objective GA for four different values of was tried and the results are qualitatively similar. That is even when single objective GA used four times more function evaluations than the multiobjective GA the single objective GA failed to yield solutions comparable to those of the multiobjective GA. These results clearly demonstrate the efficiency of a multiobjective approach to reparameterization of semiempirical parameters as opposed to a single objective optimization approach.

Next the solution qualities provided by the best non dominated front of NSGA II were compared over the current published results of Owens 2004 for ethylene in . As shown the solutions obtained through the example GA are significantly superior both in terms of error in energy and energy gradient than those reported in Owens 2004 . Specifically the example multiobjective GA yields solutions that are 384 lower error in the energy and 32.5 lower error in the energy gradient than the previously published results. Moreover the optimality of the parameter sets representing the best non dominated front has been confirmed with local search and random perturbation methods.

To verify the effectiveness of the multiobjective GA reparameterization on benzene was also tested which is more complex than ethylene. The results for benzene reoptimization are shown in . Similar to the results obtained for ethylene the GA provides significant improvement 46 lower error in the energy and 86.5 lower error in the energy gradient over previously reported results Toniolo 2004 .

For ethylene the example multiobjective GA found a total of 150 unique semiempirical parameter sets on the best non dominated front and for benzene the multiobjective GA found a total of 82 unique semiempirical parameter sets on the best non dominated front. From an optimization point of view all the parameter sets in the best non dominated front are equally good. However from the chemistry perspective this may not be the case and ultimately those semiempirical parameters that yield globally accurate potential energy surface are of interest. Therefore it is desirable to provide parameter sets that 1 are not sensitive to small perturbations 2 yield accurate excited and ground state energies for untested and critical configurations and 3 yield accurate excited state dynamics.

Since two conflicting objectives are being dealt with one can expect that solutions with low errors in energy yield accurate configurational energies and the solutions with low errors in energy gradient yield accurate curvature or shape of the potential energy surface. Of interest is selecting one or more parameter sets that not only yield accurate configurational energies but also yield accurate shape of the potential energy surface.

A preferable property of good quality semiempirical parameter sets is that they should be less sensitive to small perturbations. That is if the reoptimized parameter sets are perturbed it is desirable for the errors in the energy and energy gradient to be similar to those of the Pareto optimal parameter sets. A sensitivity or stability analysis of the parameter sets can be performed for example by considering the errors in energy and energy gradient of randomly perturbed parameter sets around the Pareto optimal parameter sets. If the error in energy and energy gradient of the perturbed parameter sets are greater than some threshold then they are deemed as sensitive. The question then becomes the value of these thresholds.

Standard parameter sets such as PM3 have traditionally been held as robust or stable. Therefore perturbing the PM3 parameter set and analyzing the errors in energy and energy gradient of the parameter sets should provide an idea of what the threshold values should be for determining the stability of the Pareto optimal parameter sets. The PM3 parameter sets were randomly perturbed and over 600 perturbed parameter sets are created such that the parameter values of the perturbed parameter sets are within 2 of the PM3 set. That is the relative distance between every semiempirical parameter in the perturbed set and the PM3 set is less than 0.01 

Here xand x are the values of the iparameter in the PM3 set and perturbed parameter set respectively.

The errors in energy and energy gradient for each of the perturbed parameter sets are computed and are plotted in . The results in show that the RMS deviation in error in energy of the perturbed points from that of PM3 is 0.99 eV. Similarly the RMS deviation in error in energy gradient of the perturbed points from that of PM3 is 0.023 eV A . Therefore threshold values of 0.99 and 0.023 are used for assessing stability of the Pareto optimal sets.

One advantage of using genetic algorithms is that one has a population of candidate solutions that can be used to perform an on line sensitivity analysis of the optimal semiempirical parameter sets. Performing such a sensitivity analysis not only reduces the number of acceptable reoptimized parameter sets but is also more efficient and reliable than a manual stability sensitivity analysis. Thus such an analysis is performed and along with saving the Pareto optimal semiempirical parameter set for each of the Pareto optimal solutions maintained is a list of parameter sets visited during the GA process that are within 2 from that Pareto optimal solution. The RMS deviation in errors in energy and energy gradient can then be computed between the Pareto optimal solution and the parameter sets around it. If both the RMS deviation in error and energy gradient is less than their respective threshold then the Pareto optimal solution is labeled as being stable. On the other hand if either of the deviations is greater than the threshold then the Pareto optimal solution is labeled as sensitive.

As shown in the histogram of for a majority of the Pareto optimal solutions there are sufficient parameter sets within 2 to yield acceptable measure of their sensitivity. Indeed the GA population contains less than 5 parameter sets with 2 of only 6 Pareto optimal solutions. On an average there are 95 and a maximum of 495 parameter sets within 2 of the Pareto optimal solutions. also show the RMS deviations of error in energy and error in energy gradient between the Pareto optimal solutions and the corresponding neighboring parameter sets. The RMS deviation in energy and energy gradient for each of the Pareto optimal solutions is shown in . The online sensitivity analysis reveals that 44 out of 150 Pareto optimal solutions have either RMS deviation in error or energy or RMS deviation in error in energy gradient or both are greater than their respective threshold and therefore are sensitive. The results also show that 100 out of 150 Pareto optimal solutions have both RMS deviations in errors in energy and energy gradient that are below the threshold and thus are considered stable or less sensitive to small perturbations in the parameter values. The parameter sets that are found to be stable via the online sensitive analysis are shown in .

Consider now solutions obtained through the example GA and evaluate their results on energetic calculations for a set of ethylidene geometries for which they were not reoptimized. Previous ab initio work has shown that in addition to the twisting coordinate a coordinate involving the pyramidalization of one of the carbons is also important. Ultrafast pump probe experiments have shown a very fast excited state lifetime for ethylene. Recent theoretical works suggest that the twisted pyramidalized geometry is responsible for the fast non radiative transfer to the ground state through a conical intersection. That is considering certain salient properties of cis trans isomerization of ethylene the ground state for ethylene is a planar structure as shown in . When it is excited the carbon carbon bond twists 90 and decreases in the energy gap from 7.8 eV to 2.5 eV. The twisted geometry however is not an excited state minimum but a saddle point with respect to pyramidalization of one of the carbon atoms. As shown in using the PM3 and AM1 parameters however the pyramidalized geometry is actually higher in energy than the purely twisted geometry on the excited state which is in direct contrast to the results of experiments and high level calculations.

1 Energy differences between planar ethylene ground state Sminimized D and twisted geometry Sminimized D ideal value for which is 2.28 eV as calculated by ab initio methods. If the energy difference between the planar and twisted geometry is less than zero then the excited state minimum would be the planar structure which is erroneous. In other words for good parameter sets the energy difference between the planar and twisted geometry should be greater than zero preferably around 2.28 eV.

2 Energy differences between the twisted geometry Sminimized D and pyramidalized structure ideal value for which is 0.88 eV as calculated by ab initio methods. As shown in the standard semiempirical parameter sets do not capture this feature and therefore this energetics is one of the critical phenomena in determining the quality of the reoptimized parameter sets. If the energy difference between the twisted geometry and the pyramidalized structure is less than zero then the excited state minimum would be the twisted geometry as predicted by standard parameter sets which is inconsistent with ab initio and experimental results. Therefore for good parameter sets the energy difference between the twisted and pyramidalized geometries must be greater than zero preferably around 0.88 eV.

Among the Pareto optimal solutions one would expect those parameter sets with lower error in energy to be able to yield accurate energetics of untested configuration as opposed to those with higher error in energy. The energy differences between planar and twisted geometry and twisted geometry and planarized structure for both the best non dominated sets are shown in along with the corresponding solutions. show that the Pareto optimal solutions with error in energies less than 1.5 eV yield near ideal energies for both excited state transitions. Moreover as shown in the results obtained via multiobjective GA have been shown to be clearly superior to prior results. More importantly the example multiobjective GA optimized parameter sets correctly identify the lowest energy excited state as the pyramidalized structure as opposed to standard semiempirical parameter sets and some of the previously reported reparameterized sets.

The final requirement of good parameter sets from a chemistry perspective is that they yield accurate reaction dynamics simulations. It should be noted that the dynamics are controlled by the shape of the PES. Since error in energy gradient gives a measure of the accuracy of the PES it is reasonable to expect that Pareto optimal solutions with lower error in energy gradient yield accurate dynamics over those with higher error in energy gradient. This expectation was validated by dynamics calculations.

Specifically excited state lifetime was considered and the average time for half the population to transfer from S excited state pyramidalized to S ground state planar following photoexcitation of the gas phase molecule was computed. This phenomenon has been extensively studied using ab initio simulations. The AIMS simulations used multi reference configuration interaction MRCI electronic wavefunctions within a double zeta basis set. The simulations did not include Rydberg basis functions the nuclear dynamics is followed for 0.5 picoseconds and the total dynamics is represented by averaging over results obtained using 10 different representations of the initial wavefunction. Overall approximately 100 nuclear basis functions are spawned during the simulation time. The ab initio results indicate that the average time for half the population to transfer from Sto Sis 180 50 fs.

The dynamics simulations are computed for each of the stable Pareto optimal solutions and compared to the ab initio simulation results. The dynamics results are averaged over 50 independent dynamics simulations and are plotted as a function of error in energy gradient in . The results show that most of the stable Pareto optimal solutions especially those with lower error in energy gradient yield near ideal ab initio quality dynamics results. Moreover the dynamics simulation results for the best solutions obtained via single objective optimization are significantly worse than those obtained via multiobjective optimization. In essence the dynamics simulation results clearly show that the majority of the stable Pareto optimal solutions specifically 85 out of 100 yield dynamic results in agreement with ab initio simulations.

The above results clearly show that multiobjective GA yields multiple semiempirical parameter sets that 1 are stable to small perturbations 2 yield accurate indeed near ideal energetics for untested yet critical excited state configurations and 3 yield dynamics with ab initio accuracy. The subset of Pareto optimal solutions that are stable and produce accurate energies and dynamics are shown in . Combining the results from online sensitivity analysis energetics tests and dynamics simulations reveals that out of the 150 parameter sets in the Pareto optimal front 61 parameter sets are stable and yield accurate configurational energies and dynamics. Interestingly parameter sets that are stable and yield accurate energies and dynamics are not on and around the nose of the Pareto front as one might expect but are slightly to the right of the Pareto front. This is because a slight increase in error in energy leads to an improvement in error in energy gradient which controls the accuracy of dynamics.

It should also be noted that similar to ethylene results for benzene also show that while the standard semiempirical sets yield inaccurate dynamics the example multiobjective GA optimized parameter sets yield results consistent with experiments and ab initio computations. For example the newly optimized parameter sets predict an Slifetime of 100 fs in agreement with previous experiment.

The multiobjective optimization of the semiempirical parameters for ethylene resulted in 61 different optimal parameter sets. depict histograms of the deviation of the 11 semiempirical values from their corresponding PM3 values. The results show that the parameter values with the exception of are very diverse. Understanding the relationship between these optimal stable and accurate semiempirical parameters can yield insights into important energy relations for the given molecule. In addition to yielding physical insights into the excited state energetics if we can determine the relationships between the semiempirical parameters we would have interpretable semiempirical methods.

Another advantage of using multiobjective GA is that the Pareto optimal solutions can be mined to automatically discover the relation between semiempirical parameters. The multiple reoptimized parameter sets of semiempirical methods yield globally correct potential energy surfaces. Therefore the interactions among the parameters can contain important information about the molecules. Understanding these key interactions is helpful to developing a robust multiscaling method. Traditional clustering techniques the model building process of Bayesian optimization algorithm and or symbolic regression via genetic programming can be used to understand the parameter interactions. In a nonlimiting example using the optimal stable and accurate parameter set data the relationship between the semiempirical parameters can be symbolically regressed via genetic programming. Accordingly the 61 Pareto optimal parameter sets that 1 are stable to small perturbations 2 yield accurate configurational energies and 3 yield ab initio quality excited state dynamics are selected. The data is normalized using a z score score

The normalized data is used to evolve relationships between the semiempirical parameters via GP. The following function set F exp is used for all the runs. The terminal set contains an ephemeral random constant and all the semiempirical parameters except the one for which we want to discover the functional relationship. For example if we want to find the relationship between Uand the rest of the semiempirical parameters then the terminal set would consist of T U G G G G H . The output of the candidate program is the normalized value of a semiempirical parameter.

The fitness of a solution is computed as the root mean square error RMSE between the predicted and Pareto optimal value of the semiempirical parameter for which we are evolving the candidate program. In all GP runs a population size of 1000 and run duration of 100 generations were used. For each semiempirical parameter over 100 independent GP runs were computed. The best evolved regression function for each of the independent runs is then simplified using the symbolic math toolbox in MATLAB. The coefficients are then optimized using either linear or non linear regression methods. Generally the results were 

For U 37 out of 113 independent GP runs suggest that Uis linearly proportional to U G and . Moreover all the independent runs suggest a linear relationship between Uand U which is in agreement with previously published analysis.

For U 76 out of 113 independent GP runs suggest that Uis linearly proportional to and G. Additionally 21 independent GP runs suggest that Uis linearly proportional to Uand G. Finally the most accurate least complex relationship is a linear combination of the two most frequently evolved symbolic expressions.

For 38 out of 113 independent GP runs suggest that is linearly proportional to Gand G. Moreover all the independent GP runs indicate a relationship between and G.

For 28 independent GP runs suggest a linear relationship between and Gand G. Additionally 21 independent runs suggest a linear relationship between and Uand G.

For 16 independent GP runs suggest that is related to the product of G and U. However the high RMS error coupled with the majority of independent GP runs yielding very diverse relationships for suggest that does not have a strong relationship with other semiempirical parameters.

For 52 independent GP runs suggest that is directly proportional to . Moreover all independent GP runs indicate a relationship between and .

For G 22 independent GP runs reveal a linear relationship between G Gand and 14 independent GP runs reveal a relationship between G Gand . Moreover a majority of the independent GP runs reveal a relationship between Gand G.

For G 75 independent runs suggest that Gis linearly proportional to and U. Moreover all the independent runs consist of the similar relationship between G and G.

For G 90 independent GP runs reveal that Gis linearly proportional to and G. Indeed the best solutions evolved in all the GP runs contain the above relationship.

For G 29 independent GP runs suggest that Gis linearly proportional to Gand U and 20 independent runs suggest that Gis linearly proportional to Gand . Furthermore all independent GP runs suggest that Gdepends on G.

For H 28 independent GP runs reveal that His related to Gand G. More importantly all the runs indicate that His related to Gand G which is in agreement with previously published analysis.

Though particular example methods are described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the methods used in these examples and that various modifications are possible. For instance an example method uses fixed evolutionary operators that do not adapt linkage which may limit scalability in reparameterizing semiempirical methods for other complex molecules. One class of evolutionary algorithms that might be particularly effective especially for complex molecules may be competent genetic algorithms. Efficient and competent genetic algorithms may be used such as but not limited to the extended compact genetic algorithm eCGA to reoptimize the parameter sets needed to define a useful semiempirical potential for different classes of molecules to yield globally accurate PES excited states and geometries based on a very limited learning data from quality ab initio and or experimental data. Similarly decomposition based design approaches are possible to help successfully design competent and efficient genetic algorithm operators. Significantly such reoptimization preferably is massively multimodal and involves conflicting and competing objectives such as minimizing differences between calculated and predicted energies gradients of energies and stationary point geometries.

Additionally the example optimization method described tunes a potential but it is also contemplated according to alternative embodiments to evolve empirical potentials using genetic programming GP . Thus even if the functional form of the semiempirical process is unknown it may be evolved without problem knowledge. Ab initio methods compute the potential energy surfaces from scratch and are highly accurate but are prohibitively expensive even for small systems. GP may be used to regress symbolically the PES from a limited set of directly calculated points on the PES using an accurate method. Such GP regression provides an inline function for increasing number of active configurations or complexity as a machine learned replacement to the look up table approach. Multiscale modeling requires only relevant information at the appropriate scales.

In an example of this alternative embodiment an inline semiempirical function may be represented by a GP tree generated from a function set of various primitive functions and a terminal set. The primitive functions and or terminal set may be selected at least partially based on problem knowledge though this is not necessary. An ephemeral random constant may also be used as part of the terminal set. Given the appropriate fitness function or functions for evaluating quality of the tree e.g. error between predicted and calculated energy and or energy gradient a semiempirical function may be evolved. Appropriate GP techniques may be employed e.g. tournament selection subtree crossover subtree mutation point mutation as would be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. Further advanced GP features such as but not limited to constrained syntactic structures automatically defined functions etc. may be used. Given this approach it is possible to use a machine learning method to determine accurately and with little information complete details of a potential energy surface and output.

Generally multiobjective genetic algorithms may be used according to example embodiments of the present invention in multiscaling simulations of excited state dynamics in photochemistry. More particularly MOGAs have been used to bridge high level quantum chemistry and semiempirical methods to provide an accurate representation of complex molecular excited state and ground state behavior well beyond previous attempts or expectation of human experts and a dramatic reduction from about 100 to 1000 times in computational cost. Rapid reparameterization of semiempirical methods not only eliminates the need for a full fledged ab initio dynamics simulation which is prohibitively expensive for large molecules but also eliminates drawbacks of semiempirical methods that use standard parameter sets and can yield unphysical dynamics. The results show that the evolutionary approach provides significantly better results for example up to 384 lower error in the energy and 86.5 lower error in the energy gradient than those of conventional methods. Furthermore example methods provide a large number of parameter sets all of which yield globally accurate PESs and physical dynamics.

For multiscaling excited state direct dynamics of photochemistry it is useful to obtain high quality reoptimized semiempirical parameters that are transferable to other complex molecules containing similar properties as ethylene and benzene. For example the reoptimized parameter sets for ethylene and benzene may be transferable to other molecules. The MOGA results produce transferable potentials that is parameters from one molecular system can be used for similar systems analogous to use of building blocks in genetic algorithms. As a nonlimiting example parameters from one molecular system can be used for similar systems such as ethylene parameters to simulate benzene and vice versa . Optimized semiempirical parameters of a small number of relatively simple molecules can be used to predict accurately the behavior of large complex molecules. Such transferability may allow for example GAs to enable the fast accurate simulation of complex molecules from a standard GA tuned database. This allows as a nonlimiting example direct simulation of photoinduced cis trans isomerization in molecules such as but not limited to stilbene and azobenzene as well as energy transfer in dendrimeric molecules. Furthermore this opens up the possibility of accurate simulations of photochemistry in complex environments such as proteins and condensed phases providing new ways for modeling and designing chemicals.

The GA discovered potentials inherit the accuracy of the ab initio data permit simulations to orders of magnitude larger time scales e.g. picoseconds than that believed currently possible by ab initio methods e.g. femtoseconds even for simple molecules and exhibit transferability in initial tests. A MOGA optimization approach according to preferred embodiments of the present invention provides an enabling technology to simulate successfully within a reasonable time frame and with sufficient accuracy complex multiscale biological chemical and materials problems that are ubiquitous in science and engineering and thus impact one s ability to address critical biophysical simulations of for example vision and photosynthesis and for automated design of pharmaceuticals and functional materials. Applications include but are not limited to computational materials chemistry physics biochemical and pharmaceutical analysis and design.

Methods and systems according to the present invention may be applicable to simulations of other physical chemical biochemical and or biological events. For example optimization artificial intelligence and machine learning methods such as genetic programming GP may be used to provide more accurate and efficient solutions for simulating or predicting dynamics of materials related events such as molecular dynamics and physical dynamics.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods and program products for tuning or evolving reaction simulations using optimization methods and for simulating reactions. Those knowledgeable in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the present invention lend themselves well to practice in the form of computer program products. Accordingly it will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention may comprise computer program products comprising computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed cause a computer to undertake methods according to the present invention or a computer configured to carry out such methods. The executable instructions may comprise computer program language instructions that have been compiled into a machine readable format. The computer readable medium may comprise by way of example a magnetic optical signal based and or circuitry medium useful for storing data. The instructions may be downloaded entirely or in part from a networked computer. Also it will be appreciated that the term computer as used herein is intended to broadly refer to any machine capable of reading and executing recorded instructions. It will also be understood that results of methods of the present invention may be displayed on one or more monitors or displays e.g. as text graphics charts code etc. printed on suitable media stored in appropriate memory or storage etc. Other embodiments of the invention include systems for tuning or evolving reaction simulations using optimization methods and for simulating reactions with an example being a processor based system capable of executing instructions that cause it to carry out a method of the invention. It will accordingly be appreciated that description made herein of a method of the invention may likewise apply to a program product of the invention and or to a system of the invention. Resulting parameter set and optimized functional forms are also embodiments of the present invention.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

