---

title: Method and management system for configuring an information system
abstract: According to the method for configuring an information system (), components () are provided for the information system () and component-specific error susceptibility data () on the individual components (). For a given system configuration (), error susceptibility information () is determined for the information system () in this given system configuration () as a function of the component-specific error susceptibility data (). The error susceptibility information () is evaluated with reference to given evaluation criteria (). In a subsequent step, the information system () is configured in the given system configuration () if the error susceptibility information () satisfies the given evaluation criteria (). By means of the method, it is achieved that only system configurations are accepted that satisfy requirements specified by the evaluation criteria () with respect to the reliability of the information system ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07975185&OS=07975185&RS=07975185
owner: Fujitsu Siemens Computers GmbH
number: 07975185
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080422
---
This application is a continuation of co pending International Application No. PCT EP2007 050765 filed Jan. 26 2007 which designated the United States and was not published in English and which is based on German Application No. 10 2006 013 514.8 filed Mar. 23 2006 both of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to a method and a management system for configuring an information system as well as to a computer program product suitable for executing the method.

For many applications the reliability with which an information system makes available its services is of great importance. In the scope of the application an information system is understood to be any system processing information for example end user computer systems consisting of one or more computers as well as computer systems providing services over a network server arrangements control systems embedded systems or systems in the field of pervasive computing. Information systems can involve static systems whose configuration is set essentially manually by a user or system administrator or dynamic systems whose configuration can be changed dynamically and automatically. In server arrangements such dynamic systems are known for example from the field of autonomous computing. In pervasive computing components can often be detected automatically and linked ad hoc wherein a dynamic configuration of the system is produced particularly for mobile components.

To increase the reliability of information systems various concepts are pursued. One possibility is to minimize or eliminate the negative effects of a resulting error. One method from this group which is also designated as fault tolerant computing is for example the redundant provision of replacement components which take over as seamlessly as possible the function of a defective component.

Another concept relies on suitable components which exhibit low susceptibility to errors in the design. This solution approach is typically advanced for static systems during the design phase of the system in the scope of quality assurance. Here it is problematic that in the course of restructuring and expanding the system it is not guaranteed that quality assurance aspects are taken into account for also minimizing the susceptibility of the system to errors to a corresponding degree. In addition this solution approach cannot be easily transferred to dynamically configured systems because they do not have a corresponding development phase in which a static configuration was set.

In one aspect the present invention creates a method for configuring information systems which also leads in dynamic systems to increased availability of the services of the information system. In another aspect a management system for an information system and a computer program product are suitable for executing the method.

In one embodiment the method for configuring an information system comprises the following steps. Components for the information system are provided as well as component specific error susceptibility data on the individual components. A system configuration for the information system is set through which is specified which of the provided components are used. Error susceptibility information for the information system in the given system configuration is defined as a function of the component specific error susceptibility data and this error susceptibility information is evaluated with respect to given evaluation criteria. In a subsequent step the information system is configured in the given system configuration if the error susceptibility information fulfills the given evaluation criteria. Through the method it is achieved that for a given system configuration error susceptibility information for the entire information system is automatically determined with reference to the provided component specific error susceptibility data of the individual components. By evaluating the error susceptibility information with reference to the given evaluation criteria it is achieved that the information system is configured only with the given system configuration if the specified evaluation criteria are satisfied for the error susceptibility of the information system. In this way it is guaranteed for each given system configuration that the information system fulfills the claims set for the system with respect to its reliability which are defined by the given evaluation criteria.

In an advantageous refinement of the method the component specific error susceptibility data is provided by a central database. This offers the advantage of the ability to update the error susceptibility data at any time for example with reference to experience values.

In another advantageous implementation the component specific error susceptibility data is provided by the components themselves. The advantage of this implementation is that error susceptibility data specified by the manufacturer can be provided so that it is unmistakably associated with the component.

In another implementation of the method at least parts of the component specific error susceptibility data are stored in a central database and are provided so that they mirror the components. In this implementation of the method the advantages of the two embodiments named above are combined.

In other advantageous implementations of the method the component specific error susceptibility data includes error likelihood and or failure likelihood of the component. In an especially preferred way here the error likelihood and or the failure likelihood of the components are specified as a function of an operating period of the component. Furthermore it is advantageous if component specific error susceptibility data include statistics on prior failures of the component and or information on expected downtimes for replacement of the component. It is further advantageous to specify the component specific error susceptibility data completely or partially dependent on the use of the component. Here it is especially advantageous to provide use information by the information system and to determine the error susceptibility information for the information system as a function of the user information and the use dependent component specific error susceptibility data. The error susceptibility data of the mentioned type advantageously allows the error susceptibility of the entire information system to be determined in a way that is adapted to the information system and optionally to the situation of use and that is thereby reliable.

The management system according to embodiments of the invention includes an estimating unit designed for determining error susceptibility information on the information system as a function of component specific error susceptibility data and a given system configuration for the information system and an evaluation unit designed for evaluating the error susceptibility information with reference to given evaluation criteria. The management system is designed just like the computer program product to execute one of the previously specified methods according to various embodiments of the invention. The resulting advantages are analogous to those of the method.

In an especially preferred embodiment of the management system the evaluation unit is designed to provide a system configuration to the estimating unit for determining error susceptibility information. This embodiment advantageously provides for automatically locating a suitable or the most suitable system configuration as a function of the components provided for use in the information system.

The making and using of the presently preferred embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not limit the scope of the invention.

Elements that are identical or that have identical actions are provided with the same reference symbols in the figures. Reference symbols provided with an index A B C refer to a specific component or set of error susceptibility data . If a reference symbol without an index is used it refers to the corresponding feature in general.

The information system shown in can involve an individual computer or also a computer system made from several individual computers. The information system can have a plurality of components of which a few are mandatory and others optional. Here for example only two components are shown each with the error susceptibility data .

The error susceptibility data is information on the reliability of the component that is stored inside the components . The error susceptibility data does not directly contribute to the operation of the component but is understood instead as meta data describing the component . The error susceptibility data can include for example information concerning error and failure likelihood of the component or information concerning expected downtimes for replacing the component . Furthermore error tolerance information can also be provided which indicates how tolerant or immune the components are with respect to errors of other components. The information can be obtained and given with reference to estimates by the manufacturer and supplemented or replaced by statistical or empirical observations of the user or user groups.

The information can be specified either as constants or as a function of other parameters. Such parameters can relate to the use of the component for example the information on error and failure likelihood of a component can be performed as a function of a total use period a daily use period or an operating mode. One example of dependency of the error susceptibility on the operating mode is a hard disk drive which can be used with or without a volatile buffer cache for write operations. If a cache is used the hard disk drive is burdened with fewer write accesses and is consequently less susceptible to errors than if it is operated without a cache. Conversely the error tolerance of the hard disk drive changes e.g. relative to an error of a power supply unit because if it fails data still buffered in the cache of the hard disk drive is lost when the hard disk drive is operated in cache mode. Furthermore it is conceivable to specify the error susceptibility data as a function of ambient parameters e.g. ambient temperature.

The components can be software components for example user or operating system programs or updates of programs updates patches or can be hardware components for example expansion cards or peripherals. For providing error susceptibility data by the components different methods can be used. For software components an API Application Programming Interface is provided. For hardware components as an interface for meta data for example the plug and play interface is known which can also be used in an expanded form for transmitting error susceptibility data . Here the error susceptibility data can be stored and transmitted in any arbitrary data format but on the basis of expandability and platform independence encapsulation in a descriptive language such as XML eXtensible Markup Language is advantageous.

A management system according to embodiments of the invention can be formed essentially by the estimating unit and the evaluation unit . Advantageously the management system is constructed independently of the information system as a standalone unit but it is also possible to provide the management system as one unit in the information system . Depending on the design different interfaces can be used for data exchange reading error susceptibility data and use information output of configuration instructions with the information system . In particular for management systems with standalone hardware independent of the information system known network transmission paths are offered.

In the following in connection with the flow chart in an embodiment of the example method according to the invention is shown in more detail as can be implemented by the arrangement shown in .

In a first step S the components for the information system are provided together with their error susceptibility data . This can be realized as already described in connection with in such a way that each component contains stored error susceptibility data relevant to it. In one alternative embodiment it is conceivable that the error susceptibility data is not stored in the components themselves but instead in a database. In another embodiment a combination system is conceivable in such a way that error susceptibility data can be stored in the components but can be expanded or updated if necessary by error susceptibility data from a database. To allow uniform access to error susceptibility data in such a system it is conceivable that the error susceptibility data stored in the database can be retrieved from the database by the components and provided to the component in the same way as the error susceptibility data mirrored error susceptibility data stored within the components. Furthermore in step S the use information is provided by the information system .

In a step S a system configuration for the information system is given. The system configuration here includes at least information on which of the provided components in the information system are used or are supposed to be used. In addition information can be provided on how the components being used interact with each other. However it is also possible that this is implicit from the type of selected components.

A specification of the system configuration can be realized in various ways. First a specification on an operating system specific way is possible e.g. according to WS management Web Services for Management by Microsoft. Second the use of an operating system independent standard is conceivable for example CIM Computer Interface Model of the DMTF Distributed Management Task Force organization or WSDM Web Services Distributed Management of OASIS Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards .

In a step S both the system configuration and also the error susceptibility data of the components used according to the system configuration and the use information are read by the estimating unit .

Taking into consideration the system configuration and the use information the estimating unit determines in this respect the error estimate information for the entire information system with reference to the error estimate data in a step S. Methods and algorithms used for this purpose are known from the theory of error propagation and error estimation. As an example the Markov chain theory should be mentioned which has been established as particularly suitable for describing error estimation within information systems.

The error susceptibility information generated by the estimating unit includes data similar to the error susceptibility data but not related to an individual component but to the entire information system . With the error susceptibility information uncertainty levels can also be specified which indicate the level of certainty with which the error susceptibility information was derived from the corresponding error susceptibility data .

The error susceptibility information transmitted by the estimating unit to the evaluation unit is evaluated in a next step S with reference to evaluation criteria . This evaluation criteria can be made available to the evaluation unit for example by a database e.g. the so called policy database. The evaluation criteria define the requirements placed on an information system with respect to reliability. In the simplest case it can involve e.g. a threshold value for barely justifiable error likelihood of the information system. In general the evaluation criteria has multiple levels and takes into account the complexity of the transmitted error susceptibility information . An evaluation can be performed for example on different time scales e.g. by specifying evaluation criteria as a function of a use period. Furthermore downtimes to be expected for certain errors are to be taken into account. Here it is possible to let available means for correcting a possible error influence the evaluation e.g. the question whether an error can be corrected by internal always available service means or whether external service means which under some circumstances may not be immediately available must be used.

In a step S it is decided whether the given system configuration fulfills the requirements on reliability placed on it and represented in the evaluation criteria . Only when these requirements are satisfied is the information system configured with the system configuration in a step S. If the imposed requirements are not fulfilled then the method ends after step S otherwise it ends after step S after a successful configuration.

The method can be constructed so that the steps S to S are executed once on demand. In alternative embodiments the provided components and or the error estimation data especially when this is provided not by the components themselves but instead via a database and or the given system configuration can be tested continuously for changes and the steps S to S can be executed only when such changes are observed. In another embodiment it is conceivable to provide a new system configuration with reference to the evaluation results of a given system configuration if it is determined in step S that the given system configuration does not satisfy the requirements placed on the reliability of the information system. With the new system configuration as a given system configuration S to S are executed again. The method can be executed iteratively until a suitable configuration is found that is then accepted in step S. A management system designed for executing such a method is explained in more detail below with reference to .

The arrangement shown in is especially suitable when the information system involves a larger computer system. The components stored in the component database are understandably in this case software components that is applications updates patches. In addition however error susceptibility data on hardware components can be stored either in the component database or in another database not shown here.

In this embodiment the evaluation unit is designed to give the system configuration . For this purpose a number of possible system configurations for example can be given from which one system configuration is selected as a function of the available components in the component database . As already mentioned in connection with for this given system configuration the error susceptibility information is then generated with reference to the component specific error susceptibility data of components in use as well as the use information by the evaluation unit . This is transmitted as before to the evaluation unit and evaluated by the evaluation unit with reference to the evaluation criteria . If the given system configuration does not satisfy the set requirements another system configuration can be selected by the evaluation unit from the specified system configurations and the method can be executed again. In this way a suitable system configuration fulfilling the set requirements or the system configuration best fulfilling the set requirements or at least the system configuration coming closest to the set requirements is found iteratively. If this system configuration thoroughly fulfills the requirements the evaluation unit instructs the unit for automatic configuration to change the system configuration in the information system .

Under certain circumstances which are likewise fixed by the evaluation criteria a found system configuration is not forwarded to the unit for automatic configuration but is first presented as a proposed system configuration to the operator . Such a case is then conceivable e.g. when the proposed system configuration just barely does or does not satisfy the set conditions or when changes to the hardware components of the information system are necessary for converting the new system configuration or when the error susceptibility information forming the basis of the proposed system configuration is associated with a high level of uncertainty.

In a first group of components which have found each other by means of the mentioned discovery technologies is shown on the left side. According to the invention the individual components are equipped in turn with error susceptibility data . Through automatic organization mechanisms known from the field of pervasive computing components found from the first group form a second group of components A C in use as well as a third group of redundant components .

So that the information system provides its services with the desired reliability the automatic organization mechanisms forming the basis of the dynamic configuration of the information system are constructed according to the invention in such a way that the error susceptibility information A C which is provided by the individual components A C is used during the configuration process for determining error susceptibility information which can be included in the configuration process after corresponding evaluation. In a similar way to how the automatic organization process is a distributed process in ad hoc automatically configuring systems the compilation of the error susceptibility data A C the estimation of error susceptibility information of a possible system configuration and their evaluation is also executed as a distributed process.

