---

title: Notification controls for online collaboration platform
abstract: In an example embodiment, an online advertising management platform maintains an account that includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. When the platform receives a login that identifies a user as having access rights to the account, the platform displays a view that includes a window displaying data relating to the order and a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a tab that displays a count of each informational message (e.g., alert or tip) which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the current user. When the user clicks on the tab, the platform displays a tabbed window that includes a list of the informational messages, regardless of whether an informational message on the list has been read or dismissed by another user allowed access to the account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060823&OS=08060823&RS=08060823
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08060823
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 189 083 YAHOP068 entitled Utility Toolbar for Online Collaboration Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 189 091 YAHOP070 entitled Window Overlay for Online Collaboration Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 189 095 YAHOP071 entitled Facilitated Search for Online Collaboration Platform and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 189 100 YAHOP072 entitled Searching by Object Category for Online Collaboration Platform filed contemporaneously with this application. The disclosures of these related applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Collaboration platforms are an emerging category of computer software. Typically such platforms offer a set of software components and services that enable individuals to find each other and the information that they need to be able to communicate and work together to achieve a common business goal. In some implementations the elements of a collaboration platform which are domain agnostic might include messaging e.g. emails calendaring and scheduling and contacts team collaboration e.g. file synchronization task project management and full text search social computing tools e.g. wiki blog tagging RSS and shared bookmarks and real time communication e.g. presence instant messaging application desktop sharing and audio video web conferencing . Online implementations of collaboration platforms might be colloquially referred to as Enterprise 2.0 by analogy to Web 2.0.

A portal has designed an online collaboration platform in the advertising domain. The platform is called an advertising management platform and it can include an ad network an ad server an ad exchange enterprise CRM functionality e.g. for target marketing and account management and enterprise DSS decision support system functionality e.g. a digital dashboard among other components. An ad network is a group of sites that a portal or a media company can sell collectively to an advertiser. An ad network might sell text ads display ads video ads ads in video or other advertising inventory. Publishers use an ad server to decide which ads to show and to help manage their advertising inventory while advertisers and agencies use an ad server to simplify the ad reporting process. In an ad exchange buyers and sellers trade advertising inventory in an online central market in real time like in a stock exchange. Networks put advertising inventory into the ad exchange to be bought most often by another seller who needs the impressions to fulfill an advertiser request. Through the ad exchange buyers can gain access to a pool of inventory that might not have been available through any one vendor.

The workflows in such a platform tend to be complex since they require a large amount of human computer interaction from users assuming myriad roles with varying access rights to the data maintained by the platform. Consequently there is a need for a graphical user interface e.g. a model view controller that employs personalization and or contextualization to facilitate the efficient and effective use of the platform.

In an example embodiment a computer implemented method is described for an online advertising management platform. In the method s first operation the platform receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The account includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. In the method s second operation the platform displays a view in a graphical user interface including a window displaying some or all of the data relating to the order. In the method s third operation the platform displays a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a labeled tab and a notification balloon indicating that there is an informational message which the user has not read if the user has not read each informational message. In the method s fourth operation the platform displays a tabbed window after the user clicks the labeled tab. The tabbed window includes an ordered list of each informational message which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the user. The ordered list visually emphasizes each informational message which the user has not read regardless of whether the informational message has been read or dismissed by another user allowed access to the account.

In another example embodiment a computer implemented method is described for an online advertising management platform. In the method s first operation the platform receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The account includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. In the method s second operation the platform displays a view in a graphical user interface including a window displaying some or all of the data relating to the order. In the method s third operation the platform displays a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a labeled tab. The labeled tab displays a count of each informational message which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the user. In the method s fourth operation the platform displays above the labeled tab for a fixed time period a balloon indicating that there is an informational message which the user has not read if the user has not read each informational message. In the method s fifth operation the platform displays a tabbed window after the user clicks the labeled tab. The tabbed window includes an ordered list of each informational message which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the user. The ordered list visually emphasizes each informational message which the user has not read regardless of whether the informational message has been read or dismissed by another user allowed access to the account.

In another example embodiment persistent executable logic is described for an online advertising management platform. The executable logic receives a login that identifies a user as a user allowed access to an account maintained by the platform. The account includes data relating to an order for advertising provided by an ad network affiliated with the platform. The executable logic displays a view in a graphical user interface including a window displaying some or all of the data relating to the order. The executable logic displays a toolbar in a standardized location relative to the window. The toolbar includes a labeled tab. The labeled tab displays a count of each informational message which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the user. The executable logic displays above the labeled tab for a fixed time period a balloon indicating that there is an informational message which the user has not read if the user has not read each informational message. The executable logic displays a tabbed window after the user clicks the labeled tab. The tabbed window includes an ordered list of each informational message which relates to the displayed data and which has not been dismissed by the user. The ordered list visually emphasizes each informational message which the user has not read regardless of whether the informational message has been read or dismissed by another user allowed access to the account.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrates by way of example the principles of the invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the example embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances process operations and implementation details have not been described in detail if already well known.

In a use case for the online advertising management platform a newspaper with both print and online publications might be a member of the advertising network associated with the platform. An account representative for the newspaper e.g. Joe Smith of SG Newspaper might manage the advertising campaigns for several of the newspaper s advertising clients by regularly logging onto the platform as a user. Additionally a sales representative for the newspaper e.g. Dina Joseph of SG Newspaper might track the progress of a campaign for an advertising client by occasionally logging onto the platform as a user. It will be appreciated that the advertising campaign might involve online display advertising in the online edition of the newspaper e.g. graphics heavy banners and column ads display advertising in the print edition of the newspaper contextual or search advertising on the results page for the portal s search engine display advertising on the website of another member of the advertising network etc.

Digital dashboard includes a horizontal bar which lists some object categories frequently used by the platform a Orders for an account which will be discussed below b Creatives e.g. a graphics file c Inventory e.g. advertising space in an online newspaper d Connections e.g. between data objects and their attributes e Filters e.g. for use in searches within the platform f Community e.g. for exchange of user group information and g Settings e.g. for configuration of external interfaces such as GUIs . In an example embodiment digital dashboard includes a pane containing summary accounting information in the form of Gross Revenue from orders accessible by the user e.g. 1 222 333.00 the Cost from all orders accessible by the user e.g. 1 200 333.00 and the resulting Profit e.g. 22 000.00 as a function of time e.g. Last Week and This Week .

Digital dashboard also includes a pane which shows a list summarizing all Alerts and Approvals relating to orders accessible by the user and a tabbed window labeled View All Alerts that allows the user to view each of the alerts accessible by the user rather than just summaries of those alerts. In an example embodiment digital dashboard includes two additional views. Pane includes performance measures such as ePRM or effective revenues per millennium or 1000 page views impressions clicks CTR or click through rate and conversions relating to the advertising network of which the user s publisher e.g. newspaper is a member. Pane includes performance measures e.g. net revenue and CTR for the top advertisers among the clients of the user s publisher.

The number in the tab e.g. 3 for tabbed window indicates the number of alerts that have not been dismissed by the user who is logged in regardless of whether the alerts have been previously dismissed by another user who has access to the order. In this manner the platform facilitates asynchronous collaboration by a team of users e.g. a publisher s employees and agents. In an example embodiment the platform does not automatically dismiss an alert that has been read so that the number in the tab will not change if the user reads an alert but does not dismiss the alert. However the platform will not display a notification balloon if all alerts have been read by the current user.

Also in an example embodiment the balloon is displayed for a fixed period of time whose duration is proportional to the priority of the highest priority alert that has not been read by the user who is logged in. Building on the example above a balloon might be displayed for seven seconds if it concerned an ad that was editorially declined whereas a balloon might be displayed for only five seconds if it concerned an ad group that was underperforming by not serving enough impressions.

In view the toolbar includes a tabbed window labeled Help Tips 1 . The number in the tab e.g. 1 for tabbed window indicates the number of tips that have not been read by the user who is logged in regardless of whether the tips have been previously read by another user who has access to the order. In an example embodiment the platform might automatically dismiss a tip once it has been read e.g. opened. In an alternative example embodiment the platform might allow a user to dismiss a tip using GUI views and controls similar to those that allow a user to dismiss an alert as described elsewhere. A tip might recommend an action or practice to improve the performance of the order s advertising. Tabbed window might also provide a link label to the platform s online help which might comprise help with respect to both substantive e.g. workflow and technical e.g. user interface matters.

As mentioned above view also includes pane entry boxes and pane . In an example embodiment pane might include Order Details such as the status of the order e.g. active the schedule for the order Dec. 1 2007 Jan. 31 2008 and the budget for the order e.g. 20 000 with 2 000 available as well as the sales team and contacts for the order. Entry boxes allow a user to create a filter for viewing data related to an order. In the user has created a filter that shows the performance for an order based on the order s ad groups for a particular time period e.g. the last 14 days Nov. 14 2007 Nov. 30 2007 . Also as shown in view allows a user to save a filter that the user has created and use it at a subsequent time. In this regard see the dropdown list labeled Choose a Filter and the labeled button More Filters . Pane in shows the results of applying the filter shown in entry boxes to the data relating to an order. Pane includes a table showing particular performance statistics e.g. impressions clicks CTR eCPC or estimated cost per click and eCPM or cost per thousand impressions for particular ad groups e.g. Sports Males End of Year Females End of Year Video etc. .

Below each alert displayed in the list in tabbed window is a horizontal menu which allows the user to a read more about the alert e.g. the details of the alert as opposed to simply the alert s summary b take action with respect to the alert e.g. by removing offensive text or imagery from an ad that was editorially declined or c dismiss the alert. Next to each message in the list in tabbed window is a warning sign e.g. an exclamation mark in a triangle whose color might communicate additional information about the alert in an example embodiment. For example in the list in window messages and might have a warning sign that is red to indicate that a workflow is not proceeding per plan e.g. Order ABC Energy Summer Campaign has these undelivered ads Summer Energy468 60 Summer Pow125 125 and Ad ABC Summer POW gif has been suspended respectively whereas message might have a warning sign that is black to indicate a milestone in a workflow relating to an order e.g. Order ABC Energy Summer Campaign has started . It will be appreciated that ABC Summer POW gif might be a creative in the form of a display ad implemented in the GIF Graphics Interchange Format file format whereas Summer Energy468 60 and Summer Pow125 125 might be display ads implemented in a bitmap format in an example embodiment.

At the bottom of list in tabbed window is a link label that allows a user to go to a global alert page which lists all of alerts that the user is allowed to access regardless of the order to which each of the alerts relates. It will be appreciated that the alerts listed in the list in tabbed window are context dependent and relate to the order data displayed outside the boundaries of tabbed window e.g. the order data for the ABC Energy Summer Campaign. It will also be appreciated that the platform locates tabbed window contiguous to the utility toolbar in view so that tabbed window does not completely obstruct the displayed order data for the ABC Energy Summer Campaign allowing a user to see and work with both the order data and the list in tabbed window at the same time.

In an example embodiment a user might enter a fixed number of characters from a search term into textbox . Then the platform might display a list of data objects which are relevant to the characters in combo box . The list might include a description of each relevant data object maintained e.g. persistently stored by the platform along with the data object s object category. For example as shown in if the user enters toyota into textbox the platform might display toyota ad male 01.08 in combo box among other data objects. As might be guessed the object category for toyota ad male 01.08 is an ad . If the user clicks on the object the platform might display the ad itself rather than a page with search results. In an example embodiment other searchable object categories might include orders users accounts creatives ads linked companies sites line items ad groups rate cards reports and approvals.

In an example embodiment the platform might store the data objects in a server accessed through AJAX techniques and launch a search for data objects after the user has enter the fixed number of characters e.g. 3 4 5 etc. The platform might conduct a new search of the server each time the user enters another search term character in order to generate a list of increasing relevancy. It will be appreciated that AJAX asynchronous JavaScript and XML is a set of interrelated web development techniques used for creating interactive web application programs. Using these techniques a web application program can retrieve data from a server asynchronously in the background without interfering with the display and behavior of the page that is currently displayed. Typically a web application retrieves data from a server using the XMLHttpRequest API application programming interface or through the use of Remote Scripting in browsers that do not support that API. Despite the acronym AJAX the use of JavaScript XML and asynchrony is not required in all AJAX implementations. It will also be appreciated that the data objects are data objects used in the platform not prior search terms or queries as might be the case in a web application such as Yahoo Search s Instant Search. However in an example embodiment the platform might use a library based on Instant Search in order to populate the list of data objects displayed by combo box .

In an example embodiment the platform locates combo box contiguous to the utility toolbar in view so that combo box does not completely obstruct the displayed order data for Toyota Holidays allowing a user to see and work with both the order data and the list of data objects in the combo box at the same time. However the data objects on that list might not relate to the order data but instead relate to other orders and or accounts to which the user has access.

On page the user has entered a value of Proctor Gamble in entry box a value of Jones in entry box and a value of 342343566 in entry box . If the user then clicks the button labeled Search on page the platform returns and displays search results that are orders relevant to the search term e.g. Toyota which meet the restrictions created by the entered values in entry boxes and e.g. the advertiser is Proctor Gamble the sales rep is Jones and the order id is 342343566. It will be appreciated that such a restricted search ordinarily requires the use of an additional page dedicated to displaying entry boxes for a generalized advanced search.

On page the user has entered a value of 300 250 in entry box and a value of Rich Media in entry box . If the user then clicks the button labeled Search on page the platform returns and displays search results that are ads relevant to the search term e.g. Toyota which meet the restrictions created by the entered values in entry boxes and e.g. the ad size is 300 250 and the format is rich media. Here again it will be appreciated that such a restricted search ordinarily requires the use of an additional page dedicated to displaying entry boxes for a generalized advanced search.

The process continues in operation where the platform receives a login that identifies a subsequent user e.g. sales representative Dina Joseph in the use case above as having access rights to same account. In operation the platform displays a view with the order s data and the standardized toolbar with a tab showing a count of the informational messages that relate to the order s data and that have not been dismissed by the subsequent user as opposed to the prior user. Then in operation the platform displays a tabbed window with a list of informational messages including the particular informational message dismissed by the prior user when the subsequent user clicks on the tab. As suggested earlier this process facilitates asynchronous collaboration by a team of users.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although example embodiments of the invention have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the following claims. For example the utility toolbar might be implemented as a browser toolbar add on rather than as part of the platform itself. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the following claims. In the following claims elements and or steps do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims or implicitly required by the specification and or drawings.

