---

title: Processing invitations and accepting configuration information on a device
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products display invites on a mobile device calendar. An invitation is received that identifies an event having a start time and a duration. The invitation is presented to a user of a mobile device, where the mobile device includes two or more calendars. The invitation is associated with at least one of the two or more calendars, and the event is displayed in at least one calendar associated with the invitation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655691&OS=08655691&RS=08655691
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08655691
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 033 672 filed Mar. 4 2008 titled Processing Invitations and Accepting Configuration Information on a Device the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein.

The present disclosure relates to processing invitations and accepting configuration information on electronic devices such as mobile devices.

Electronic devices such as mobile devices can include electronic calendars that synchronize with electronic calendars on desktop computers. For instance acceptance of a meeting request on a desktop computer can result in meeting times being uploaded to the mobile device. The calendars in such devices are limited however to displaying calendar events such as meetings birthday parties etc. on the same calendar and in the same manner. For instance conventional devices include a single calendar for illustrating both work related and personal events.

Electronic devices such as mobile devices also enable the creation of personalized themes and the installation of applications. One problem with existing devices is that devices are not easily customizable so that users can install one or more profiles including profiles received from remote sources. Another problem with existing devices is that the user cannot easily view and or approve trust certificates and the like for applications the user wishes to install.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods systems and computer program products.

One method includes the actions of receiving an invitation the invitation identifying an event having a start time and a duration presenting the invitation to a user of a mobile device the mobile device including two or more calendars associating the invitation with at least one of the two or more calendars and displaying the event in the at least one calendar associated with the invitation.

According to one feature the method also includes receiving an instruction from the user the instruction identifying the at least one calendar associated with the invitation. The at least one calendar can include two or more calendars. According to another feature the method can include requesting that the invitation be accepted or declined by the user. Additionally displaying the event can include displaying the event as an impermanent event in the at least one calendar until the user accepts the invitation. According to yet another feature the method can include displaying the invitation to the user while the user is interacting with an application of the mobile device.

Another method includes the actions of receiving a first invitation the first invitation identifying a first event receiving a second invitation the second invitation identifying a second event associating the first invitation with a first calendar associating the second invitation with a second calendar and displaying a composite calendar the composite calendar including the first event and the second event.

According to one feature displaying the composite calendar includes displaying each of the first event and second events as respective event blocks in the composite calendar. Each of the respective event blocks is associated with a different color and or may be shaded or colored a different color. According to another feature the composite calendar can include a daily calendar a weekly calendar or a monthly calendar.

Yet another method includes the actions of receiving a plurality of invitations each of the plurality of invitations associated with an invitation object displaying each of the invitation objects to a user and storing each of the invitation objects in an invite list. The method also includes receiving a user request to process at least one of the invitation objects adding an event identified by an invitation associated with the at least one of the invitation objects to one of a plurality of calendars and displaying the event in the one of the plurality of calendars.

According to one feature the method can also include receiving an instruction from the user the instruction identifying the one of the plurality of calendars. According to another feature the method can include requesting that each of the plurality of invitations be accepted or declined by the user. Additionally displaying the event can include displaying the event as an impermanent event until the user accepts the invitation. Moreover the plurality of invitations can be received at a mobile device and the method can also include displaying the invitation to the user while the user is interacting with an application of the mobile device.

Another method includes the actions of receiving at a mobile device at least two trust certificates installing the at least two trust certificates on the mobile device displaying at least two trust certificate objects in a graphical user interface where each trust certificate object corresponds to a respective received trust certificate and upon receiving a user selection of one of the trust certificate objects enabling the trust certificate corresponding to the user selected trust certificate object.

Still another method includes the actions of receiving a first profile at a mobile device the first profile represented by a first profile object receiving a second profile at the mobile device the second profile represented by a second profile object and displaying the first profile object and the second profile object in a graphical user interface. The method also includes receiving a user selection of either the first profile object or the second profile object and enabling the profile represented by the user selected profile object.

According to a feature displaying the first profile object and the second profile object in a graphical user interface includes displaying the first profile object and the second profile object in a profiles list. According to another feature the method includes displaying details of the profile represented by the user selected profile object. According to yet another feature receiving the first profile at the mobile device includes receiving the first profile at the mobile device as an email attachment. Receiving the second profile at the mobile device can also include receiving the second profile at the mobile device via a web page.

Yet another method includes the actions of receiving a first profile at a mobile device the first profile represented by a first profile object and receiving a second profile at the mobile device the second profile represented by a second profile object. The method also includes displaying the first profile object and the second profile object in a graphical user interface receiving a user selection of either the first profile object and the second profile object and deleting the profile represented by the user selected profile object after receiving a user instruction to delete the profile represented by the user selected profile object.

Some of the following advantages are achieved. Users can receive invitations through email or while using other applications of the mobile device such as during web browsing. Invitations can be stored in a single location for later processing by a user. For instance all pending invitations can be stored and viewed in a list in a single GUI. Additionally invitations can be added to one or more calendars. Events defined by the invitations can be viewed in the separate calendars. Alternatively a consolidated calendar showing all invitations may be displayed. The events displayed in the consolidated calendar can be color coordinated so that a user can quickly determine if the events are associated with a particular calendar e.g. a work calendar home calendar birthday calendar or the like .

Users can also use the mobile device to download trust certificates from email and web sites. Users can select a trust certificate from a list of stored trust certificates via a single GUI. Additionally the mobile device permits the storage and management of multiple profiles which may be password protected.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface GUI can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level GUI such as the GUI illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the GUI of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the GUI of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the GUI to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the GUI to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the GUI to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level GUI environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the GUI environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level GUI can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the GUI of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the GUI to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

The invitation object can be a user selectable display object within the e mail message . According to some implementations one or more graphics can be included in the invitation such as an arrow e.g. to indicate to a user of the mobile device that the invitation is selectable by the user. In the example interface the invitation object represents an invite to a design review meeting taking place at 1 00 PM on Monday.

The invitation includes several fields displaying details of the invitation some of which are configurable by a user of the device . These details can include for instance the time location and duration of an event a list of attendees if any the identity of the person who sent the invitation and notes that may offer additional information about the invitation. For instance the example invitation of displays that the design review meeting is to be held in conference room A on Monday Oct. 29 2007 from 1 to 3 PM that the invitation originated from Greg C. and that the attendees include Freddy A and Stephen L.

According to some implementations a user can identify one or more calendars that an invitation will be associated with via a calendar field . Because the device can include multiple separate calendars e.g. separate calendars for work or home events a user can identify which calendar or calendars an invitation should be associated with such that it is stored and viewed in that calendar or calendars . This allows a user to maintain separate calendars each having corresponding invitations. According to some implementations selection of the calendar field permits a user a toggle selection of one or more calendars that the user may identify as associated with the invitation. As described in greater detail below the mobile device permits a user to view all events created by invitations simultaneously in a consolidated calendar view regardless of the specific calendar each event is associated with.

In some implementations one or more of the fields that display details of the invitation can be separately scrollable to enable the user to view additional information without requiring expansion of the fields on the interface or through selection and display of the fields on a separate interface.

The invitation GUI also includes a user selectable show in calendar display object that permits a user to view the invitation in a calendar as is described with respect to . As is also shown in when the invitation is displayed in the invitation GUI a user is presented with one of three user selectable display objects an accept object a maybe object and a decline object . The accept object permits the user to accept the invitation which will place the event in the calendar of the device identified by the user by calendar field and may transmit an automated accept response to the e mail address of the person who transmitted the invitation and possibly to all attendees . The decline object permits the user to decline the invitation which may result in the transmission of an automated decline response to the e mail address of the person who transmitted the invitation and possibly to one or more attendees . Selection of the maybe object permits the user to defer accepting or declining the invitation and places the invitation in an invitation review GUI described with respect to .

The pop up invitation object is similar to the invitation object shown in . The object can include a title of the invention in design review the sender or originator of the invitation and the time and date of the invitation. The pop up invitation object can be closed by the user by selection of a close object so that the user can continue viewing and or using the application the user was interacting with before the object appeared. Alternatively the user can select a view object . If the user selects the view object the user will be able to view details of the invitation in an invitation GUI such as the invitation GUI shown in .

The example invitation review GUI shown in displays a list of invitations that the user has not yet accepted or rejected. In some implementations the invitation review GUI displays a list of invitations for which the user selected the maybe object . For instance if a user receives an invitation and fails to accept or reject it and or selects the maybe object in the invitation GUI the invite will be displayed in the invitation review GUI . This GUI provides a user with a single screen to view all invitations the user has yet to accept or reject. Two invitation objects are displayed in the example review GUI of .

In some implementations each invitation object in the GUI can include a selection bullet when the user has yet to accept or reject each invitation. Additionally each invitation can include one or more graphics such as an arrow e.g. to indicate to a user of the mobile device that the invitation object is selectable by the user. By selecting an invitation object from the invitation review GUI the user will be presented with the details of the invitation in the invitation GUI .

The display of an event corresponding to an invitation in the show in calendar GUI allows a user to quickly determine whether the event identified by the invitation conflicts with other events the user has scheduled and stored in the device s calendar. This may help assist a user in deciding whether or not to accept or reject an invitation.

The example show in calendar GUI shown in illustrates a calendar window of any events occurring from approximately noon to 6 30 p.m. which is a partial day view of the calendar. According to some implementations the device is can display a partial day full day multiple day partial month or multiple month view in the show in calendar GUI as is necessary to show the duration of the invitation the user seeks to view in calendar form. For instance if an invitation covers an event spanning 5 days such as a personal vacation the show in calendar GUI can show the event in a week view so that any conflicting events can be viewed by the user. According to some implementations the calendar window is scrollable so that a user can advance the calendar to view other events that occur on the same or different days as the event identified by an invitation.

As described above a user can independently view one of several calendars stored in the device . For instance a user can view events created by invitations that are identified by the user to be work related. and respectively show example work calendar GUIs showing event blocks illustrating the time at which a work event is scheduled that corresponds to an invitation. In each of the GUIs the event blocks are illustrated in outline form because the corresponding invitation has not been accepted or rejected by the user. Therefore the device permits a user to preview an event in a calendar before accepting or rejecting an invitation for that event. According to some implementations the event blocks are illustrated in opaque transparent or shaded form to represent to the user that they have not yet been accepted or rejected by the user.

As previously described a user can identify a particular calendar that an invitation will be associated with via a calendar object . Because the device can include multiple separate calendars e.g. separate calendars for work or home events a user can identify one or more calendars an invitation should be associated with such that the event identified by that invitation is stored and viewed in the correct calendar. This allows a user to maintain separate calendars each having corresponding invitations.

In addition to selecting a single calendar for viewing the calendars GUI permits a user to view all events simultaneously in a consolidated calendar view by selection of an all events object . As shown by the shading in in some implementations each calendar may be associated with a particular background color. When events corresponding to multiple calendars are viewed simultaneously the background color may be used as a key so that events can be identified by the user as associated with a particular calendar. This is illustrated in and .

In the example of the 25of October is selected. The month mode includes an event window that show events occurring within the selected day. The event window is scrollable by a user e.g. by touch past and later periods of time within the selected day. As with the consolidated calendar GUIs in list and day mode each event is colored or shaded to indicate the calendar that event is associated with. For instance Dorothy s Birthday is colored to show that it is stored in the birthday calendar and the Agenda Meeting event is colored to show that it is stored in the work calendar. Additionally a user can view other months by selecting e.g. by pressing a previous month object or a next month object .

The invitation is presented to a user of the mobile device . According to some implementations the invitation is presented i.e. displayed to the user while the user is interacting with an application of the mobile device such as a web application or an e mail application. The invitation may be presented first as an invitation object that the user selects to view the full details of the invitation.

The invitation is associated with at least one of two or more calendars stored by the mobile device . In some implementations a user can identify one or more calendars that are associated with the invitation. This can occur for instance by the user selecting one or more calendars in an invitation GUI. For instance a list of calendars may be presented to a user which can toggle the calendars on or off to identify one or more calendars associated with an invitation.

Next the event identified by the invitation is displayed in the one or more calendars associated with the invitation . In some implementations the event is displayed as an impermanent one such as using an opaque shaded translucent outlined or translucent event block until the invitation identifying the event is accepted by the user. Thereafter the event may be displayed in solid form for instance without an opaque or translucent event block.

The first invitation is associated with a first calendar and the second invitation is associated with a second calendar. According to some implementations a user can identify one or more calendars associated with each of the first and second invitations. This can occur for instance by the user selecting one or more calendars in an invitation GUI.

A composite calendar is displayed for instance by the mobile device where the composite calendar includes the first event and the second event. According to some implementations the first and second events are displayed as respective event blocks in the composite calendar. Additionally each of the respective event blocks can be associated with or shaded a different color. The use of different colors allows a user to quickly identify the calendar an event is associated with which can assist the user in quickly determining what type of events are scheduled.

Each of the invitation objects are displayed to a user such as a user of the mobile device . According to some implementations the invitation is presented i.e. displayed to the user while the user is interacting with an application of the mobile device. Next each of the invitation objects are stored and or displayed in an invite list . According to some implementations the invitation objects are displayed in an invitation review GUI such as the invitation review GUI shown in . A user request to process at least one of the invitation objects is received . This can occur for instance when a user selects an invitation object from the invitation review GUI.

An event identified by an invitation associated with the at least one of the invitation objects is added to one of a plurality of calendars . The event is displayed in the one of the plurality of calendars. In some implementations the event is displayed as an impermanent one such as using an opaque outlined or translucent event block until the invitation identifying the event is accepted by the user.

The mobile device can be used to download trust certificates that can be installed in the mobile device . In some implementations the mobile device can download trust certificates via e mail and or from web sites. The trust certificates can be configured installed and viewed subsequent to being downloaded. Additionally the mobile device permits a user to store and manage multiple profiles where each profile can be associated with one or more trust certificates. Certificates and profiles can also be received at the mobile device by an update user initiated or automatic of the profile itself. According to some implementations the mobile device can prompt a user using an alert feature to request approval for an update or to identify that an update has or will occur.

Selection of the profiles object causes the mobile device to display a profiles list GUI such as the example profiles list GUI shown in . Profile objects representing profiles are shown in list form and each of the profile objects may be selected by a user to view profile information and optionally to remove the profile. illustrates a GUI including three profile objects . According to some implementations one or more graphics can be included in the profiles objects such as an arrow e.g. to indicate to a user of the mobile device that each profile object is selectable by the user.

Selection of a profile object from the profiles list GUI causes the mobile device to display a profile information GUI such as the example profile information GUI of . As shown in information about a profile including a description date of receipt and signor can be displayed in an information window . A list of the contents of the profile can also be displayed. For instance the iPhone for Genentech profile in includes 1 Exchange Account and 3 Certificates. A remove object permits a user to delete the profile. According to some implementations selection of the remove object causes the mobile device to present an alert to the user informing the user that removal of the profile will change settings on the device . Additionally a remove object or cancel object may be displayed to the user as a confirmation request prior to removal of the profile occurring. A more details object permits a user to view additional details about the profile. For instance certificate details shown in GUI shown in may be displayed to a user upon selection of the more details object .

The example install profile GUI shown in is similar to the profile information GUI of because it provides information about the profile in an information window including a description date of receipt and signor. A list of the contents of the profile can also be displayed. For instance the iPhone for Genentech profile in includes 1 Exchange Account and 3 Certificates. Additionally a more details object permits a user to view additional details about the profile.

Because the profile has not yet been installed an install object in the GUI permits a user to install the profile. Selecting the install object causes the mobile device to display an install profile alert window. The profile alert window permits a user to install a profile or to cancel installation by selecting an install now object or a cancel object. In some implementations the install profile alert window may appear in front of the install profile GUI as shown by the example profile alert window shown in . The profile alert window shown in includes an install now object or a cancel object . The install profile alert may appear as an opaque transparent and or shaded overlay.

The web install object can include a title of the invention in iPhone for Genentech and a message that the user can press a continue object to view configuration details and to install the profile. Alternatively the user can select a cancel object to cancel installation of the profile. If the user selects the continue object the user will be able to view details of the profile in a configuration details GUI and a certificate details GUI such as the example GUIs shown in .

Installation of a profile can occur from the example configuration details GUI via selection of the configuration object. For instance selecting the configuration object in the example configuration details GUI causes the mobile device to display the install profile GUI such as the install profile GUI shown in . Thereafter a user may proceed with the install as described above with reference to .

A user selection of one of the displayed trust certificate objects is received . The trust certificate corresponding to the user selected trust certificate object is then enabled for instance by the mobile device .

Next the first profile object and the second profile object is displayed in a GUI such as the GUI shown in . A user selection of either the first profile object or the second profile object is received . Thereafter the profile represented by the user selected profile object is enabled by the mobile device .

The first profile object and the second profile object are displayed in a GUI for instance in list form. For instance the first and second profile objects may be displayed in the GUI shown in . A user selection of either the first profile object or the second profile object is received . The mobile device will delete the profile represented by the user selected profile object after receiving a user instruction to delete the profile represented by the user selected profile object .

According to some implementations the mobile device allows different passcodes to be used for each profile stored by the mobile device .

As shown in the passcode may be hidden from view while it is typed into the text box using the keyboard . The passcode may be an alpha numeric passcode a digit passcode or a combination thereof. As is also shown in an emergency call object may be included within the keyboard to make an emergency call e.g. to 911 using the mobile device .

When the mobile device is locked the user may be requested to enter a passcode . The user can then enter the passcode for instance using a passcode lock GUI such as the example GUI described with respect to . The mobile device will verify the passcode entered by the user . For instance the mobile device can compare the passcode entered by the user with a list of passcodes to determine if the user has entered a correct passcode. The mobile device can also look up a profile associated with the stored passcode. For instance the mobile device can include a table of passcode profile pairs to identify associated passcodes and profiles. The mobile device can then permit the user to access to the device in accordance with the stored profile associated with the passcode entered by the user .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level GUI shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include GUI instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device . When the mobile device is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services for applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display object shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connection status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

