---

title: Method and devices for preventing restenosis in cardiovascular stents
abstract: Described herein are devices and methods fabricating devices having nanostructures that allow adhesion or growth of one cell type, such as endothelial cells, more than another cell type, such as smooth muscle cells. In particular, stent covers having such nanostructures are described, and methods for fabricating these stent covers. Also described herein are methods for optimizing the nanostructures forming the devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08007674&OS=08007674&RS=08007674
owner: TiNi Alloy Company
number: 08007674
owner_city: San Leandro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080729
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 952 818 filed on Jul. 30 2007 entitled METHOD AND DEVICES FOR PREVENTING RESTENOSIS IN CARDIOVASCULAR STENTS. 

All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Stents have become the treatment of choice for a variety of blood vessel diseases in humans and are in common use worldwide. From the beginning of their use it is known that an unacceptable percentage of cardiac stents become blocked after installation. This restenosis is a serious health problem a patient may be more seriously impaired after treatment than before. Restenosis occurs when smooth muscle cells in the blood aggregate into clumps and cause the stent to become occluded. Drug eluting coatings have been used to prevent clumping. Based on current data it now appears that these coatings are not a satisfactory solution. For example coated stents have been shown to cause blood clots several years after installation Brian Vastag Stents Stumble Science News Jun. 23 2007 Vol. 171 pp 394 395 . A patient receiving a coated stent must use blood thinners to prevent formation of blood clots that may dislodge from the region of the stent and cause stroke or heart attack. If the blood thinning treatment is interrupted the probability of stroke is greatly increased. Thus coated stents have therefore proved not to be a viable solution to the problem of stent restenosis.

It has recently been proposed that the restenosis of a stent is largely determined by whether the first layer of cells to grow on the surface of a stent are endothelial cells or smooth muscle cells Julio Palmaz Lecture at SMST conference 2003 Asilomar Calif. Comments not included in Proceedings of the conference . Described herein are stent covers which selectively enable endothelial cells to grow on their surface in comparison to smooth muscle cells as well as methods of manufacturing and using them.

Other methods of preventing restenosis have been developed. For example Palmaz describes a method using chemical affinities resulting from charges on the surface of the stent to regulate the growth of endothelial cells versus smooth muscle cells. U.S. Pat. No. 6 820 676 to Palmaz et al. teaches the use of surface relief patterns corresponding to crystal boundaries in metal to the enhance growth of cells. However these patterns are irregular in size and shape and so are not ideally selective for a specific protein. In WO07078304A2 Dubrow et al. suggest using fibers e.g. nanofibers or nanowires to form a substrate for use in various medical devices.

Stents using shape memory alloys e.g. Nitinol to form thin film stent covers are currently being developed. For example US 2008 0161936 to Feller et al. describes a stent including a thin film of shape memory alloy having different porosities in the deployed and undeployed configurations. A stent cover is typically placed over a stent to provide protection against debris that may be dislodged during installation of the stent. Described herein are stents or stent covers including a thin film coating or surface that preferably selects endothelial cells e.g. from the blood stream to grow on the inside surface of a thin film stent or stent cover compared to other cell types e.g. smooth muscle cells . This may be accomplished by forming nanostructures on the inside of the stent or stent cover. These nanostructures may be formed of one or more layers and may correspond to recurring patterns on endothelial cell membrane proteins. Endothelial cells that come in contact with the surface nanostructures may selectively adhere to them. For example endothelial cells as opposed to smooth muscle cells may recognize the surface structure by pattern matching or pattern recognition and adhere. This pattern recognition step is a key element in many molecular biology processes. The devices and methods described herein take advantage of this native molecular biological process e.g. cell surface interactions to influence the adherence of one type of cell e.g. endothelial cells in preference to other types e.g. smooth muscle cells . Thus surface nanostructures may be used to selectively enhance adhesion of endothelial cells over smooth muscle cells.

General methods of forming thin film nano scale layered substrates appropriate for controlled cell growth are described herein. In addition we describe particular applications of such nano layered controlled growth substrates. In particular described herein are implantable medical devices having nanostructures that allow adhesion and or growth of one cell type such as endothelial cells more than another cell type such as smooth muscle cells. For example stents and stent covers having such nanostructures are described. Methods for fabricating these devices are also described.

For example described herein are methods of controlling the growth of cells including differential or preferential growth of cells including the steps of patterning a substrate to have an organized nanostructure for cell growth and placing cells on the patterned substrate. Cells may be regulated or controlled in any number of ways by the nanostructured surfaces described herein including as mentioned differential growth e.g. of various different cell types cell guidance e.g. axon guidance cell migration etc. apoptosis inhibition of cell growth and the like.

A substrate may be patterned by a layering a first nanostructural material at least partially over a substrate b layering a second nanostructural material at least partially over the layer from step a c repeating steps a and b to form a plurality of alternating layers of the first nanostructural material and the second nanostructural material d forming a patterned layer on the outer surface of the plurality of alternating layers and e etching the nonstructural material to form a nanostructured surface. In some variations the step of layering the second nanostructural material comprises depositing a shape memory alloy at least partially over the first nanostructural material layer. The shape memory alloy may also be crystallized.

In general these substrates are different from other cell culture substrates because they are formed using lithographic procedures to have sides or walls that are alternating layers or striated layers of nanostructural materials e.g. metals alloys polymers etc. that can be repeated patterns may layers thick. For example one well or islet may have walls comprising five ten fifteen twenty twenty five fifty or even a hundred or more alternating layers of nanostructural materials. Each layer or sub layer may be extremely thin e.g. on the order of a few nm of thickness and differ layers may have different thicknesses. The geometry may be important. For example not only the thickness of each layer or sub layer but the overall shape of the well or islet formed as described in further detail below may affect the growth or development of the cells contacting them.

For example a method of forming a stent cover having a nanostructure includes the steps of forming a protective patterned layer on an outer surface of a sacrificial mandrel layering a first nanostructural material at least partially over the protective patterned layer depositing a shape memory alloy at least partially over the nanostructural material layer crystallizing the shape memory alloy removing the sacrificial mandrel and etching the nonstructural material to form a nanostructured surface surrounded by a shape memory alloy thin film.

Any appropriate shape memory alloy may be used including a nickel titanium alloy e.g. Nitinol and the method may also include the step of fenestrating the shape memory alloy.

The sacrificial mandrel may be formed of an etchable metal such as copper that may be removed prior to etching the nanostructured layer. A protective patterned layer may be formed on the mandrel in order to pattern the nanostructural layer by acting as a resist layer to protect it or a portion of it during processing to form the nanostructural layer particularly when the processing includes lithographic processing to form the nanostructural layer. The protective patterned layer may itself be formed on the mandrel photolithographically. For example the protective patterned layer may be formed by coating a chromium layer on the sacrificial mandrel applying a photoresistive layer and then exposing it to a negative or positive of the desired protective pattern. For example the protective patterned layer may be a checkerboard pattern to form islets of nanostructural material. In some variations a pattern of wells may be formed.

Any appropriate material may be used as the nanostructural material. For example the nanostructural material may include metals including alloys ceramics polymers including biopolymers peptides including polypeptides nucleotides composite materials or the like. The nanostructural material may be a core matrix that is doped with additional materials. In some variations the nanostructural material may be selected from the group consisting of Ti TiNi Au Ni Al Fe Pt Hf. Other materials having specific properties may be used including those taught by Haushalter U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 . In some variations the nanostructured layer includes a plurality of layers including sub layers . For example a second nanostructural material may be at least partially applied over the protective patterned layer. The first nanostructural material may be applied to a thickness of between about 10 nm and about 500 nm. Similarly the second nanostructural material may be applied to a thickness of between about 10 nm and about 500 nm.

Also described herein are stent covers including nanostructures to which endothelial cells adhere preferentially compared to smooth muscle cells. A stent cover may include a thin film of a shape memory material the thin film at least partially surrounding a nanostructural layer wherein the nanostructural layer comprises a layered nanoscale pattern having a shape and thickness that is selected so that endothelial cells preferentially adhere to the nanostructural layer as compared to smooth muscle cells.

As mentioned above the shape memory material may be a nickel titanium alloy e.g. Nitinol . The shape memory material may further comprise fenestrations.

In some variations the nanostructural layer comprises one or more pairs of sub layers wherein each sub layer is between about 10 nm and about 500 nm thick. The nanostructural layer may be at least partially made of a metal selected from the group consisting of Ti TiNi Au Ni Al Fe Pt Hf and may have a thickness of between about 10 nm and about 500 nm. In some variations the nanostructural layer comprises one or more sub layers having a thickness of between about 10 nm and about 500 nm. Other materials having specific properties may be used including those taught by Haushalter U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 .

Substrates devices incorporating substrates methods of forming substrates and methods of forming devices including the substrates are described herein. In general these substrates may be useful for tissue engineering. Surfaces such as those described herein that include structures having well controlled shapes and sizes may provide means for controlling the behavior of individual cells and collections of cells including tissues . Cells and even tissues may be controlled by controlling the arrangement of proteins.

Substrates including the patterned surfaces described herein including those patterned using shape memory materials may provide surfaces on which controlled cell growth is enabled. These surfaces may be configured to select for cell type e.g. enhancing the growth of certain cells compared to other cells . The structure of the surface may be the primary factor in regulating the cell behavior rather than the chemical or material properties of the surface as is commonly believed. The structure of the surface may also help manipulate the proteins on the surface of the cells and or in the intracellular compartments of the cell.

The surface structures described herein are controlled over the dimension of the nanometer to micron scale. This scale including the scale of the thickness of the layers may be selected and controlled in a range of tens of nanometers to hundreds of nanometers which is comparable to the size of most proteins. The scale of the micromachined structures e.g. microns to tens of microns is commensurate with the size of most cells. Thus the methods described herein may allow the selection of proteins which may be specific to certain types of cells and of cell size and shape which may also be specific to certain cell types. Taken together these two selection methods may be much stronger than selection by either method alone. Unlike existing methods which rely primarily on abrasion and have little or no control of the shape size pattern of the structures formed these methods may create ordered and predictable patterns of surface structures having a predetermined shape and size. Typically the layers forming the surfaces described herein are controlled to one percent or better.

The methods described herein may be used to create surfaces having organized arrangements of shapes. The shapes may be chosen based on the effect that the shape will have on cell behavior. For example an elongated shape may encourage cell division i.e. mitosis . A round shape may cause cells to undergo apoptosis i.e. cell death . Other shapes may have different effects such as encouraging migration or secretion. The thickness or shapes on the substrates described herein may also modify the expression of proteins on the surface of cells. For example ledges that are of the same thickness dimension as a particular protein may enable formation of protein structures that do not occur in nature. A protein may bind to the surface in such a way that it is elongated rather than folded. If many proteins lie adjacent to each other in a stretched out configuration they may resemble and may form a novel crystal structure.

As mentioned these substrates may be useful for growing tissues and organs. The location and spatial arrangement of individual cells in a multi cell pattern may provide the scaffolding for development of specialized tissues.

For example shows an exemplary pattern that may be formed on a silicon wafer or slide. In this example a thin film consisting of alternating layers of two materials e.g. TiNi and Ti are formed on a silicon die slide . In this example each layer may be vacuum sputter deposited to a thickness of between 10 and 250 nm. The thickness may be tightly controlled e.g. a thickness of 10 nm for that layer may be approximately uniform at 10 nm or it may be allowed to increase e.g. ramp increase across the layer. The actual thickness applied to the layer may be selected from the range e.g. 10 to 250 nm so that the final thickness is precisely known. Further the number of layers formed of each material e.g. TiNi Ti etc. may be controlled. Typically multiple layers e.g. 5 layers of each material 10 layers of each material 20 layers of each material 30 layers of each material etc. may be chosen. The number of layers and the thickness of the layers may help form the complete thickness of the wells. As described in greater detail below the side surfaces formed by these alternating layers which may provide a striated or stratified side surface may further create an ordered surface for cell or tissue growth. The different layers may be alternated in any desired pattern.

After deposition wells may be created in the thin film by photolithographic techniques including chemical etching. Wells may be between 1 and 10 microns in extent. The wells may have varying shapes and sizes to provide a variety of attachment conditions for cell development. illustrates one example of a layout of a pattern on a wafer as viewed from the macro naked eye scale. Each horizontal line in this example indicates a row of one type of pattern. show different patterns that may be used. The images shown in are enlarged to show the shapes.

For example the wafer shown in may be divided up into 20 mm 20 mm slides. Each slide has approximately 50 rows of approximately 20 wells. In the rows which may be included in the slide have rectangular openings and in the rows five circular openings. The scale of these openings is between about 10 and about 400 microns in diameter. For example the circles in range in diameter from 10 to 200 microns e.g. 10 20 40 100 and 200 microns .

This general technique for forming a surface by patterning a substrate may be applied to substrates having non flat e.g. curved bent cylindrical etc. surfaces. For example a medical implant such as a catheter stent or the like may include a nanolayered surface that is patterned appropriately to encourage and or discourage cell growth or other cell behaviors.

Described below are stent covers and methods of forming stent covers having a preferentially patterned surface. For example a method for determining a pattern that preferentially favors endothelial cell adhesion over smooth muscle cell adhesion is described. Although these methods are described with particular reference to stent covers they may also be applied to the surface particularly the inner or luminal surface of a stent itself or other structures including other medical devices. Further these methods and devices are not limited to surfaces favoring endothelial cell growth over smooth muscle cells. Surfaces helping to control including differential growth inhibition cell guidance apotosis etc. of any appropriate cell type may be formed using the methods and systems described herein. The patterned surfaces described herein may also be referred to as nanostructured surfaces nanostructured layers or nanotextured surfaces.

Referring to a stent cover may be formed having a pattern preferential for adhesion of endothelial cells compared to smooth muscle cells.

The patterned stent covers described herein may be patterned in the appropriate size scale for preferential adhesion of endothelial cells. It is desired that the size be highly selective providing a major advantage for endothelial cells to grow relative to smooth muscle cells. For example the scale of the patterns described herein may be in the nanometer range e.g. between 0.1 and 500 nm . It is believed that a regular pattern of 200 nm balls creates a surface that is selective for endothelial cells. Derick C. Miller Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part A 81A Issue 3 678 684 cited in Nanotechnology for Healing Damaged Vascular Tissues Thomas Webster www.scitizen.com screens blogPage viewBlog last viewed Jul. 20 2007 .

A nanostructured surface may be formed as a layer created on the inside of the tubular stent cover by forming a protective pattern e.g. by masking or otherwise protecting the material then depositing a layer or layers of material that will form the nanostructural surface and forming the outer shape memory material around the protective pattern and deposited layers. Once the shape memory material has been sufficiently prepared e.g. crystallized the mandrel may be removed and the nanostructural surface may be formed by etching the pattern using microlithography to etch around the protected material of the protective pattern.

A protective pattern may then be formed around the outside of the mandrel . As mentioned above the protective pattern or protective layer at least partially forms the pattern of the nanostructure by selectively protecting the material forming the nanostructural surface from etching. For example the protective pattern may be made from a thin layer of chromium e.g. 10 100 nm thick that is laid down on a cylindrical substrate and formed into a desired pattern. The protective pattern may be formed by photolithographic techniques as known in the art. For example the chromium layer may be coated with a photoresist material and patterned by exposing it to negative or positive of at least a portion of the nanostructural layer followed by removal of the unexposed photoresist etching to remove unprotected chromium and removal of the photoresist layer. In one variation the chromium layer forms the shape and pattern of islets of the nanostructural surface. For example the chrome layer may be patterned with a checkerboard design so that the islets forming the nanostructure will be columnar islets having a square cross section see e.g. . After forming the protective pattern the material forming the nanostructural surface layer may be applied over the protective pattern .

For example alternating layers of material may be deposited over the protective pattern as taught by Haushalter U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 . These layers may be referred to as sub layers of the nanostructured surface and will form the nanostructured surface. Any appropriate material may be layered on the protective pattern to form the nanostructured surface. In particular materials may be chosen based on their potential for encouraging adhesion and or growth of endothelial cells selectively compared to smooth muscle cells. For example the material may be a metal or alloy including but not limited to Ti TiNi Au Ni Al Fe Pt and Hf. Other materials having specific properties may be used including those taught by Haushalter U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 . In some variations the material is a doped material that includes a predetermined amount of some additional component. For example the material forming a sub layer of the nanostructured surface may be a metal or alloy that is doped with one or more transition elements alkali rare earth metals colloids etc.

In some variations the layer of material forming the nanostructured surface includes a plurality of sub layers of different materials. For example the nanostructured surface may include repeated layers comprising two or more sub layers. The material of each sub layer may be different. The material properties of each sub layer or layer may be different e.g. hydrophobic hydrophilic charge etc. in particular there may be a difference in their rate of removal by a particular etchant. Thus the materials forming the nanostructured surface may form one or more interfaces that can enhance attachment to endothelial cells or inhibit attachment of smooth muscle cells. In some variations the nanostructured surfaces include alternating sub layers that may be differently etched to include recessed portions.

As mentioned the sub layers forming a nanosurface may be repeated. For example a nanosurface may include a repeated motif of two or more sub layers e.g. sub layer A and sub layer B that are repeated n times so that the nanosurface comprises n layers of AB or BA depending on the order . The thickness of sub layer A and sub layer B may be uniform in each repeated layer or the thicknesses may vary.

The dimensions of the nanostructured surface may be set by the combination of the pattern e.g. the protective pattern the thickness of the material s applied to form the nanostructured surface and the etching used to form the nanostructural layer. In general the nanostructured surface has dimensions that are within the nanometer scale e.g. between 0.1 nm and 500 nm . For example the nanostructured surface may be a repeated pattern of nanostructural islets having a predetermined depth e.g. between 10 and 500 nm and cross sectional profile which matches the shapes formed of the protective pattern. For example the islets may have square rectangular triangular circular oval etc. shape. The predetermined depth of the islets may be determined by the thickness of the material s applied to the protective pattern on the mandrel e.g. the thickness may be between 10 and 500 nm . The spacing between the islets may also be determined by the protective pattern e.g. individual islets may be separated by between 10 and 500 nm such as about 100 nm . In some variations the nanostructure surface includes one or more wells etched to a shape and or dimension as desired. For example the wells may have a round oval rectangular or other shape and may be between about 10 and 500 nm deep.

As mentioned the shape dimension and spacing of the islets wells forming the nanostructure may be specifically chosen so that adhesion or growth of one cell type e.g. endothelial cells is favored in comparison to another cell type e.g. smooth muscle cells . Thus the shape depth and arrangement of the islets wells may be determined experimentally as described in the examples below.

Returning now to after the appropriate thickness of material forming the nanostructured surface has been applied a layer of shape memory material is then applied . Any appropriate shape memory material may be used particularly a shape memory alloy such as a nickel titanium alloy. One preferred material is Nitinol. The shape memory material is deposited as a thin film. When the desired thickness of thin film has been deposited the material may then be heat treated to crystallize . In some variations the thin film layer shape memory material is then fenestrated e.g. using standard MEMS photolithography . U.S. Pat. No. 6 533 905 to Johnson et al. describes one method of applying e.g. by vacuum deposition including sputtering a TiNi shape memory alloy as mentioned above and a patterned stent cover may be made using some of the teachings described therein. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 533 905 may be exploited to make a tubular stent cover.

The thin layer of shape memory material may also be patterned. For example the shape memory material may be fenestrated . Fenestrations may be biologically desirable e.g. allowing access or in growth .

The sacrificial substrate e.g. the mandrel may be removed leaving a cylinder of thin film material e.g. shape memory material with a protective layer e.g. chromium and the layer s of materials that will form the nanostructured surface inside the cylinder. The material forming the nanostructured layer s can be patterned by exposure to appropriate etchants .

The finished stent cover formed by the method of is a fenestrated tubular thin film of shape memory material e.g. Nitinol inside of which is a surface consisting of nanostructures that have appropriately structures e.g. layered islets to selectively grow a layer of cell including endothelial cells preferentially to another type of cell such as smooth muscle cells in the blood stream.

In general materials particularly the material or materials forming the nanostructured surface must be selected for compatibility of the other steps of the method. For example these materials must survive heat treatment without damage. Materials used must be compatible with deposition and processing of TiNi film including crystallization at 500 C. Further the etchants must be highly selective.

An assumption is made that there are different proteins in the cell membranes of smooth muscle cells than on endothelial cells. The experimental fact that endothelial cells grow preferentially on layers formed from spheres 200 nanometers in size appears to support this assumption Thomas Webster Nanotechnology for healing damaged vascular tissue Nanomedicine Laboratories Brown University Providence R.I. www.scitizen.com .

A further assumption is that a repeating pattern of layers having an appropriate distance of repetition each layer consisting of two or more sub layers differing in some quality will also act to enhance growth of endothelial cells. Since the appropriate distance is not known it may be determined by experiment as mentioned above. The examples below outline one method in which these parameters may be determined experimentally.

As used here the term nanostructural pattern may refer to a surface or layer having nanostructural features. In general this is a surface having one or more repeated motifs of nanoscale structures. These nanoscale structures may be repeated islets etched from the one or more layers of material or sub layers forming the nanostructural layer. Thus the nanostructural layer may be a plurality of columnar islets separated from each other by a street or channel having a predetermined depth. A cross section through an islet may be square rectangular circular etc. The sides of an islet may present stratified layers made up of different materials and the thickness depth of each layer as well as the material from which the layer is made may be chosen to select one type of cell over another type of cell e.g. endothelial cells over smooth muscle cells . These islets may therefore present a larger surface area of interface boundaries between different materials which cells may contact. Certain cell types may preferentially adhere to some interface regions.

One or more nanostructural patterns that are selective for endothelial cells over smooth muscle cells may be determined experimentally using the methods and devices described herein. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 to Haushalter et al. describes a method of enhancing the crystallization of certain species of proteins by providing heterogeneous nucleation sites consisting of multiple nanometer scale thickness layers with alternating characteristics. The methods of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 500 may be adapted to form nanostructural patterns that may be tested to determine nanostructural layers sub layers or patterns that preferentially support endothelial cells over smooth muscle cells. Nanometer scale regular patterns of alternating layers and or materials can be generated and systematically examined for interaction with both endothelial and smooth muscle cells to determine which one or more regions of specific patterns may act as scaffolds for specific types of cell e.g. endothelial cells by causing their cell membrane proteins to adhere to the surface more strongly than other types of cells e.g. smooth muscle cells . Successful application of this invention may result in a continuous layer of endothelial cells being formed on the surface of the stent cover.

In some variations a library of different nanostructures islets and or wells may be formed of layers of selected materials and thicknesses so that the optimum thickness and materials can be determined to be selective for endothelial cells. illustrates one variation of this. Initial experiments may be performed to determine whether endothelial cells can be separated from smooth muscle cells by graded thickness of metal on substrate. In one variation of this experiment selectivity may be determined by varying the size scale.

Endothelial and smooth muscle cells may be grown on substrates with raised islets of graded varying thickness or with wells or depressions of various depths. The substrates may be inspected to see if cells grow preferentially on islets of a particular thickness and or wells or a particular depth. The experiment may be performed by first preparing the substrate. In this example the substrate is a wafer onto which islets have been formed. The islets or wells nanostructures may be formed by sputter depositing one or more metal layers. The thickness of the metal layer may vary continuously from a few nanometers on one edge of wafer to about 500 nanometers on the other edge. After coating with layers of metal s the islets wells may then be formed by patterning them by photolithography and chemically milling them to produce regular patches or islets of metal as shown in which is a close up view of a region of the wafer and C which shows a cross section through a wafer. In this example islets near one edge of the wafer are about 500 nm and islets near other edge of the wafer are about 10 nm. Patterns in a particular region of a wafer may be kept uniform in length and width so that this is not a variable. For example the cross sectional shape of the islets on a particular wafer may be constant even though the depth is varying. The size of islets may be varied from one wafer to another to test the effect of cross sectional size. The cross sectional shape e.g. circular polygonal e.g. triangular rectangular square etc. may also be varied between wafers or on a single wafer to determine an effect. illustrates a cross section through a wafer not to scale showing exemplary islets having different thicknesses e.g. from 10 nm to 500 nm .

Different islet materials may also be tested. For example different metals may be tested including but not limited to Ti TiNi Au Ni Al Fe Pt and Hf. In some variations other materials may be used. In some variations the layers of material may be doped with one or more molecules. For example there are known cell adhesion proteins that may be incorporated as part of the layered material. Other materials include transition elements alkali or alkaline rare earth materials oxyacids nitrates acetates sulfates colloids etc.

To test pairs of wafers may be exposed to two different cell types or a single wafer may be exposed to two different cell types e.g. the wafer may be divided in half . For example one wafer or half a wafer may be exposed to endothelial cells while the other wafer or half of the wafer is exposed to smooth muscle cells. After an appropriate time the wafers may be inspected to determine if there is a significant difference in the way the two types of cells adhere and or grow. This method may help answer the question as to whether cells grow preferentially on a specific thickness of material as well as which materials may be preferred. In particular this type of experiment may help determine if there is a thickness and or material to which endothelial cells adhere or grow better than smooth muscle cells.

The test wafers described herein may be formed on a glass substrate. For example a 4 inch wafer having an oxidized surface to present a smooth glass surface may be used. A pair of wafers may each be identically deposited with the metal or other material in a thickness gradient from one side of the wafer to the other. For example the thickness may be varied from 500 to 10 nanometers. Afterwards the islets and or wells may be patterned. In one variation three patterns of islets wells having different cross sectional sizes may be formed per wafer. For example a square profile islet having a length and width of 1 mm 0.5 mm or 0.1 mm may be formed on each wafer. The spacing between each islet the street may be about 100 nm wide. The islets may be patterned by photolithography using a prepared mask exposed to the coated surface of the wafer after applying a layer of photoresist. The exposed photoresist may then be removed and the wafer etched. Afterwards the wafer including the formed islets may be cleaned to remove all chemicals etchant etc. from the wafer.

Cell growth or adhesion on the wafers may be tested in any appropriate way. For example cell growth may be examined after incubating with cells or after exposing to flows of cells. Wafers can then be examined for successful growth especially growth at a particular metal thickness. Statistics cell counts etc. may be taken to quantify any effects.

The sensitivity of these experiments may be enhanced as part of a second phase of experiments. Selectivity can be increased by making nanostructures e.g. islets wells etc. having multiple layers as shown in . Different materials may be layered onto the wafer in alternating layers . Materials having contrasting properties e.g. hydrophilic hydrophobic charged uncharged charges doped undoped and or different etching rates may be of particular interest. Multiple layered islets wells may be formed similar to the method just described above and similarly tested. In addition to tests against isolated cells materials may be tested in an animal model. For example rather than using a glass wafer as the test substrate the substrate may be a nickel titanium material. Thus a testing stent or stent cover may be formed having varying characteristics for the nanostructures as briefly described above and implanted into an animal model for testing. This test stent cover or stent may be retrieved after an appropriate time and histologically examined to determine which regions corresponding to which nanostructures had desirable properties with respect to endothelial versus smooth muscle cells.

The nanostructured layer may be formed of multiple layers or sub layers of material as described above and illustrated in . In some variations the nanostructured surface may be formed of multiple repeated sub layers. For example two layers can be repeated to form a layer that may be etched to form the nanostructured surface. The thicknesses of the two sub layers may be varied in two gradients across the surface of the substrate. For example the thickness of the first sub layer can decrease from the left to the right of the substrate. The thickness of the second sub layer can decrease from the back to the front of the substrate. The overall thickness of the nanostructured surface the depth of each islet may be kept approximately constant across the substrate e.g. by increasing the number of layers applied . This substrate may be used to test the effect of the thicknesses of each sub layer on cell adhesion and growth as described above.

In addition to the thickness of the nanostructure forming layer s the shape of the nanostructure s may also be varied. Differential etching may be used to form a superlattice having different interlayer spacing. For example one or the sub layers forming the nanostructured surface may be etched more than the other sub layer s . This results in a nanotextured 3 D surfaces in which one of the sub layers is undercut compared to the other sub layer forming indentations pockets ledges and or terraces along the surface. The amount of relative etching of each sub layer can also be varied to determine the effect on cell adhesion and growth as described above. For example by varying the etching times and or etch rates different amounts of surface etching may be achieved.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it is readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

