---

title: Modular component pressure application fixture
abstract: The present invention relates to a pressure application device for curing an adhesive on a component, particularly components of complex geometries. The device comprises a pair of jaws, at least one spring recessed into a cavity defined within the first jaw, and a cap. A first end of a spring partially extends into the cavity and a second end of the spring contacts the cap. When force is applied to the cap, the cap transmits the force through the spring to the first jaw. In order to limit the separation of the cap from the first jaw, a retainer is used.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08047252&OS=08047252&RS=08047252
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08047252
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention relates to devices used to adhesively bond gas turbine components. Gas turbine components can have very intricate geometries that sometimes require composite pieces to be adhered together in order to form the gas turbine component. In order to cure the adhesive a desired pressure needs to be applied to the composite pieces. Elevated temperatures also may be used in order to cure the adhesive.

Fixturing devices using mechanical tooling are often used to apply pressure to composite materials in order to cure an adhesive under desired conditions. However in some applications this curing process sometimes requires applying a specific known pressure to the composite materials. Such devices may not be designed to adequately accommodate the temperatures needed to thermally cure the particular adhesive. Additionally these fixturing devices may be bulky and cumbersome to use and may be too large to use in certain applications.

The present invention relates to a pressure application device for curing an adhesive on a component particularly components of complex geometries. The device comprises a pair of jaws at least one spring recessed into a cavity defined within the first jaw and a cap. A first end of a spring partially extends into the cavity and a second end of the spring contacts the cap. When force is applied to the cap the cap transmits the force through the spring to the first jaw. In order to limit the separation of the cap from the first jaw a retainer is used. Besides curing the adhesive with pressure the pressure application device can be placed into an oven to thermally cure the adhesive.

As shown in a fan inlet case has an outer hub an inner hub and a plurality of struts extending therebetween. Struts can each be covered with a fairing having an inside surface and an outside surface . Each strut has an outer surface . Inside surface of fairing is attached to outside surface of strut using an adhesive such as an adhesive of the type described in commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 11 494 830. Generally in order for adhesive to cure it must be subjected to pressure and heat. Furthermore the strict geometric limitations of fan inlet case make it difficult to apply pressure to fairing in order for adhesive to cure and secure fairing to strut .

As shown in pressure application device includes clamps and a first jaw a second jaw and a cap . First jaw and second jaw apply pressure to the workpiece in particular fairing . In order for the first jaw and second jaw to apply pressure to the workpiece a force applicator applies force to cap . The force applicator can be a mechanical device such as vices and clamps or hydraulic or pneumatic devices e.g. pressure cylinders . In the illustrated embodiment clamps and are each threadably adjustable cantilever C clamps. Clamps and are positioned on cap and second jaw to apply a force to cap . When this force is applied to cap cap transmits the force through a spring mechanism shown in and described in detail later in this description located between cap and first jaw to apply a controlled amount of pressure to the workpiece. The force transmitted to first jaw is a function of the distance cap moves toward first jaw and the spring constant of the spring mechanism.

First jaw has a front side and a back side and second jaw has a front side and a back side . First jaw and second jaw are configured so that pressure application device can fit within the tight geometrical restrictions of mounting locations of a component such as fan inlet case when the adjacent struts are occupied by clamps. In order to meet these geometrical restrictions the overall width of first jaw measured between front side and back side can be between about 0.64 cm 0.25 inch and 2.54 cm 1 inches . Portions of first jaw and second jaw can be tapered as shown in the illustrated embodiment to reduce widths in selected areas in order to further accommodate placement of device in geometrically restricted areas e.g. between struts near inner hub of inlet case . First jaw can be made from stainless steel titanium aluminum or other metallic materials. In the present embodiment first jaw and second jaw are substantially rectangular members although depending on the desired pressure profile they can have various other shapes.

Front sides of jaws each form a clamping surface. Front sides can include a layer of material such as an elastomer silicone or other polymer to create a soft face in order to not damage fairing or other workpieces when pressure is applied.

In the illustrated embodiment first jaw is connected to second jaw by support pieces and shoulder bolts . Support pieces each have holes where shoulder bolts are inserted. Holes are elongated slots so that the spacing between first jaw and second jaw can be regulated. Support pieces can have notches to allow the workpiece to be inserted between first jaw and second jaw with enough clearance.

Cap surrounds first jaw . In the illustrated embodiment cap is positioned between support piece and support piece . As shown in cap is a C shaped or U shaped cap that covers back side of first jaw . A first end of clamp is adjacent cap and a second end of clamp is adjacent the back side of second jaw . First jaw is connected to second jaw by support pieces and shoulder bolts . When pressure is to be applied to the workpiece clamps apply a force to cap and to back side of second jaw . When this force is applied to cap cap transmits the force through a spring mechanism shown in and described in detail later in this description located between cap and first jaw to apply a controlled amount of pressure to the workpiece. As this force is applied to cap first jaw moves relative to second jaw . The movement of first jaw relative to second jaw is controlled by support pieces .

As shown in pressure device also has retainers that are comprised of alignment rods and disc members . Each disc member is positioned onto an end of each alignment rod . Disc members and alignment rods could be a single piece such as a bolt or other fasteners. However disc members can also be adjustable along alignment rods . For example disc members can be threaded rings e.g. nuts and alignment rods can be threaded rods e.g. bolts . Retainers limit separation of cap from first jaw . Furthermore when no force is applied to cap cap abuts disc members of retainers .

As shown in each pressure transferring assembly is comprised of clamp first jaw cap alignment rod disc member and spring . Spring can comprise a plurality of springs that can be arranged in series in parallel or in combinations thereof to achieve various pressure profiles. Springs can be disc springs coil springs leaf springs or other types of springs. In the illustrated embodiment springs are disc springs which have a relatively low profile that helps reduce the overall thickness of the device . First jaw has cavity and springs are inserted into cavity . By recessing springs inside cavity the overall thickness of pressure device is significantly reduced. Cap has a hole and alignment rod is inserted through hole and into cavity . When inserted into cavity alignment rod is surrounded by spring . First jaw also has a hole wherein the shoulder bolt can be inserted through the hole in the support piece and secured in first jaw .

Pressure application device can have more than two pressure transferring assemblies located along first jaw . As mentioned earlier a pressure transferring assembly comprises clamp first jaw cap retainer and spring . Pressure application device can also have multiple caps along first jaw each cap having at least two pressure transferring assemblies.

In one embodiment pressure application device is configured to apply a maximum pressure between about 0 N mm 0 psi and 6.90 N mm 1000 psi to a surface e.g. to the fairing preferably between about 0.345 N mm 50 psi and 1.38 N mm 200 psi . Pressure application device also can operate during the thermal cure cycle of the adhesive at temperatures between about 17.8 C. 0 F. and 232 C. 450 F. preferably between room temperature about 22 C. 72 F. and about 148 C. 350 F. but could operate at temperatures greater than about 232 C. 450 F. with a limited life.

It is possible to place pressure application device into an oven not shown or other high temperature environment along with components being adhered e.g. fan inlet case in order to simultaneously apply pressure and heat to cure adhesive . Simple mechanical clamps alone like prior art C clamps would generally not provide precise controllable levels of force when placed in a high temperature environment but rather would tend to vary the applied force due to thermal expansion of the clamps and or workpiece. Moreover the use of force sensing equipment in a high temperature environment like an oven would be difficult and sensing equipment that could survive the high temperature environment tends to be cost prohibitive. Pressure application device utilizes springs to regulate applied force while still allowing consistent performance in high temperature environments and a relatively compact overall size.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the particular type and arrangement of springs used to regulate applied force can vary as desired for particular applications.

