---

title: Automatic non-junk message list inclusion
abstract: Method to effectively include a transaction electronic mail (e-mail) message to a non-junk mail list of an email account of a user. The method includes interacting with the user to start to complete a business transaction at a transaction web site of a party. A confirmation step is defined to be a second to last step in a plurality of transaction steps to complete the business transaction. A request associated with the defined confirmation step is provided to the user and the request includes adding a transaction e-mail address to the non-junk mail list. The e-mail account is further received from the user, and properties of the received e-mail account are identified. The method further interacts with the user to log-in to the received e-mail account and interacts with the user to include the transaction e-mail address to the non-junk mail list of the e-mail account of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380793&OS=08380793&RS=08380793
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08380793
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080905
---
Electronic mail e mail usages have become omnipresent in everyday use for online users. Commercial senders or merchants send many of the messages that users receive in their e mail accounts. These messages include account signup confirmations order confirmations receipts shipping status and newsletters. In other cases users wish to receive these sorts of messages in their inbox such as shipping notifications. On the other hand the users do not want messages to distract them or they are simply uninterested in receiving the messages such as a newsletter.

Currently users face at least the following unfortunate situations 1. E mail messages that the user wishes to see are forwarded to the junk folder. For example this includes messages relating to account signup confirmations account signup verifications order confirmation order status and shipping confirmation. 2. E mail messages that the user does not wish to receive but are legitimate are marked as junk such as newsletters sales e mail messages e mail messages that the users might be interested in.

In the first situation it is problematic because the merchants wish those messages are indeed delivered because the merchants do not wish to receive inquiries from users who are expecting to receive these types of e mail messages. In this case both the sender and the recipient have an interest in the message being delivered to the inbox without being marked as spam or junk. This is also especially true for any website that requires account signup verification.

Both parties would like a solution senders and recipients to these problems. Solutions to date have relied on rudimentary tools and don t work very effectively. For example users end up using a blunt tool such as the junk button and blacklist to make the problems go away which further complicates the ability to receive legitimate messages from the sender.

Some senders try to address this situation by including instructions on how to add the sender to the safelist or whitelist by joining the sender score certified program or by using SenderID. Unfortunately these solutions are not widely adopted and result in frustration on the user and sender s part. Some users may not follow the instructions correctly. Other attempts take a different approach by petitioning to the users in response to receiving the user s e mail address account. However many times users wish to use different e mail addresses for receiving such types of e mail messages from those used when signing up or registering the user accounts for online purchases.

Embodiments of the invention attempt to solve the problem by including a step in the workflow of a transaction to include the desirable e mail address in a non junk mail list of a user. Embodiments of the invention further leverage a model that has XML feeds e.g. feed flair to add the sender s address es to the recipient s safe list as well as configure any rules or filtering appropriately. Additional embodiments provide a standard uniform resource locator URL pattern that any third party can use to direct users to safelist the originator s email address. Any email provider can then expose this address and allow end users to safelist messages before they are sent to the recipient through a custom workflow.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a system to effectively include a transaction e mail address to a non junk mail list of a user according to an embodiment of the invention. The system includes at least one party and at least one e mail provider . In one example the party may be an online merchant that provides services and merchandize for sale to an online user . In another example the party may be a provider of online subscriptions that interacts with the online user . Also the at least one e mail provider may be the e mail provider for an e mail account for the online user .

The at least one party uses at least one transaction server for providing the services to the user. In one embodiment the transaction server may be server computer a cluster of server computers computers in a distributed environment or a cluster of networked loosely coupled computers acting in concert to perform tasks. In another embodiment the transaction server may be a computer illustrated in . Similarly the e mail provider may also employ a server which may be similar to the transaction server . For example the server may include a web server a database server a front end server a back end server or the like. In one embodiment a memory storage is accessible to the server which provides data storage for e mail accounts including the e mail account of the online user .

In one embodiment the user interacts with a user interface UI hosted or provided by the transaction server to access the services provided by the party . In one example the service may be an online purchase or online subscription. As such by interacting with the online purchase service or online subscription service the user may perform one or more of the following actions browse through product selection or offerings select a desirable product merchandize or scription title provide payment and shipping information when appropriate and confirm one or more previous actions before completing the transaction. In the online purchase example the merchant or party typically has a set of steps or a workflow of online purchase steps that one purchaser needs to complete before the online purchase is completed. These online purchase steps include at least one of the following selecting desirable items entering payment or shipping information entering optional gift or special request information entering discount or coupon information and confirming purchase order information. describe how embodiments of the invention can be incorporated into the purchase workflow in further detail.

Referring now to an exemplary diagram illustrates a typical online purchase order workflow having embodiments of the invention included therein. For example a web page describes a confirmation page step defined by the party . For example the confirmation page defines a step or a status in the transaction that the party determines the transaction has reached a stage where additional input from the user is beneficial in particular with respect to including transaction e mail addresses from the party . In this example the confirmation step stage is in the 3 stage denoted in the status with an underline underneath the number 3 . That is the user has started or initiated the process from step 1 through step 2 before reaching step 3. The web page also includes a summary of the order. In the situation involving online purchasing transactions the transaction e mail addresses include e mail addresses from the party relating to shipping notification order confirmation shipping update changes to orders order cancellation confirmation order returns and order refunds. In other examples such as online subscription transactions transaction e mail addresses include e mail addresses relating to subscription confirmation subscription cancellation subscription renewals etc. In a further example online forums or other services that require an online account use transaction e mail addresses to send e mail messages to users relating to account sign up confirmation account information change confirmation etc. Not only do these e mail addresses change over time but also users may change addresses overtime or users may decide to organize e mail accounts for different purposes. For example the user may wish to set up an account which receives all shipping confirmation e mail messages. In another example the user may use an account for order confirmation e mail messages.

As such embodiments of the invention effortlessly integrate aspects of the invention into the existing transaction workflows of the party by incorporating a dialog box or the like as a request on the web page to facilitate the inclusion of the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list of the e mail account of the user . By including the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list the party can ensure that whatever communication that the party wishes to communicate with the user via the transaction e mail address is delivered to the user . As such the box includes a first button which asks the user to indicate that he or she wishes to add the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list. A second button indicates that the user has already added the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list and can proceed to the next step in the workflow. Other buttons or controls that facilitate the request may be used or added without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring now to another page may be presented to the user to enter the e mail account where the user wishes to receive transaction relating information from the transaction e mail address from the party . The user may enter the e mail account by typing the complete e mail address username and domain name separated by a symbol in a field or by enter a username in a field and choose an appropriate domain name from a field . The party and the e mail provider may collaborate together to make the addition or inclusion of the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list even more effective. In one embodiment after entry of the fields or and the user selects a next button to proceed to the next stage. Upon receiving an indication from the user that the next button has been activated i.e. depressed by the user via an input device or touch the party transmits the information or data from the fields or to the e mail provider such that the e mail provider generates a link for the party to direct the user to log into the e mail account. The generated link identifies the e mail provider and a receiving component within the server that is capable to handle such a request of including the transaction e mail address to the user s non junk mail list. For example the generated link may be in the form of a uniform resource locator or uniform resource identifier URL link having at least the following information a domain of the e mail address an end point that processes the provided request and the e mail account e.g. username of the user . In one embodiment the URL link include the following pattern 

For example the may indicate the domain name of the e mail provider . may indicate the processing component or function that can process such a request. may indicate the e mail address of the user . may indicate the name of the party . may indicate the description of the party or the description of the transaction e mail address . may indicate a web page to which the user is returned to after the completion of the transaction e mail address inclusion. It is to be understood that other URL link pattern or link pattern may be used without departing from the scope of embodiments of the invention. Similarly the link delimiters e.g. or may be modified without departing from the scope of embodiments of the invention.

In another embodiment the e mail provider may provide the structure or the syntax of the link in advance and the party may insert the appropriate information before directing the user to log in into the e mail account. For example suppose the user chooses to enter the e mail address in the field the transaction server may parse the information in the field collected from the user by identifying the username and domain name from the entered e mail address. The transaction server may next place the appropriate information to the link according to the structure of the link. Similarly if the user chooses to enter the information via fields and the information collected in these fields will be placed in the link according to the structure thereof. In a further embodiment the party and the e mail provider may have a business relationship or arrangement where the user may have already logged into an enterprise domain such that the party and the e mail provider are just one of the services available within the enterprise domain. For example the enterprise domain may include an online market place where users can make purchases online and an e mail communication service where users can sign up e mail accounts and send e mail messages. In this situation after activating the next button the user may be taken directly to the e mail account of the user where junk non junk mail list is processed and the transaction e mail address from the party is automatically included in the non junk mail list.

In the situation where the user is directed to log in to the e mail account of the user the user may see a message indicating that the user is being directed to a log in page shown in of the e mail provider as shown in . describes a typical log in page in for the user to log in to the e mail account. In one embodiment the username of the e mail account of the user may be automatically entered by the e mail provider or the party based on the information collected in fields or . Once the user enters the required credentials the user may select a Log in button to log in to the e mail account or a forgot password button to ask the server for assistance to retrieve the password. In one embodiment the log in page is hosted by the server and the server maintains a status of the transaction that take place at the transaction server . For example the party and the e mail provider may have a further partnership where security or authentication schemes of secured transactions such as online purchases are seamlessly shared with each other. Under this partnership the user may smoothly transition from one web site to another web site. In another embodiment the state may be maintained in conjunction with a client computer such as a client computer in of the user . For example the state may be maintained in conjunction with the cookie set by the party and stored by the client computer e.g. when the user browses to the web site via a web browser . It is to be understood that to maintain and protect the privacy of the user appropriate notices are displayed subject to various settings and configurations of the client computer to the user before reading or accessing information that is already stored on the client computer of the user .

In another embodiment the location where the state information is displayed may be hosted and controlled by the party . In other words while the page may be hosted by the e mail provider the server may include appropriate code within the page to directly allow the party to place the state information on the log in page .

Referring now to the user is presented with a page to include the transaction e mail address to a non junk mail list . In one embodiment the non junk mail list may be also known as an e mail whitelist or safelist which is a list of e mail addresses that are deemed acceptable by the user . The user may choose a YES button to add the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list or a NO button to reject the inclusion of the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list . Once the user selects the YES button a page is displayed to the user indicating that the inclusion of the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list is successful in . The user may select a button to return to the party to complete the transaction. In an alternative embodiment the user may be automatically redirected back to the transaction server after a short delay e.g. 5 seconds in response to the information provided by the transaction server . For example the returned page represented by the may be the final stage or step in the transaction workflow of the transaction. In a further alternative embodiment the may be determined as a function of the state information . For example the state information may be linked to a and depending on the state or status the user is in the may change corresponding to the state information .

In an alternative embodiment the transaction server may further provide additional transaction e mail addresses to the user for consideration such as those shown in . For example an additional list may provide one or more transaction e mail addresses to the user for further consideration such as order merchant dot com or return merchant dot com . In one embodiment the additional list may be provided via a web feed such as an XML feed. It is to be understood that the web feed may be provided at a later time. For example the additional list may be written in an extensible markup language XML format such as the following 

The user is also presented with appropriate buttons and to indicate the decision to include additional transaction e mail addresses. In a further embodiment the e mail provider may provide a richer user experience by requesting if the user wishes to automatically file all messages sent from the transaction e mail address into a folder or folders within the user s e mail account that the user can periodically review and archive without having e mail messages from the transaction e mail address fill the inbox of the user s e mail account unintentionally.

Referring now to an order completion page illustrates the last step of the transaction workflow indicating the user has completed the ordering process. The state information correspondingly displays the correct state the state 4 which indicates that the user has completed or finished the ordering process. Advantageously embodiments of the invention introduce a workflow or process that will allow merchants or parties e.g. party to provide a seamless experience for adding the e mail address required for communicating with the customer to customer s safe list or the non junk mail list. In one embodiment an Add to Safe List button may appear on merchant s or party s web site and will lead customers to pages such as the page . The pages will allow confirming the addition of the incoming e mail address to the safe list specifying the time interval for allowing e mails from this merchant to come through and possibly selecting a destination folder for this type of e mail messages.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates operations to effectively include a transaction electronic mail e mail message to a non junk mail list of an email account of a user according to an embodiment of the invention. At a transaction server from a merchant or party interacts with the user e.g. user to complete a business transaction at a transaction web site of the party. The business transaction includes a plurality of transaction steps such as a transaction workflow . The transaction server defines a confirmation step being a step in the plurality of transaction steps to complete the business transaction at . In one embodiment the confirmation step may be the second to last step in the plurality of steps. At a request associated with the defined confirmation step is provided to the user. The request includes adding a transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list of the user s e mail account. The transaction e mail address is associated with the transaction e mail message and includes transaction information relating to the confirmation step. At the adding further includes receiving the e mail account from the user. Properties of the received e mail account are identified at and the identified properties include log in information of the received e mail account. At the e mail provider of the e mail account interacts with the user to log in to the received e mail account. At the e mail provider interacts with the user to include the transaction e mail address to the non junk mail list of the e mail account of the user.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN may be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Aspects of the invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. Further aspects of the invention include the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures such as to implement aspects of the invention.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

