---

title: Managing features available on a portable communication device based on a travel speed detected by the portable communication device
abstract: A portable communication device detects a current speed of travel of the portable communication device independent of any vehicle temporarily transporting the portable communication device. A speed based setting controller of the portable communication device compares the current speed to at least one threshold value set at the portable communication device. Responsive to the current speed exceeding the threshold value, the speed based setting controller automatically assigns a separate speed based setting to a current setting for each feature assigned to the threshold value, wherein each current setting for each feature designates the operability of that feature within the portable communication device, such that the current setting for each feature adjusts with a speed of travel as detected by the portable communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07881710&OS=07881710&RS=07881710
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07881710
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080218
---
This application is a continuation of commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 191 579 filed Jul. 28 2005 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates in general to portable communication devices and particularly to a portable communication device managing available features of the portable communication device based on a detected speed of travel detected by the portable communication device.

With the development of cellular communications and portable communication devices such as a cellular telephone a person can stay connected through a telephone conversation or checking electronic mail at the cellular telephone wherever cellular communication service is available.

Many people now carry a cellular telephone with them wherever they go. Not all environments however are suitable for all types of cellular telephone use. For example many people now rely on the ability to use cellular telephones while driving a vehicle. With the increased use of portable communication devices by drivers many accidents have been caused by the diversion created when a driver attempts to both drive the vehicle and locate and answer a ringing cellular telephone.

While some features have been added to cellular telephones to facilitate hands free use to reduce the distraction caused by the cellular telephone such as voice activated dialing and headsets other features such as video streaming and email only continue to expand the ways that a driver can be distracted by looking at a cellular telephone while driving. Further for many drivers while answering a call or viewing email is dangerous while in motion within a vehicle a daily commute may include multiple long stops at lights or other blocked traffic areas where a user could receive and place calls more safely current cellular telephone settings however merely allow a user to either enable or disable features such as call notifications. Thus if a user wanted to shut off a call notification feature while driving but receive call notifications when stationary the user would need to manually select to enable the feature when stationary and manually select to disable the feature when no longer stationary causing further distraction if the user decides to try to disable a call notification feature once traffic begins to move again.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for a method system and program for a portable communication device such as a cellular telephone to self detect a speed of travel independent of any mode of transportation and to automatically adjust the settings for features of the portable communication device based on whether the current speed of travel exceeds specified threshold values.

The present invention provides for a portable communication device enabled to manage operability of features of the portable communication device based on a detected speed of travel of the portable communication device as detected by the portable communication device.

A portable communication device detects a current speed of travel of the portable communication device independent of any vehicle temporarily transporting the portable communication device. A speed based setting controller of the portable communication device compares the current speed to at least one threshold value set at the portable communication device. Responsive to the current speed exceeding the threshold value the speed based setting controller automatically assigns a separate speed based setting to a current setting for each feature assigned to the threshold value wherein each current setting for each feature designates the operability of that feature within the portable communication device such that the current setting for each feature adjusts with a speed of travel as detected by the portable communication device.

In the present invention a portable communication device is accessible to a user in many different environments. A portable communication device may include but is not limited to any wireless or mobile communications device used for voice communications text messaging communications data communications and audio or video streaming. A portable communication device may be implemented as computer system such as the computer system described in which provides communication services via a wireless communication network. A single portable communication device may receive communication services from a single or multiple communication service providers.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is depicted one embodiment of a computing system through which the present method system and program may be implemented. The invention may be executed in a variety of systems including a variety of computing systems and electronic devices.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication device for communicating information within computer system and at least one processing device such as processor coupled to bus for processing program code and data. Bus may include low latency and higher latency paths that are connected by bridges and adapters and controlled within computer system by multiple bus controllers. Processor may be a general purpose processor such as IBM s PowerPC PowerPC is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation processor.

Processor is coupled directly or indirectly through bus to memory elements. During normal operation processor processes data under the control of program code accessed from the memory elements. Memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code such as random access memory RAM bulk storage such as mass storage device and cache memories not depicted which provide temporary storage of at least some program code to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. In one example the program code accessible in RAM includes for example an operating system and application software . Operating system includes program code that facilitates for example a graphical user interface GUI via a display and other output interfaces.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. For example in one embodiment operating system and or application software contains program code that when executed on processor carry out the operations depicted in the flow diagrams and flowchart of and other operations described herein. Alternatively the steps of the present invention might be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. Additionally RAM may include an application programming interface not depicted or other interface that provides extensions to enable application developers to develop application software that extend the functionality of operating system .

In addition the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing computer readable program code for use by or in connection with computer system or any instruction execution system. For purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. In one example a computer usable or computer readable medium is any apparatus that participates in providing program code to processor or other components of computer system for execution.

Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a flexible disk a hard disk a removable computer diskette random access memory RAM read only memory ROM punch cards or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include a compact disc ROM CD ROM a compact disc read write CD R W and a digital video disc DVD . In another example a computer readable medium may include mass storage device which as depicted is an internal component of computer system but may be provided as a device external to computer system .

A communication interface facilitates communication with network accessible systems such as server and telephony device through one or more packet switched networks such as packet network or telephony networks such as telephone network . One or more wireless communication service providers or local area networks enable and facilitate the connection between communication interface and Internet or telephone network . Packet network may refer to the worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use a particular protocol such as Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP to communicate with one another. Telephone network may include the public switched telephone system PSTN cellular networks and other networks such as the Internet which continue to be incorporated into the telephone system.

In general packet network telephone network and the wireless communication service providers enabling access to these networks use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry audio or data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals passing through communication interface which carry the audio or data to and from computer system are examples of forms of carrier waves transporting the information. In one example a remote computer such as server transfers the program code for the invention to requesting computer system by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a connection to communication interface .

In addition computer system typically includes at least one interface that facilitates communication or a communication feature implemented through an input or output device. These input output devices are coupled to computer system either directly or indirectly through wired and wireless connections to multiple input output I O controllers adapters and expansion slots coupled to one of the multiple levels of bus . For example an audio output device and audio input device are connectively enabled on bus for controlling audio outputs and inputs. While in the embodiment audio output device and audio input device are individually distinguished a single interface such as a wireless or wireline headset may incorporate both audio input and audio output features. A display device is also connectively enabled on bus for providing visual tactile or other graphical representation formats. A touchpad is connectively enabled on bus as an interface for user inputs to computer system . A vibration motor is connectively enabled on bus for causing the housing of computer system to vibrate to provide output of call notifications such as incoming calls new voice mails and new electronic mail alarms and other indications. A GPS receiver is connectively enabled on bus for passively receiving satellite signals that are then used by operating system and or application software to detect a current location and current speed of travel of computer system . In alternate embodiments of the present invention additional input and output devices may be added.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. Furthermore those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

With reference now to a block diagram depicts one embodiment for self detection of current speed by a portable communication device. According to an advantage a portable communication device detects a current speed of travel of the device by sampling a location at a particular rate of time calculating a distance traveled from a last sampled location to a current sampled location and then calculating a current speed of travel between the last sampled location and current sampled location over the particular rate of time. In particular a speed detection controller within portable communication device enables portable communication device to detect a current speed of travel. Speed detection controller may detect a current location and calculate a current speed in multiple ways.

In one embodiment speed detection controller detects a current location by detecting at a built in GPS receiver such as GPS receiver signals from multiple GPS satellites such as GPS satellites and . GPS receiver calculates the distance of GPS receiver from each of GPS satellites and based on the signal received from each GPS satellite and calculates a location by intersecting the distance calculations. It will be understood that GPS receiver may detect only a single signal from a GPS satellite or may detect more than three signals and regardless of the number of signals GPS receiver may calculate a location based on those signals received.

In another embodiment speed detection controller detects a current location by detecting a distance between portable communication device and one or more wireless service towers and antennas such as wireless service tower and . Speed detection controller may be enabled to detect the distance from wireless service towers and or the wireless service provider may detect and transmit the distance of portable communication device for detection by speed detection controller .

In addition to calculating a current speed from the rate of movement from multiple locations at multiple points in time speed detection controller may detect a current speed from a pace of a person carrying portable communication device . In one example portable communication device includes built in pace sensor that enables speed detection controller to detect a pace of a person carrying portable communication device . In another example portable communication device is enabled to detect a wireless signal transmitted from a speed and distance monitor attached to a person carrying portable communication device . For example a foot mounted device for detecting speed and distance of a runner may transmit a signal to portable communication device indicating data that enables speed detection controller to calculate a current speed.

It is important to note that speed detection controller may calculate current speeds by calculating an average speed over a particular period of time or the average speed over a particular distance for example. In addition it is important to note that the current speed calculated by speed detection controller may include both horizontal and vertical speed elements.

Further it is important to note that portable communication device may detect other types of information from other information sources that enables speed detection controller to calculate a speed of travel of portable communication device . In addition it will be understood that portable communication device may detect signals indicating speed from a satellite transmission a service provider transmission a vehicle transmission or other transmitter with which speed detection controller may supplement a current speed calculation or from which speed detection controller may infer a current speed of travel of portable communication device .

With reference now to a block diagram illustrates one example of components of a portable communication device. It will be understood that in addition to the components depicted additional components may be implemented within a portable communication device to facilitate communication and other functions of the portable communication and that each component may require both software and hardware elements for implementation.

In the example in addition to speed detection controller as described with reference to portable communication device includes a communication controller . Communication controller performs the functions required for enabling communication to and from portable communication device via at least one communication network such as packet network or telephone network as described with reference to .

In addition portable communication device includes a device features controller . Device features controller regulates the performance of features of portable communication device . In particular device features controller regulates the performance of features of portable communication device according to the current setting for each feature in device feature settings from among the multiple available settings for each feature. Thus the current setting for each feature in device feature settings designates the operability of each feature.

Features of portable communication device regulated by device features controller may include but are not limited to the different types of communications enabled by communication controller and the interfaces facilitating input and output for communications and notification of incoming communication requests. For example device features controller may control the settings for the features provided through display touchpad audio output device audio input device and vibration motor . In addition features of portable communication device may include other functions of portable communication device with multiple available settings in device feature settings .

Device features controller facilitates user selection of current settings for device feature settings . Device features controller may provide menus of selectable settings for each feature or facilitate selection through other available selection formats. For example for a call notification feature a user may select current settings from a menu to enable a ring tone at a low volume for each incoming call and to disable vibration for each incoming call.

In addition to user specified feature settings according to an advantage a speed based setting controller automatically sets current settings within device feature settings based on current speeds. In particular speed based setting controller receives the current speed of portable communication device from speed detection controller and compares the current speed with the entries in speed based thresholds .

When speed based setting controller receives a current speed that exceeds a threshold in one of the entries in speed based thresholds speed based setting controller adjusts at least one current setting for a feature in device feature settings as triggered by the current speed exceeding a threshold. In addition when speed based setting controller detects the current speed fall below a threshold in one of the entries in speed based thresholds speed based setting controller may adjust at least one current setting in device feature settings to the original non speed based setting or to a setting designated in speed based thresholds .

Speed based thresholds may include user selected entries default manufacturer setting entries and downloaded threshold entries. Speed based setting controller may facilitate user selection of entries in speed based thresholds and facilitate searching for and downloading threshold entries to speed based thresholds . Further speed based setting controller may learn speeds at which different features are safe for a user by prompting the user to indicate whether the user could use a particular feature safely at different speeds.

It is important note that although speed detection controller communication controller device features controller and speed based setting controller are depicted individually these controllers may be considered as a single component or functionally integrated into a single component. It will be understood that each of speed detection controller communication controller device features controller and speed based setting controller may be separately downloaded to portable communication device and may be provided by a single vendor or multiple disparate vendors. Further it will be understood that speed based thresholds and device feature settings may be implemented through multiple types of data storage structures and files and that speed based thresholds and device feature settings may be integrated into a single type of data storage structure.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates examples of types of thresholds set in the speed based thresholds. It will be understood that additional types of thresholds may be included and that each type of threshold may include one or more entries.

In the example speed based thresholds includes audio thresholds . Audio thresholds may include for example thresholds values for adjusting whether each type of audio feature is enable or disabled a volume of the audio feature and other settings available for each audio feature. Audio features may be provided through built in and external audio input and output devices. In one example an entry in audio thresholds may automatically disable a built in speaker and only enable a headset speaker once the current speed exceeds 10 miles per hour.

In addition in the example speed based thresholds includes call notification thresholds . Call notification thresholds may include for example threshold values for adjusting which types of call notification features are enabled and disabled for an incoming call the volume intensity and number of repetitions of enabled call notification features and other settings available for each call notification feature. Notifications of upcoming calls may include for example a vibration an audible ring tone a text indicator or a flashing screen. In one example an entry in call notification thresholds may automatically disable all call notifications once speed based setting controller detects a speed greater than 15 miles per hour.

Speed based thresholds also includes emergency indication thresholds . Emergency indication thresholds are threshold values that when detected in succession indicate a possible emergency and specify setting adjustments to aid a person needing to communicate in the emergency. For example speed based thresholds indicative of a car wreck may include detecting a change in horizontal speed from 50 or more miles per hour to 0 miles per hour in less than five seconds with an elevation change of more than 40 feet. The settings for speed based thresholds indicative of a car wreck may include automatically turning on a microphone and triggering voice activated dialing for example.

Further speed based thresholds includes calendar based thresholds . Calendar based thresholds are thresholds values based on a time of day or scheduled event. In one example if a calendar based threshold may specify that when a calendar indicates work hours a particular selection of thresholds are selected. In another example if a calendar based entry includes a flight schedule then general flight based settings are applied surrounding the scheduled flight time.

Speed based thresholds also includes activity based thresholds . Activity based thresholds are threshold values specified by type of user activity. For example different thresholds may be selected based on whether a user is driving flying walking cycling mountain climbing or other types of user activity. As previously described a calendar may indicate the type of current activity. Alternatively a user may select a current activity from a menu facilitated by speed based setting controller . Further as with emergency indication thresholds activity based thresholds may specify movement that when detected indicates a particular type of exercise.

In specifying each threshold value in the different types of speed based thresholds the threshold value may be represented by a numerical speed by a type of speed by a range of speed or other settings that can be compared with a current speed. For example a user may designate a thresholds value at 20 miles per hour. In other example a user may designate a threshold value at 4 miles per hour greater than a walking pace speed where activity based thresholds includes the speed value for a walking pace.

With reference now to an illustrative diagram depicts an example of an interface for a user to teach the portable communication device the speeds that the particular user operates at in association with different activities and to select thresholds based on the current speed. In the example a display interface includes text indicating the current speed as 4 miles per hour at reference numeral . In addition display interface includes a selectable menu with multiple options for capturing the current speed and setting the current speed to a threshold value a walking pace or another activity. It will be understood that selectable menu may include additional options for teaching portable communication device about how the user wants the portable communication device to function at the current speed.

In the example as indicated at reference numeral by a selection arrow a user selects to assign the current speed to the activity of walking pace . The current speed would be added as the speed for a walking pace in activity based thresholds . A user may select multiple speeds over time in association with walking pace such that speed based setting controller can learn an average walking pace for the user and may determine the walking pace associated with different activities in a calendar or with different times of day for example.

In particular detecting a walking or running pace is important so that a user may set a first threshold at a speed that is greater than a walking pace and therefore indicative that the user is riding in a vehicle and not walking or running. For example if a walking pace for a particular user averages 3 to 4 miles per hour than the user may set the first threshold to a speed slightly faster than the walking pace with feature settings intended to reduce distractions while a user is driving.

In addition in the example if a user selected the option from selectable menu to set a particular speed as a threshold value then speed based setting controller may further prompt the user to select a type of threshold and to select feature settings for the threshold value. By enabling a user to select a current speed as a threshold value a user may customize the settings at speed thresholds relevant to that user.

Further in selecting any of the options from selectable menu speed based setting controller may further prompt the user to select whether the current speed sampling is to be stored or whether the variances in the speed over a longer range of time should be sampled and stored.

Referring now to an illustrative diagram illustrates examples of combined thresholds settings for audio thresholds and call notification thresholds within a display interface. As illustrated speed based setting controller facilitates a display interface including the thresholds and feature settings combined from audio thresholds and call notification thresholds . It will be understood that in alternate embodiments other types of thresholds from among speed based thresholds may be graphically combined for display to a user. Further it will be understood that speed based setting controller may implement other presentations of data stored in speed based thresholds .

In the example display interface includes threshold values and where each of the threshold values is specified by a particular number of miles per hour. It will be understood that each of threshold values and may alternatively be specified by a type of activity or other variable with an associated speed.

At least one feature setting is associated with each of threshold values and . In the example feature settings with a indicate settings triggered by exceeding the threshold value. For example at 10 mph a feature setting indicated at reference numeral requires disabling all call notification features. In addition in the example at 20 mph a feature setting indicated at reference numeral requires enabling only a headset for audio input and output for any ongoing calls. Further in the example at 50 mph a feature setting indicated at reference numeral requires disabling alarms.

A user may add additional threshold values by selecting selectable button which triggers a prompt for a user to specify the threshold value. In addition a user may add additional feature settings by selecting selectable button which triggers a prompt for a user to specify or edit a feature setting for a particular threshold value.

With reference now to an illustrative diagram depicts an example of the settings in the device feature settings and adjusted by the speed based setting controller over the path of a vehicle. In the example a user carries portable communication device with the thresholds set in display interface in a vehicle . It is important to note that vehicle may include transportation including but not limited to automobiles buses trains airplanes and other modes of transportation. In addition it is important to note that although the example is depicted with vehicle traveling in along a horizontal axis the portable communication device traveling within vehicle may detect both horizontal and vertical speeds.

In the example a portable communication device initially sits still within vehicle such as when vehicle is waiting in traffic. The current settings within device feature settings indicate at reference numeral that the non speed based device settings enable call notifications through ring tones and a vibrating feature and audio input and output through a built in speaker and microphone or a headset. It will be understood that although not depicted in the example device feature settings may include settings in addition to those depicted at reference numeral .

In the example device feature settings includes the non speed based device settings and a column of speed based device settings where device features controller yields to speed based device settings when specified. In an alternate embodiment speed based settings may replace non speed based settings in device feature settings . Further in an alternate embodiment speed based setting controller may take over control of a device feature when a speed based setting is triggered instead of adjusting the setting in device feature settings .

Thus as the vehicle accelerates after a light at 10 mph speed based setting controller adjusts the settings in device feature settings to include speed based device settings that disable all call notification features and enable only the headset for voice communications as illustrated at reference numeral and at 20 mph speed based setting controller adjusts the settings in device feature settings to include speed based device settings that disable all communication interfaces except for a headset as illustrated at reference numeral .

In the example once vehicle reaches 25 mph vehicle begins to decelerates. During deceleration at 20 mph speed based setting controller adjusts the setting in device feature settings to enable the vibrating call notification feature as indicated at reference numeral . At 10 mph however speed based setting controller removes the speed based settings in device feature settings as illustrated at reference numeral .

Referring now to a high level logic flowchart depicts a process and program for adjusting feature settings of a portable communication device based on current speeds passing threshold values. In the embodiment the process starts at block and thereafter proceeds to block . Next block illustrates comparing the current speed with the speed based threshold values. Thereafter block depicts a determination whether the current speed is in a sequence of speed changes that indicates an emergency when compared with the emergency based speed threshold values. If the current speed is in a sequence of speed changes that indicates an emergency then the process passes to block . Block illustrates adding a speed based setting for features in the device feature settings according to the settings for the emergency situation indicated and the process ends. In addition although not depicted when emergency settings are added to the device feature settings a user may be prompted to indicate the addition and with a single selection remove the emergency settings.

Returning to block if the current speed is not in a sequence of speed changes that indicates an emergency then the process passes to block . Block depicts a determination whether the current speed exceeds a threshold value. If the current speed exceeds a threshold value then the process passes to block . Block depicts adding a speed based setting for each feature assigned to the threshold value on acceleration and the process ends.

Returning to block if the current speed does not exceed a threshold value then the process passes to block . Block depicts a determination whether the current speed has decreased below a threshold value. If the current speed has not decreased below a threshold value then the process ends. Otherwise at block if the current speed has decreased below a threshold value then the process passes to block .

Block illustrates a determination whether there is a feature assigned to the threshold value on deceleration. If there is a feature assigned to the threshold value on deceleration then the process passes to block . Block depicts adding a speed based setting for each feature assigned to the threshold value on deceleration. Otherwise at block if there is not a feature assigned to the threshold value on deceleration then the process passes to block . Block depicts removing speed based settings set on acceleration through the threshold value and the process ends.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

