---

title: Dynamic and versatile notepad
abstract: Method for providing a versatile notepad for social networking and interactions with a plurality of users. An input content is received from a user. The received input content is analyzed based on at least the following expression types: expression indicative of time, expression indicative of a location, expression indicative of a statement, expression indicative of an individual, an expression indicative of a list, and a combination of expressions indicative the time, the location, the statement, the list, and the individual. The analyzed information is dynamically converted to a communication object as a function of the expression types. The communication object is rendered to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131778&OS=08131778&RS=08131778
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08131778
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080229
---
This application is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 968 035 filed Aug. 24 2007 the entire text of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Among PC and mobile based social networking text messaging and email social communication and information sharing have evolved to enable users to stay connected wherever they are. What is still lacking however is a system that ties all of these avenues together in a seamless and rich way leaving gaps in group communication and parsing context sensitive information. Some of the fundamental limitations in the mobile space specifically are messages are plain text and cannot accommodate rich media graphics HTML the messages are limited by size 160 characters SMS messages do not offer the ability to easily coordinate with multiple people SMS messages lack context retention SMS messages are a one time event web based experiences and mobile email do not integrate with SMS and therefore require all parties to have data service sharing and storing content mobile content outside of the phone is a generally cumbersome process. In other words the user must create content based on the pre determined application or software capabilities in order to generate content from a mobile device.

The mobile market is ready for a type of disruptive technology that encapsulates the essence of today s communication models available on the PC for the mobile phones and permits a communication s recipient to interact with and store this communication in multiple ways.

Embodiments of the invention provide a dynamic conversion of input content from the user to discrete communication objects based on the context of the content. Aspects of the invention remove the necessary and customary association of data types or data objects according to the applications or software the data type associated therewith. For example in creating a new appointment a user must go to a scheduling or calendar organizing software in creating an appointment. Similarly the user must use an e mail or a message communication software or application or a web service in order to send an e mail to a recipient.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention enhance the experience of a user of a portable or mobile device by providing a versatile notepad that accepts and recognizes a combination of already familiar entities such as an email message calendar item task item post it note wiki or journal item. Embodiments of the invention convert or morph the received input content into one or a combination based on the metadata assigned by the user or the input data content.

In addition embodiments of the invention provide at least one or more features and or benefits below 

1. providing a dynamic and flexible data structure component that encompasses many properties such as time place and people or the like. Table 1 illustrates an exemplary outline showing the possibilities of benefits of aspects of the invention.

3. providing a rich data structure with many attributes. In addition The SMS user will also be able to interact with the note by using a set of commands. However alternative embodiments of the invention may also maintain the option to have the data structure providing the basic information when a user s device does not support the full richness. For example an SMS user may send a 120 character message the first 120 characters of the note plus up to 40 characters of URL to a WAP page that contains the full fidelity information based on aspects of the invention 

4. providing an option to explicitly send the content to recipients or implicitly share the content with other users 

5. sharing input content to others such that others may browse or select other people s notes with permitted access and subsequently add to their own collections. Aspects of the invention may establish a platform for a living entity that can be modified over time 

8. enabling various levels of privacy stamps public friends or private especially in the embodiments where sharing of the input content is enabled or activated 

10. enabling the input content be presented and or updated via representations in other online services such as maps contacts calendar blogs social networks etc or in similar services from third party providers.

In one embodiment input content to be stored in the content field from the user includes data having a variety of content context or subject matter. For example the input content from the user may be a list of to do tasks such as items to be purchased from a grocery supermarket. In another embodiment the input content may be a brief text note for setting up a lunch appointment between the user and a user . As such the content field stores all information or data associated with the input content. The data structure further includes a metadata data field for providing information about the content field . In one embodiment the user may enter the data or information in the metadata field manually. In another embodiment the metadata field may be automatically filled or included with data as the input content is dynamically converted to a discrete communication object.

In one embodiment information or data in the content field is further converted or analyzed during a conversion process component engine such that parts of the content field is further entered into a first data field a second data field and a third data field . In one example the conversion process or component or engine analyzes the content in the content field and based on the context of the content the conversion engine converts the analyzed content to the first data field the second data field or the third data field . For example the first data field may store content information expressed relating to time such as 3 00 pm Tuesday January 5 year 2008 tomorrow tonight next weekend or the like. The second data field may store content information expressed relating to a location such as a restaurant one s house a movie theatre a name of a restaurant a city a country an address of a location or the like. Also the third data field may store content information expressed relating a person such as a name of a person one s relatives or the like. It is to be understood that other fields may be included or used storing a specific type of information may be used without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

The conversion engine further analyzed the content information in the stored first data field the second data field and the third data field to generate discrete communication objects . For example the discrete communication objects may be an electronic mail object a note object a calendar object an instant messaging object a task object a SMS message object or the like. In an alternative embodiment the discrete communication objects may be presented within the same display space. In another embodiment the discrete communication objects may individually displayed or provided in separate display spaces to the user. For example the discrete communication objects may be generated while a user is composing another discrete communication object. Additional examples of various operations of the conversion are exemplarily illustrated in .

In another embodiment the computer storage medium may be part of a system that enables dynamic note conversion to intelligent discrete communication objects. For example the system may be part of a portable device having a display a processor or micro processor a memory storage area a user interface and other connectivity interfaces. The system may incorporate the data structure for storing content received from the user via the user interface of the portable device and the conversion engine performs its functions to convert the input content to discrete communication objects. In a further alternative embodiment the data structure may be part of a social network where the parts of or entire data structure may be shared among different users. In this embodiment an access field may be used to denote or indicate the various sharing settings or status. For example the access field may include status information such as private public public only to a specific group of individuals or the like. In another embodiment the user may determine the members in the specific group for sharing.

In one embodiment the dynamic conversion of the input content also referred to as dynamic notes below may be a fundamental element for enabling social networking for mobile users. It may be a cloud based text entity that may be enhanced with additional properties for enriched metadata. This dynamic and multi purpose capability may change its behavior to accommodate the user s needs. The dynamic notes can morph into a calendar item email message SMS message or a mini wiki based on the metadata that it has example time location and people . In another alternative embodiment the dynamic notes can interact with other online services accessible via phone or PC. The dynamic notes also have a permissions property that permits them to be viewable to and jointly editable by a user a specific list of contacts and or the general public. In another embodiment content in the dynamic note can be created by one participant multiple participants or the final note can be a result of voting on various aspects of the note.

Furthermore dynamic note is an augmentation of today s messaging technology by enabling dynamic construction of the content based on metadata. In one embodiment a note may be a basic currency of a Catalyst ecosystem. Much like a paper note a Catalyst note is a container that holds at minimum a what an editable piece of text that conveys information of some kind self expression a directed message for example . However instead of sending new notes back and forth and therefore quickly losing context the same note is passed back and forth adding to it each time. This is in essence threaded SMS.

Additional information can be added to a note at anytime such as a specific location where and time when which may be done through editing the note s core text or by adding richer data via the stamp . The stamps which are essentially specific structured information may contain a range of information types examples of which are a date time a location request for RSVP request for a vote on attributes and others. The goal of individualizing each stamp into an individual unit is to make adding information more palatable than if the user were presented with a form.

Users may then send and or share the core text of the note and its optional attributes with individuals from the Windows Live phone s contact list who may also be permitted to edit attributes of the note independently.

In an alternative embodiment the dynamic note may contain a core functionality and simplicity of an SMS message but allow additional structured data to be added as well.

In one example illustrate exemplary screen displays illustrating a versatile or dynamic notepad according to an embodiment of the invention. For example in a user enters an input content MEETING WITH DAVID AT 2 00 PM on the dynamic notepad interface as a note to himself just like a paper notepad one frequently uses. Embodiments of the invention dynamically convert and morph this simple notepad content to a calendar appointment as show on . In other words the user does not need to separate execute an application that organizes a calendar of events of the user. The user only needs to execute the dynamic notepad and enter the needed text and the desirable end result is achieved.

In another example the user enters a series of items in a list on the dynamic notepad in . The dynamic notepad converts the list to a list in a to do list for the user in . Similarly illustrates a note from the user indicating a reminder to send e mail to David to discuss project deadline. The dynamic notepad in converts the content to an e mail message ready to send to David with David s e mail address retrieved from the user s contact list. In one embodiment various discrete communications objects may be presented on the same display space as illustrated in .

It is to be understood that other examples can be achieved without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

Once the determinations are made the analyzed information is converted to a communication object as a function of the expression types at . For example for an expression of time and or an expression of an individual may be converted to an appointment communication object. Similarly an expression of time and or an expression of a statement may be converted to a calendar communication object or a task communication object. At the converted communication object is rendered to the user. In one embodiment the converted communication object may be rendered to one or more users with varying degree of access rights or privileges. For example the calendar communication object may be shared with the user s friends family members or other individuals. In another embodiment the communication objects may be rendered or displayed to the user or users in combination or in conjunction with other communication objects such as .

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but maybe connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN may be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Aspects of the invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. Further aspects of the invention include the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in the figures to implement aspects of the invention.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

