---

title: Podblasting-connecting a USB portable media device to a console
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for aiding users of game consoles in creating custom gameplay data for a music video game based on audio data (e.g., songs) stored on a portable media device. Specific embodiments provide a game console application that can receive a song at a game console from a portable media device, and receive user inputs to generate custom gameplay data associated with the song. The gameplay data may then be saved to the portable media device and later accessed, either at the same or a different game console, to allow a user to play the music video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data. In this manner, users can create and share custom gameplay content for a music video game based on songs stored on their portable media devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805744&OS=08805744&RS=08805744
owner: Disney Enterprises, Inc.
number: 08805744
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
The present application claims the benefit and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 976 678 filed Oct. 1 2007 entitled PODBLASTING CONNECTING A USB PORTABLE MEDIA DEVICE TO A CONSOLE the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to video games and more particularly relate to techniques for aiding users of game consoles in creating custom gameplay data for a video game based on audio data stored on a portable media device.

In recent years console based music or rhythm video games such as Dance Dance Revolution BeatMania Guitar Hero and the like have grown tremendously in popularity. A music video game is a type of game that challenges players to enter inputs in accordance with gameplay cues or markers that are designated for a song in the game s musical soundtrack. The gameplay cues are typically synchronized with one or more aural components of the song such as the underlying beat or the notes played by an instrument. Thus the gameplay of a music video game is generally oriented around a player s ability to enter inputs in time with the game s music. In some games the gameplay cues are represented by visual indicators that aid the player in recognizing when to enter an input and what the input should be.

Since a music video game generally requires gameplay cues i.e. gameplay data to be defined for each playable song in its soundtrack currently available music video games are limited to including a predefined number of songs. For example the game Guitar Hero for the Sony PlayStation 2 game console includes 47 total playable songs in its soundtrack. This limitation can be problematic if for example only a small percentage of the songs included in a music video game appeal to a particular game player.

One possible solution to the above limitation is for game developers to simply provide a greater number of playable songs for their music video games either as part of the games themselves or as part of later produced sequels or expansion packs. For example Guitar Hero II the sequel to Guitar Hero includes an additional 40 songs not found in the original. However this approach may be problematic for several reasons. First given the broad range of musical tastes that people have and the relatively limited storage capacity of game media it is possible that an expanded song list will still include only a handful of songs that appeal to each game player. Second creating gameplay data for a large number of songs may be time consuming thereby undesirably extending the development cycle of a game. Third acquiring licensing rights for a large number of songs from the composers and or original performers may be prohibitively expensive. Fourth in the case of a sequel or expansion pack consumers may be unwilling to pay an additional cost for what may be perceived as a rehash of the original game.

Embodiments of the present invention address the foregoing and other such problems by providing techniques for aiding users of game consoles in creating custom gameplay data for a music video game based on audio data e.g. songs stored on a portable media device. Specific embodiments provide a game console application that can receive a song at a game console from a portable media device and receive user inputs to generate custom gameplay data associated with the song. The gameplay data may then be saved to the portable media device and later accessed either at the same or a different game console to allow a user to play the music video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data. In this manner users can create and share custom gameplay content for a music video game based on songs stored on their portable media devices. In one embodiment the game console application may include an interface for controlling the portable media device from the game console. In further embodiments the game console application may generate a video of a user playing the music video game in accordance with the custom gameplay data and the song and store the video on the portable media device.

In one set of embodiments a technique for aiding a user of a game console in creating gameplay data for a video game based on audio data stored on a portable media device comprises receiving the audio data at the game console from the portable media device the portable media device being communicatively coupled with the game console via a data link. The technique further comprises presenting a user interface to the user of the game console the user interface including a visual representation of the audio data and receiving input from the user of the game console the input being used to generate gameplay data associated with the audio data. In various embodiments the generated gameplay data includes a plurality of user input cues synchronized with the audio data. The generated gameplay data is then stored on the portable media device.

In another set of embodiments the technique above further comprises receiving the gameplay data at the game console from the portable media device and enabling a user of the game console to play the video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data. Enabling a user to play the video game may include playing back the audio data while concurrently displaying a visual representation of the gameplay data. In one embodiment the video game is a music video game.

In another set of embodiments the technique above further comprises determining whether a user of a second game console is allowed to access the gameplay data created by the user of the first game console. This may depend for example on whether the user of the second game console owns a legally acquired copy of the song associated with the gameplay data. If the user of the second game console is allowed to access the gameplay data the gameplay data is received at the second game console and the user of the second game console is enabled to play the video game on the second game console in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data.

In another set of embodiments the technique above further comprises generating a video of a user of a game console playing a game in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data and storing the video on the portable media device. The video may then be viewed by connecting the portable media device to a game console and displaying the video on a display connected to the game console or displaying the video on a display of the portable media device.

In another set of embodiments the technique above further comprises receiving information about a plurality of audio tracks from the portable media device where the plurality of audio tracks are stored on the portable media device and where the audio data is included in the plurality of audio tracks. A second user interface is presented to the user of the game console the second user interface including at least a portion of the information about the plurality of audio tracks. A selection of the audio data from among the plurality of audio tracks is then received from the user of the game console. In various embodiments the selection is received via a motion sensitive controller.

In one set of embodiments a system for aiding a user of a game console in creating gameplay data for a video game based on audio data stored on portable media device is disclosed. The system includes a first programmatic interface for receiving the audio data at the game console from the portable media device an editor module for displaying a visual representation of the audio data and receiving input from the user of the game console the input being used to generate gameplay data associated with the audio data and a second programmatic interface for transmitting the gameplay data from the game console to the portable media device for storage on the portable media device. In various embodiments the system further includes a third programmatic interface for receiving the gameplay data at the game console and a playback module for playing back the audio data while concurrently displaying a visual representation of the gameplay data within a video game thereby allowing the user of the game console to play the video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data.

In one set of embodiments a computer program product stored on a machine readable medium is disclosed. The computer program product includes code for receiving audio data at a game console from a portable media device the portable media device being communicatively coupled with the game console via a data link. The computer program product further includes code for presenting a user interface to the user of the game console the user interface including a visual representation of the audio data receiving input from the user of the game console the input being used to generate gameplay data associated with the audio data and storing the generated gameplay data on the portable media device. In various embodiments the generated gameplay data includes a plurality of user input cues synchronized with the audio data.

The foregoing together with other features embodiments and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent when referring to the following specification claims and accompanying drawings.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for aiding users of game consoles in creating custom gameplay data for a video game based on audio data stored on a portable media device e.g. Apple iPod Apple iPhone Sony PSP Microsoft Zune etc. . Specific embodiments are directed but not limited to music video games in which gameplay data is typically associated with audio tracks such as songs. The techniques of the present invention enable a user of a game console to connect a portable media device to a game console receive audio data at the console create custom gameplay data associated with the audio data and save the custom gameplay data to the portable media device. The custom gameplay data may then be accessed either at the same game console or a different game console to enable a user to play a music video game in accordance with the custom gameplay data and the associated audio data. In this manner users can play a music video game using songs from their own personal music collection without being limited to the song selection included in the game.

Game console is any device capable of executing a computer or video game. In one embodiment game console is a dedicated game playing device such as a Nintendo Wii Sony PlayStation 2 Sony PlayStation 3 Microsoft Xbox 360 and the like. In other embodiments game console may be a multifunction device that is capable of playing games such as a personal computer cable box digital video recorder e.g. TiVo media center extender e.g. Apple TV and the like. The structure of an exemplary game console is discussed in greater detail with respect to below.

Portable media device may communicate with game console using data link . Data link may be a wired e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB Firewire optical etc. or a wireless e.g. RF 802.11 Bluetooth infrared etc. link. Further various different communications protocols may be used to communicate a data stream over data link including both standardized e.g. USB TCP IP Bluetooth etc. and proprietary protocols. For example a standardized protocol such as USB may be used for wire level data transmission via data link and a proprietary protocol such as the Apple iPod Communications protocol may be used for application level data transmission via data link . One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Although only a single portable media device and game console are shown in it should be appreciated that system may incorporate any number of these devices. For example multiple portable media devices may be communicatively coupled to a single game console . Conversely a single portable media device may communicatively coupled to multiple game consoles . Furthermore each connection between a portable media device and a game console may utilize a different type of data link e.g. wired wireless etc. .

In various embodiments game console may additionally include a media reader e.g. cartridge slot optical disk drive etc. and a communications subsystem e.g. a modem a network interface wireless or wired an infra red communication device a peripheral interface wireless or wired etc. . Media reader is generally configured to read game data from a computer readable storage medium such as a DVD CD ROM cartridge and the like. In specific embodiments communication subsystem may comprise one or more interfaces e.g. USB Firewire 802.11 Bluetooth RF etc. for communicatively coupling portable media device to game console via data link as depicted in .

Game console may further include a working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments game console may optionally include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a graphics acceleration processor a physics acceleration processor and or the like.

Game console may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within working memory including an operating system and or other code . In one set of embodiments other code comprises application programs such as a video game program and or a game console application for creating custom gameplay data from audio data stored on a portable media device as illustrated in . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of game console may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software or both. Further connection to other computing devices and peripheral devices may be employed. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

At step audio data is received at a game console from a portable media device. In various embodiments the audio data is received via a data link between the game console and the portable media device such as data link of . As described with respect to the data link may be a wired e.g. USB Firewire optical etc. or wireless e.g. RF 802.11. Bluetooth infrared etc. link. The audio data may be encoded in any type of format such as MP3 AAC WAV Apple Lossless and the like and may represent any type of audio information such as a song speech sound effects and the like. In one embodiment the audio data is transferred from the portable media device to the game console in a streaming format such that the audio data is decoded by the portable media device and received at the game console as a raw bitstream. In other embodiments the audio data is transferred from the portable media device to the game console in its original encoded format. In these embodiments the audio data may be stored on the game console and decoded by the game console.

Once the audio data has been received at the game console a user interface is presented to a user of the game console where the user interface includes a visual representation of the audio data step . In various embodiments the user interface is generated by the game console and is configured to allow the user to create custom gameplay data for the audio data received from the portable media device. In one embodiment the audio data is visually presented in the user interface as a timeline. The user interface may also include a mechanism for aurally playing back the content of the audio data.

At step one or more inputs are received from the user of the game console where the inputs are used to generate gameplay data associated with audio data. The generated gameplay data may later be used to play a video game such as a music video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the associated audio data. In one embodiment the inputs received from the user may be entered via a motion sensitive controller such as the motion sensitive remote included with the Nintendo Wii game console. Alternatively the inputs received from the user may be entered via standard game controller or any other type of input device such as a keyboard mouse and the like.

In various embodiments the gameplay data generated in step includes a plurality of user input i.e. gameplay cues that are synchronized with the audio data. For example the gameplay data may include gameplay cues indicating that a specific input e.g. a button press on a game controller should be entered for each note played by a particular instrument in the audio data. In one embodiment the user of a game console may create multiple instances of gameplay data for a single audio data track. For instance the user may select an instrument in the audio data that they would like to define gameplay data for and then enter inputs to generate gameplay data for the selected instrument. Such instruments may include without limitation guitar bass keyboard drums voice lead singer sound effects and the like.

At step the gameplay data generated at step is transmitted to the portable media device for storage therein. The gameplay data may be stored in any type of data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML plain text binary and the like. Further the gameplay data may be stored in one or more files that are separate from the associated audio data or in the same file as the associated audio data. For example the gameplay data may be stored as metadata in the associated audio data file. If the gameplay data is stored in one or more files that are separate from the associated audio data the gameplay data file s may include an identifier to correlate the gameplay data file s with the associated audio data file.

In various embodiments the gameplay data stored on the portable media device at step may be accessed to allow a game player to play a video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the associated audio data step . In one embodiment as illustrated in the gameplay data may be received from the portable media device at the same game console where it was created step . Once the gameplay data is received a user of the game console is enabled to play a video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the associated audio data step . Enabling a user to play a video game in accordance with the gameplay data and the associated audio data may comprise allowing a user to select the gameplay data and the associated audio data from within the context of the video game. The video game may then play back the audio data while concurrently displaying a visual representation of the gameplay data thereby allowing the user to play the game by listening to the audio data and entering inputs in accordance with the gameplay data. If a plurality of gameplay data files were created for a single audio data track the user may be allowed to select one or more of the plurality of gameplay data files for playback within the context of the video game. For example the user may select a both a guitar gameplay data file and a keyboard gameplay data file for a song. The user and optionally another user may then play the video game in accordance with both the guitar gameplay data and the keyboard gameplay data.

In another embodiment as illustrated in the gameplay data may be received at a second game console that is different from the game console where it was created step . In this case the game console determines whether a user of the second game console is allowed to access the audio data associated with the gameplay data step . This determination may be made for example by checking whether the user of the second console owns a legally acquired copy of the audio data. If the user of the second console is allowed to access the audio data the user of the second game console is enabled to play a video game on the second game console in accordance with the gameplay data and the audio data step .

In one embodiment the gameplay data received at the second game console may be received from the portable media device. For example the user of the second game console may connect the portable media device to the second game console via a data link such as data link of and initiate a transfer of the gameplay data and optionally the audio data to the second game console through the data link. In alternative embodiments the gameplay data may be received from another source. For example the gameplay data stored on the portable media device may in some embodiments be uploaded to a remote server. In this case the gameplay data may be received at the second game console from the remote server rather than the portable media device.

It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in B and C provide a particular method for aiding a user of a game console in creating gameplay data for a video game based on audio data stored on a portable media device according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover the individual steps illustrated B or C may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

In one set of embodiments the steps illustrated in B and B may be carried out by a application running on game console of . is a simplified block diagram of such an application in accordance with these embodiments. As shown application includes one or more programmatic interfaces an editor module and a playback module . Programmatic interfaces are generally used to enable the transmission of data such as audio data and gameplay data between portable media device and game console of . The programmatic interfaces may include a wire level communication application programming interface API for facilitating communication with the input output hardware e.g. USB controllers of media device and game console . The programmatic interfaces may also include portable media device communication and input output APIs for transmitting data between portable media device and game console at the application level. In one embodiment application may also employ a portable media device control API to control the operation of the portable media device from the game console. This functionality is discussed in greater detail with respect to below.

Editor module is configured to enable a user of a game console to create gameplay data based on audio data in accordance with method of . In various embodiments editor module may include a mechanism for the user to select an audio data track stored on a portable media device a user interface for displaying the audio data in a visual format to the user a mechanism for receiving user inputs a mechanism for generating gameplay data associated with the audio data and a mechanism for storing the generated gameplay data on the portable media device.

In some embodiments application may further include a playback module . Playback module is configured to enable a user of a game console to play a video game such as a music video game using custom gameplay data in accordance with . For example playback module may include a mechanism for enabling the user to select gameplay data from the portable media device or some other source determining whether the user is allowed to access the audio data associated with the gameplay data and a mechanism for enabling the user to play the video game in accordance with the selected gameplay data and its associated audio data.

As shown in components are part of a single integrated application . However components may be separated into two or more distinct applications modules. For example programmatic interfaces may be a distinct module that is permanently stored in a storage device e.g. flash ROM of game console whereas editor and playback modules are stored with the code for a video game on a computer readable storage medium that is loaded into working memory from media reader of . In other embodiments programmatic interfaces and editor module may be stored on a first computer readable storage medium and playback module may be stored with the code for a video game on a second computer readable storage medium. In yet other embodiments components may all be stored with the code for a video game on a single computer readable storage medium. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

In various embodiments game console may be used to control the operation of portable media device thereby allowing a user of the game console to select an audio data track stored on the portable media device from the context of a user interface of the game console rather than a user interface of the portable media device. illustrates one method for controlling a portable media device from a game console in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step information is received at a game console about a plurality of audio tracks from a portable media device where the plurality of audio tracks are stored on the portable media device. The information about the plurality of audio tracks may include title data album data artist data and the like.

At step the user interface is presented to a user of the game console the user interface including at least a portion of the information about the plurality of audio tracks. In an exemplary embodiment the user interface presented at step is configured to closely match the user interface presented to a user of the portable media device. For example if the portable media device is an Apple iPod the user interface generated by the game console would be configured to look like the iPod interface.

Once the user interface is presented to the user the game console may be configured to receive a selection of an audio track e.g. audio data from among the plurality of audio tracks through the user interface step . In one embodiment the selection may be received from the user via a motion sensitive controller such as the Nintendo Wii remote. In other embodiments the selection may be received via a standard game controller or any other type of input device.

At step the selected audio track e.g. audio data is received at the game console from the portable media device. As described previously the audio data may be received in a streaming format such that the audio data is decoded by the portable media device and transmitted to the game console as a raw bitstream. This may be useful if the audio data is protected by a digital rights management DRM scheme and the DRM key is tied to the portable media device. Alternatively the audio data may be transferred to the game console in its original encoded format and decoded by the game console. Once the audio data is received at the game console gameplay data for the audio data may be generated in accordance with method of .

It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in provide a particular method for controlling a portable media device from a game console according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover the individual steps illustrated may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a user of a game console may be enabled to create a performance video i.e. video file such as an MPEG AVI MOV etc. of the user playing a video game in accordance with custom gameplay data and associated audio data and then s hare the performance video with others. As shown in this technique may include generating a video of the user playing a video game in accordance with user defined gameplay data and associated audio data step . For example the gameplay data may have been generated by a game console according to method of . At step the generated video is stored on a portable media device. In one embodiment the video may then be received from the portable media device at a second game console and displayed on a display connected to the second game console steps . In other embodiments the video may be viewed directly on a display of the portable media device. In this manner the user may capture and share his or her performance of playing a video game in accordance with custom gameplay data and associated audio data.

It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in provide a particular method for generating and storing a video of user gameplay on a portable media device according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover the individual steps illustrated may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. For example the described invention is not restricted to operation with certain types of games or game playing devices but is free to operate with a plurality of different game types or game playing devices. Additionally although the present invention has been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while the present invention has been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. The present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

