---

title: Method for processing alarm data to generate security reports
abstract: A system and method are provided that allow analysis of alarm data to generate security reports. A security report system may include a monitoring tool and a data analyzer. The monitoring tool may include an alarm data acquiring module and an alarm database for storing the alarm data acquired by the alarm data acquiring module. The data analyzer may include a data parsing module for parsing the alarm data into a plurality of data segments each indicating an attribute of the alarm data, a data categorizing module for categorizing the plurality of data segments into a plurality of data groups in accordance with the attributes of the data segments, and a data processing module for processing the data segments of at least one of the data groups to generate a security report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08040231&OS=08040231&RS=08040231
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08040231
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081003
---
The present invention relates generally to data analysis and data processing. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and system for processing alarm data generated in a security system especially alarm data generated by a central monitoring station of the security system to generate security reports in connection with an area monitored by the security system.

Security systems offer a degree of security for residential sites and for office business and or industrial applications. Typically a security device such as a sensor or a camera monitoring a protected area is provided as part of a security system. Such security system devices can detect the occurrence of various alerting events such as a breach of the protected area a fire condition or other types of condition and can generate alarm signals notification and or data indicative of the events. The signals or data are usually transmitted through wired or wireless connections to a security control panel configured for processing the alarm signals or data from the security device and for implementing other functionalities based on the processed results of the alarm signals or data such as arming the system disarming the system providing system status and generating alerting messages indicative of the events coordinating the operations of different functional modules of the system and so on.

In addition a central monitoring station is normally provided to communicate with the security control panel for receiving routing and sending the messages generated by the control panel to the terminal devices of the users of the security system notifying them of the occurrence of alerting events. The central monitoring station usually receives data from the security control panel and further processes the received data to generate alarm data. The alarm data can be in any suitable format.

The security system includes at least one security device configured to detect an event such as a breach of protected premises and transmit signals in response to the event. The system further includes a security control panel in communication with the security device through the IP network for processing the signals from the security device and controlling the operations of other functional modules of the system. A central monitoring station is in communication with the security control panel through the IP network . The central station is capable of processing the received data to generate alarm data.

However no extended applications of the alarm data generated by the central monitoring station have been envisioned and developed so far. Thus it is desirable to provide extended application of the alarm data generated by the central monitoring station for example to produce extra revenues.

According to the present invention method and system for analyzing alarm data generated by a central monitoring station of a security system to generate security reports are provided.

The method includes acquiring alarm data from the central monitoring station storing the alarm data in an alarm database parsing the alarm data into a plurality of data segments each having an attribute associated with the alarm data categorizing the plurality of data segments into a plurality of data groups in accordance with the attribute of each data segment processing the data segments of at least one of the data groups to generate a security report. One aspect of the method may comprise statistically processing the data segments of at least one of the data groups to generate a security report.

The security report system comprises a monitoring tool and an alarm data analyzer. The monitoring tool comprises an alarm data acquiring module for acquiring alarm data and an alarm database for storing the alarm data. The data analyzer comprises a data parsing module for parsing the alarm data into a plurality of data segments each having an attribute associated with the alarm data a data categorizing module for categorizing the plurality of data segments into a plurality of data groups in accordance with the attributes of the data segments and a data processing module for processing the data segments of at least one of the data groups to generate a security report. One aspect of the system comprises an interface for transferring the alarm data from the alarm database to the data parsing module. Another aspect of the system comprises a group database for storing the plurality of data groups. Another aspect of the system comprises a processing element for applying a statistical model to the data segments of at least one of the data groups to generate a security report.

A program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform the above described method steps may be also provided.

The present invention now will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numerals refer to like elements throughout.

As used herein configured to and the like refer to mechanical or structural connections between elements to allow the elements to cooperate to provide a described effect these terms also refer to operation capabilities of electrical elements such as analog or digital computers or application specific devices that are programmed to perform steps to provide an output in response to given input signals.

A system and method are provided to allow extended applications of alarm data acquired by a central monitoring station in a security system such as the central monitoring station shown in . is a schematic block diagram illustrating a security report system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. For example the security report system can be embodied as hardware software or the combination of hardware and software. The security report system can be integrated with the central monitoring station or with a separate PC in communication with the central monitoring station .

In the shown embodiment the security report system includes a monitoring tool and an alarm data analyzer in communication with the monitoring tool . The monitoring tool serves to acquire alarm data from the central monitoring station and transfer the acquired alarm data to the alarm data analyzer for generating a security report. The monitoring tool includes an alarm data acquiring module in communication with the central monitoring station through known wired or wireless connection. The alarm data acquiring module may process the acquired data such as determining and filing data associated with false alarms before the acquired data is stored in an alarm database . The monitoring tool further includes an interface such as an Application Programming Interface API for exchanging messages or data between the monitoring tool and the alarm data analyzer . In operation the interface retrieves alarm data from the alarm database and transfers the retrieved data to a data parsing module of the alarm data analyzer .

The data parsing module functions to parse the alarm data transferred from the interface into a plurality of data segments with each data segment having an attribute associated with the alarm data.

For example the alarm type segment associated with the type related attribute comprises but is not limited to data indicating a fire alarm and data indicating a burglary alarm. The alarm time segment associated with the time related attribute comprises but is not limited to data indicating the time of issuing an alarm data indicating the date of issuing an alarm and data indicating the season of the issuing an alarm. The alarm source segment associated with the source related attribute comprises but is not limited to data indicating source information of an alarm at a town level data indicating source information of an alarm at a city level and data indicating source information of an alarm at a state level. The alarm message segment associated with the text attribute of the alarm data may comprise text descriptions of the occurrence of the alarm. However it should be understood that the data segments of alarm data and the attributes associated with the data segments are not limited to the above discussed.

The alarm data analyzer further includes a data categorizing module for categorizing the various data segments of the collected alarm data into a plurality of groups according to the attributes associated with the data segments. For example all the data segments associated with the type related attribute i.e. all the alarm type segments are categorized by the data categorizing module into a data group namely an alarm type group saved in a group database of the alarm data analyzer . Similarly an alarm time group and an alarm source group are also generated by the data categorizing module and subsequently saved in the group database .

The alarm data analyzer further includes a data processing module for generating a security report. The data processing module retrieves at least one data group from the alarm type group alarm time group and alarm source group saved in the group database and processes the data segments in the selected group to generate a security report. For example the data processing module has a statistical processing element for applying a statistical model to the retrieved data segments of the selected group to generate a security report.

For example the processing element applies a predefined statistical model to the alarm time segments including data indicating the time of issuing an alarm the date of issuing an alarm and the season of the issuing an alarm thereby generating a time wise security report analyzing the trends or patterns of the occurrence of alarm triggering events in a day a week or a season. In addition the processing element may further apply a predefined statistical model to the alarm type segments to generate a security report with the patterns of the type of the occurrence of alarm triggering events on the basis of or in connection to the above time wise analysis thereby generating a more comprehensive security report. The alarm source segments can be processed statistically by the processing element to generate a security report indicating for example the frequency of occurrence of alarm triggering events at a certain location. However it should be understood that the various data segments can be processed in various combinations and manners to accomplish security reports comprehensive at various levels.

The security reports generated by the security report system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention can be further analyzed or processed by a third party to generate extra revenue. For example the security reports can be sold to an insurance company for estimating insurance premiums for specific areas or for specific time spans. The security report can also be sold to media for broadcasting preventive messages to the public.

The alarm data generated by a central monitoring station is acquired at step and further saved in an alarm database at step . At step the alarm data is retrieved and further transferred to a data parsing module. At step the alarm data are parsed into a plurality of data segments each associated with an attribute of the alarm data. At step the plurality of data segments are categorized into a plurality of data groups in accordance with the respective data attributes associated with the data segments. At step the data segments from at least one of the data groups are processed to generate a security report. Specifically at step the data segments are statistically processed to generate a security report.

The software system comprises a data tier having a data capturing subtier and a data classification subtier a logic tier and a presentation tier . At the data tier alarm data is captured after filtering any false alarm information at the data capturing subtier and subsequently retrieved and categorized at the data classification subtier . At the data classification subtier at least three entries are implemented for storing the grouped information namely alarm type classification time based classification and geographical classification . Within the alarm type classification entry the alarm type information is stored for example as either fire alarm or burglary alarm. Within the time based classification entry information concerning the time of occurrence of an alarm the date of occurrence of an alarm and the season of occurrence of an alarm is stored. Within the geographical classification entry information concerning the town city state and or country where an alarm is issued is stored.

At the logic tier the various process commands and logical decisions are made to perform evaluation and calculation thereby analyzing the alarm data to generate security reports and further archive the reports for subsequent application. At the presentation tier the security reports are further processed to produce results that are understandable and practical to a user. For example the security reports can be analyzed to produce a prediction entry storing information for predicting the possibility of occurrence of alarm triggering events in certain areas or during certain times a statistical history entry storing information relative to occurrence of alarm triggering events in the past a publication entry storing information to be published by a medium such as a local TV station and or newspaper and a prevention entry storing information giving warnings to the public on the occurrence of alarm triggering events in certain areas or during certain time.

The invention has been described herein with reference to particular exemplary embodiments. Certain alterations and modifications may be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention. The exemplary embodiments are meant to be illustrative not limiting of the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

Various aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a program software or computer instructions embodied in a computer or machine usable or readable medium which causes the computer or machine to perform the steps of the method when executed on the computer processor and or machine.

The system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented and run on a general purpose computer or computer system. The computer system may be any type of known or will be known systems and may typically include a processor memory device a storage device input output devices internal buses and or a communications interface for communicating with other computer systems in conjunction with communication hardware and software etc.

