---

title: Detector circuit with improved bandwidth
abstract: A detector circuit for an operational bandwidth having a center frequency including a diode, a first inductor in series with the diode, a transmission line coupled across the diode on a first end of the transmission line, the transmission line having an impedance and being in length a quarter wavelength of a frequency near the center frequency of the operational bandwidth, and a capacitor coupled across a second end of the transmission line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08030913&OS=08030913&RS=08030913
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 08030913
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080714
---
The US Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of W911QX 04 C 0127 awarded by DARPA.

This disclosure relates to detector circuits and in particular to detector circuits for millimeter wave frequencies.

Detector circuits have been implemented in the prior art with discrete diodes and external impedance matching and video filtering circuitry. At millimeter wave frequencies these diodes are typically single discrete devices that are mounted on a substrate. Impedance matching and video filtering for the detector circuit are also mounted on the substrate with the input matching network on the input side of the discrete diode and the output video filter network on the other side of the discrete diode. Such a detector circuit is described in Development of Compact Broadband Receivers at Submillimeter Wavelengths by J. L. Hesler D. W. Porterfield W. L. Bishop T. W. Crowe and P. Racette 2004 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings IEEE pages 735 740. The resulting detector circuit is a physically large circuit with limited sensitivity.

Another example of the prior art is a W band detector developed at HRL Laboratories LLC. This detector circuit is similar to detectors implemented in commercial millimeter wave imaging cameras. The W band detector is implemented using discrete diodes mounted on a circuit board. Input filtering is provided on the input side of the detector and output filtering on the output side. This W band detector has high sensitivity but very narrow bandwidth and is described in Sb Heterostructure Diode Detector W band NEP and NEDT Optimization by H. P. Moyer R. L. Bowen J. N. Schulman D. H. Chow S. Thomas III T. Y. Hsu J. J. Lynch and K. S. Holabird Proceeding of SPIE Volume 6211 62110J 1 2006 .

The purpose of the input matching network is to provide an impedance match for maximum delivery of incident power from the input transmission lines and to the diode . The output filter network ideally blocks any RF signal frequencies from the output signal while passing lower frequency video signals to the output transmission lines and .

The output filter network typically consists of a low pass filter to pass the low frequency video output while blocking the RF signal from the output signal. For example for the shunt connected diode of the output filter network may consist of an inductor in series with the load. This circuit ensures detection down to zero Hz DC and has high impedance at the center frequency thereby blocking the RF signal from the output transmission lines and while not degrading the RF operation of the circuit. An example of a circuit that would not work well for is a large shunt capacitor connected directly across the diode. Although this allows DC to pass to the output transmission lines and and blocks RF from the output signal it effectively short circuits the diode at RF which disrupts the RF operation of the detector circuit.

What is needed is a detector circuit that has a wide operational bandwidth while isolating the RF input signal from the output signal. The embodiments of the present disclosure answer these and other needs.

In a first embodiment disclosed herein a detector circuit for an operational bandwidth having a center frequency comprises a diode a first inductor in series with the diode a transmission line coupled across the diode on a first end of the transmission line the transmission line having an impedance and being in length a quarter wavelength of a frequency near the center frequency of the operational bandwidth and a capacitor coupled across a second end of the transmission line.

In another embodiment disclosed herein a detector circuit for an operational bandwidth having a center frequency comprises an input transmission line a diode coupled across the input transmission line a first inductor in series with the diode a second transmission line coupled across the diode on a first end of the second transmission line the second transmission line having an impedance and being in length a quarter wavelength of a frequency near the center frequency of the operational bandwidth and a capacitor coupled across a second end of the transmission line.

In another embodiment disclosed herein a detector circuit for an operational bandwidth having a center frequency comprises an input transmission line coupled to a first inductor and a second inductor a diode coupled between the first inductor and the second inductor a second transmission line coupled to the first inductor and the second inductor on a first end of the second transmission line the second transmission line having an impedance and being in length a quarter wavelength of a frequency near the center frequency of the operational bandwidth and a capacitor coupled across a second end of the transmission line.

These and other features and advantages will become further apparent from the detailed description and accompanying figures that follow. In the figures and description numerals indicate the various features like numerals referring to like features throughout both the drawings and the description.

Referring now to one embodiment of a detector circuit is shown. The signal input to the detector circuit is via an input transmission line which has a signal line a return line and an impedance of Z. An inductor is in series with a diode and the input transmission line is attached across inductor in series with a diode at first terminal and second terminal . The inductor improves the operational bandwidth of the detector circuit by resonating with the capacitance inherent in the diode. The inductance value for the inductor is typically chosen to be about equal to

A first end of a second transmission line which has a second signal line and second return line is attached across the inductor in series with a diode at first terminal and second terminal . The second transmission line has an impedance of Zand a length of L. A second end of the second transmission line is attached across capacitor with the second signal line attached to the first capacitor terminal and the second return line attached to the second capacitor terminal . The output signal of the detector circuit is the voltage across the capacitor between first capacitor terminal and second capacitor terminal . The capacitor effectively filters the RF signal from the output signal and the capacitance of the capacitor is typically chosen to be substantially greater than 1 2 f Z .

The combination of capacitor and the second transmission line second signal line and second return line with impedance Zand a length of Lprovides an additional resonance for providing a wide bandwidth for the detector circuit. Choosing the capacitance of capacitor to be substantially greater than the inverse of 2 f Z effectively creates a short circuit to the RF signal frequencies thereby removing the RF signal frequencies from the output signal. By choosing the length Lof the second transmission line to be about a quarter wavelength of a frequency near the center of the operating bandwidth the combination of the capacitor with the second transmission line second signal line and second return line appears to be a parallel resonator. In a preferred embodiment the length Lof the second transmission line is a quarter wavelength of the center frequency of the operating bandwidth.

It is important that the capacitor is not connected directly across diode . As discussed above a large shunt capacitor connected directly across the diode would allow DC to pass to the output transmission lines and and would block RF from the output signal. However a large shunt capacitor connected directly across the diode would also effectively short circuit the diode at RF signal frequencies which would not allow the diode to detect the envelope of the RF signal. The effect would be an inoperable detector circuit.

The detector circuit is shown in one embodiment in the perspective view of . The detector circuit is coupled directly to a waveguide that is terminated in a horn antenna not shown . This structure is called a radiometer since it measures the intensity of radiation incident and is commonly used in millimeter wave imaging cameras. The input waveguide has ridges to extend the input bandwidth. A microwave circuit board contains E plane probes a flip chip integrated circuit that implements the detector circuit and video output transmission line . A backshort cavity reflects incident energy back toward the detector circuit . The incident energy collected by the horn antenna not shown travels down the waveguide toward the flip chip integrated circuit containing the detector circuit . The E plane probes are excited by the incident energy in a manner similar to a dipole antenna and are connected directly to the flip chip detector circuitry through metal bumps.

Using an integrated circuit provides high sensitivity detection of RF signals. Incorporating the detector circuit of or B directly on the integrated circuit simplifies external circuitry and significantly improves detector performance especially at millimeter wave 30 300 GHz frequencies. Employing the circuitry or portions of the circuitry off chip at these frequencies would lead to narrowband operation due to the unavoidable parasitic reactances associated with the RF transitions on and off chip. Incorporating this circuitry on chip reduces these parasitics increasing the bandwidth and sensitivity of the detector. An integrated circuit also reduces the overall circuit size and thereby the integrated circuit cost. As important the size of the integrated circuit which is approximately 0.5 mm by 0.5 mm allows the circuit to be integrated into compact systems such as receiver antennas with improved performance over more discrete component embodiments.

The embodiment using a waveguide input is just one of many possible embodiments. Instead of a waveguide input one may use a planar transmission line such as microstrip or coplanar waveguide as the input guide.

Having now described the invention in accordance with the requirements of the patent statutes those skilled in this art will understand how to make changes and modifications to the present invention to meet their specific requirements or conditions. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed herein.

The foregoing Detailed Description of exemplary and preferred embodiments is presented for purposes of illustration and disclosure in accordance with the requirements of the law. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form s described but only to enable others skilled in the art to understand how the invention may be suited for a particular use or implementation. The possibility of modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. No limitation is intended by the description of exemplary embodiments which may have included tolerances feature dimensions specific operating conditions engineering specifications or the like and which may vary between implementations or with changes to the state of the art and no limitation should be implied therefrom. Applicant has made this disclosure with respect to the current state of the art but also contemplates advancements and that adaptations in the future may take into consideration of those advancements namely in accordance with the then current state of the art. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims as written and equivalents as applicable. Reference to a claim element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated. Moreover no element component nor method or process step in this disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or step is explicitly recited in the Claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Sec. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . . . and no method or process step herein is to be construed under those provisions unless the step or steps are expressly recited using the phrase comprising the step s of . . . . 

