---

title: Center frequency control for wireless communication
abstract: The method and apparatus as described are directed toward techniques and mechanisms to improve efficient wireless network implementation, including obtaining one specification including a center frequency definition, determining, based on the specification, a center frequency of at least one carrier used to operate on the wireless communication system, determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency, and setting the center frequency to be multiples of sub-carrier spacing by adding the dithering.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08514829&OS=08514829&RS=08514829
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08514829
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080926
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 978 083 entitled BAND CLASS OF OFDM SYSTEM which was filed Oct. 5 2007 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to apparatus and methods for decreasing the complexity of wireless communication devices through center frequency control.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication for instance voice and or data can be provided via such wireless communication systems. A typical wireless communication system or network can provide multiple users access to one or more shared resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power etc. . For instance a system can use a variety of multiple access techniques such as Frequency Division Multiplexing FDM Time Division Multiplexing TDM Code Division Multiplexing CDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM and others.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems can simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device can communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations.

Wireless communication systems oftentimes employ one or more base stations that provide a coverage area. A typical base station can transmit multiple data streams for broadcast multicast and or unicast services wherein a data stream may be a stream of data that can be of independent reception interest to a mobile device. A mobile device within the coverage area of such base station can be employed to receive one more than one or all the data streams carried by the composite stream. Likewise a mobile device can transmit data to the base station or another mobile device.

Optimization of network coverage and service quality are constant goals for wireless network operators. Superior coverage and service quality results in enhanced user experiences greater throughput and ultimately increased revenue. One way to achieve superior coverage and service quality is through decreased network and mobile device complexity. Consequently it would be desirable to have a method and or apparatus for decreasing network and mobile device complexity.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject disclosure provides for controlling center frequencies in a multi carrier wireless network by adding dithering. In some aspects disclosed is a method for obtaining one specification including a center frequency definition determining based on the specification a center frequency of at least one carrier used to operate on the wireless communication system determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency and setting the center frequency to be multiples of sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering.

In other aspects disclosed is an apparatus that facilitates wireless communication in a multi carrier network. The apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions related to obtaining at least one specification wherein the specification includes at least one center frequency definition analyzing the specification and determining a center frequency of at least one carrier wherein the carrier operates on the wireless communication system determining an amount dithering to add to the center frequency and setting the center frequency to be multiples of the sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering and a processor coupled to the memory configured to execute the instructions retained in the memory.

According to still other aspects provided is a wireless communication apparatus that includes means for obtaining at least one specification wherein the specification includes at least one center frequency definition means for analyzing the specification and determining a center frequency of at least one carrier wherein the carrier operates on the wireless communication system means for determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency and means for setting the center frequency to be multiples of the sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering.

In one or more other aspects disclosed is an computer program product that contains a computer readable medium comprising a first set of codes for causing at least one computer to obtain at least one specification wherein the specification includes at least one center frequency definition a second set of codes for causing the at least one computer to analyze the specification and determining a center frequency of at least one carrier wherein the carrier operates on the wireless communication system a third set of codes for causing the at least one computer to determine an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency and a fourth set of codes for causing the at least one computer to set the center frequency to be multiples of the sub carrier spacing based at least in part on adding the dithering.

In other aspects disclosed is at least one processor configured to facilitate wireless communications comprising a first module for obtaining one specification including a center frequency definition a second module for determining based on the specification a center frequency of at least one carrier used to operate on the wireless communication system a third module for determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency and a fourth module for setting the center frequency to be multiples of sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . Moreover mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link and forward link can employ a different frequency band than that employed by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band and forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward links and for mobile devices and . This can be provided by using a precoder to steer signals in desired directions for example. Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile devices and scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology in one example.

According to an example system can be a multiple input multiple output MIMO communication system. Further system can utilize substantially any type of duplexing technique to divide communication channels e.g. forward link reverse link . . . such as FDD TDD and the like. Moreover the system can be a multiple bearer system. A bearer can be an information path of defined capacity delay bit error rate etc. Mobile devices and can each serve one or more radio bearers. The mobile devices and can employ uplink rate control mechanisms to manage and or share uplink resources across the one or more radio bearers. In one example the mobile devices and can utilize token bucket mechanisms to serve the radio bearers and to enforce uplink rate limitations.

Pursuant to an illustration each bearer can have an associated prioritized bit rate PBR maximum bit rate MBR and guaranteed bit rate GBR . The mobile devices and can serve the radio bearers based at least in part on the associated bit rate values. The bit rate values can also be employed to calculate queue sizes that account for PBR and MBR for each bearer. The queue sizes can be included in uplink resource requests transmitted by the mobile devices and to the base station . The base station can schedule uplink resources for mobile device and based upon respective uplink requests and included queue sizes.

In an embodiment each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated i.e. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. BPSK QSPK M PSK or M QAM selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by processor .

The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor which may further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In certain embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are then transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At receiver system the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. The RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at transmitter system .

A processor periodically determines which pre coding matrix to use discussed below . Processor formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to transmitter system .

At transmitter system the modulated signals from receiver system are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reserve link message transmitted by the receiver system . Processor then determines which pre coding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights then processes the extracted message.

The cells can provide coverage via a plurality of networks such as GSM GPRS Edge network hereinafter referred to as 2G network and or UMTS network hereinafter referred to as WCDMA coverage 3G network or simply as 3G . The system can have a first network in the cells wherein the first network is the most readily available network or can be considered the fall back technology having the greatest coverage area. In addition the system may have a second network that is available in a subset of the cells and is not as readily available as the first network. For example the second network may not be available in each cell and or may not cover the entire area of the cells in which it is available. Users leaving the second network are provided coverage by the first network. For instance the system can include 2G and 3G networks wherein the 2G network covers the entire system and the 3G network is available in some locations throughout the system .

Referring now to an example apparatus for setting the center frequency of a carrier in a multi carrier wireless communication system is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present innovation. The wireless communication system includes a multi carrier wireless communication system including a standards component having an API and a dithering component . The standards component includes one or more specifications e.g. spec standard etc. . Additionally the standards component can determine the center frequency of one or more legacy specifications wherein the legacy specifications can include specifications for a GSM WCDMA network CDMA2000 1x network or an EV DO network. It is to be appreciated that this is but one embodiment of the subject innovation and a plurality of additional or alternative embodiments are possible within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that the structure of this embodiment is presented in the current form for simplicity of explanation. For instance a device e.g. base station mobile device etc. operating on the multi carrier wireless communication system can be preconfigured e.g. built to comply with one or more given specifications.

The specifications contain define or otherwise set forth the center frequency of the carriers operating on the wireless communication system . For example in a multi carrier orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM system the center frequency spacing between component carriers can be defined in the specification as multiples of the sub carrier spacing. In this way the complexity of modulation demodulation can be simplified as a single Fast Fourier Transform FFT component can be used to modulate demodulate all component carriers. For instance for a 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE network the carrier spacing can be multiple of 15 KHz and for a 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3gpp2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB network the carrier spacing can be multiple of 9.6 KHz.

The sub carrier spacing is an OFDM modulation parameter and the carrier spacing can be defined as a multiple of the sub carrier spacing for ease of implementation. In addition in legacy wireless communication systems the center frequency is defined in the specification based on a given raster. For instance in a legacy GSM network the center frequency is multiples of 100 KHz and for a 3gpp2 legacy network the center frequency can be multiples of 25 KHz 30 KHz or 50 KHz depending on the band class. It is to be appreciated that the standards component can be a storage medium such as a data store memory and so forth.

Additionally or alternatively the standards component can include an application programming interface API that receives obtains or otherwise acquires the standards from one or more external sources. The API includes any suitable and or necessary adapters connectors channels communication paths etc. to integrate the standards component into virtually any operating and or database system s . For instance the standards component can obtain data relating to the standards from an Internet source e.g. website or a system operator and so forth.

The dithering component obtains the center frequency of one or more of the carriers from the standards component . Returning to the previous example it can be appreciated that a conflict can exist between the center frequencies of a multi carrier OFDM system and one or more legacy systems. For example in a legacy GSM WCDMA network the center frequencies of the carriers can be multiples of 100 KHz while in an OFDM LTE network the center frequencies can be multiples of 15 KHz. Clearly the center frequencies of the legacy system and the OFDM systems cannot be satisfied simultaneously. The dithering component can add dithering to the center frequencies of the multi carrier system such that the center frequency can be within half of the sub carrier spacing to that of the legacy system. For instance the dithering component can add dithering of the carriers in an OFDM GSM WCDMA network such that the center frequency is at most 7.5 KHz or 15 KHz 2 away. Similarly the dithering component can add dithering of the carriers in a 3gpp2 network to be at most 4.8 KHz or 9.2 KHz 2 away. Typically a current mobile device e.g. UE supports both the present system and one or more legacy systems. By using dithering the same center frequency can be used to demodulate both legacy system and the new system as the difference in the center frequencies is well within the frequency tracking loop capability of the mobile device. Therefore reducing the complexity required for modulation and or demodulation.

It is to be appreciated that the dithering component can determine the center frequencies using a plurality of techniques. For instance the dithering component can achieve the center frequencies CF using the equation round Equation 1 where fis the center frequency of an original channel number fis the frequency offset and fis the sub carrier spacing. For instance the original cdma2000 1channel number may be used for an OFDM system with different channel numbers added for the reverse link RL . The dithering component can achieve the center frequency of a particular channel n in the OFDM system by starting from the original cdma2000 1x channel number and using equation 1 wherein the sub carrier spacing f of the channel is 9.6 KHz. It is to be appreciated that fmay be different for a forward link FL and a RL but can still follow a duplexer gap e.g. the left end of the FL and RL band respectively . Therefore the channels will be in the form of the f f k where k is an integer not less than 0.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow chart of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

At the specifications are analyzed in order to determine an initial center frequency and or carrier spacing of the carriers operating on a multi carrier wireless system. For instance as previously discussed in an LTE network the carrier spacing can be multiple of 15 KHz and for an UMB network the carrier spacing can be multiple of 9.6 KHz.

At dithering can be added in order to set control or otherwise determine the center frequency for one or more carriers. Controlling the dithering allows for backwards compatibility and efficient implementation of a wireless communication system. For instance a system operator may want to improve a wireless communication system by using an OFDM system that has data rates greater than the system is currently employing. The system operator can switch channel cards to operate on the OFDM system with higher data rates and maintain backward compatibility without the need for frequency retuning and so forth. By adding the dithering the system operator can have multiple carriers in the same base station that can be demodulated by the associated mobile devices e.g. UEs using comparatively low complexity circuits. Adding the dithering enables determination of one or more center frequencies that the associated legacy UEs and current UEs can operate on concurrently. The center frequency is set at .

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. For instance depending on the implementation a confidence can be assigned to the set of criteria and an inference can be made as to the criteria that should be used as triggers for adding dithering.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the subject invention can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information . For example SVM s are configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria when to update or refine the previously inferred schema tighten the criteria on the inferring algorithm based upon the kind of data being processed e.g. primary versus secondary static versus dynamic . . . and at what time of day to implement tighter criteria controls e.g. in the evening when system performance would be less impacted .

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic block diagram of a portable hand held terminal device according to one aspect of the invention in which a processor is responsible for controlling the general operation of the device . The processor is programmed to control and operate the various components within the device in order to carry out the various functions described herein. The processor can be any of a plurality of suitable processors. The manner in which the processor can be programmed to carry out the functions relating to the invention will be readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art based on the description provided herein.

A memory connected to the processor serves to store program code executed by the processor and serves as a storage means for storing information such as user credential and receipt transaction information and the like. The memory can be a nonvolatile memory suitably adapted to store at least a complete set of the information that is displayed. Thus the memory can include a RAM or flash memory for high speed access by the processor and or a mass storage memory e.g. a micro drive capable of storing gigabytes of data that comprises text images audio and video content. According to one aspect the memory has sufficient storage capacity to store multiple sets of information and the processor could include a program for alternating or cycling between various sets of display information.

A display is coupled to the processor via a display driver system . The display can be a color liquid crystal display LCD plasma display or the like. In this example the display is a VGA display with sixteen levels of gray scale. The display functions to present data graphics or other information content. For example the display can display a set of customer information which is displayed to the operator and can be transmitted over a system backbone not shown . Additionally the display can display a variety of functions that control the execution of the device . The display is capable of displaying both alphanumeric and graphical characters.

Power is provided to the processor and other components forming the hand held device by an onboard power system e.g. a battery pack . In the event that the power system fails or becomes disconnected from the device a supplemental power source can be employed to provide power to the processor and to charge the onboard power system . The processor of the device induces a sleep mode to reduce the current draw upon detection of an anticipated power failure.

The terminal includes a communication subsystem that includes a data communication port which is employed to interface the processor with a remote computer. The port can include at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 serial communications capabilities. Other technologies can also be included for example infrared communication utilizing an infrared data port.

The device can also include a radio frequency RF transceiver section in operative communication with the processor . The RF section includes an RF receiver which receives RF signals from a remote device via an antenna and demodulates the signal to obtain digital information modulated therein. The RF section also includes an RF transmitter for transmitting information to a remote device for example in response to manual user input via a user input device e.g. a keypad or automatically in response to the completion of a transaction or other predetermined and programmed criteria. The transceiver section facilitates communication with a transponder system for example either passive or active that is in use with product or item RF tags. The processor signals or pulses the remote transponder system via the transceiver and detects the return signal in order to read the contents of the tag memory. In one implementation the RF section further facilitates telephone communications using the device . In furtherance thereof an audio I O section is provided as controlled by the processor to process voice input from a microphone or similar audio input device and audio output signals from a speaker or similar audio output device .

In another implementation the device can provide voice recognition capabilities such that when the device is used simply as a voice recorder the processor can facilitate high speed conversion of the voice signals into text content for local editing and review and or later download to a remote system such as a computer word processor. Similarly the converted voice signals can be used to control the device instead of using manual entry via the keypad .

Onboard peripheral devices such as a printer signature pad and a magnetic strip reader can also be provided within the housing of the device or accommodated externally through one or more of the external port interfaces .

The device can also include an image capture system such that the user can record images and or short movies for storage by the device and presentation by the display . Additionally a dataform reading system is included for scanning dataforms. It is to be appreciated that these imaging systems and can be a single system capable of performing both functions.

With reference to illustrated is a system that facilitates center frequency control for wireless transmission. For example system can reside at least partially within a base station mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for obtaining at least one specification wherein the specification includes at least one center frequency definition . Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for analyzing the specification and determining a center frequency of at least one carrier wherein the carrier operates on the wireless communication system . Moreover logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency . Also logical grouping can include an electrical component for setting the center frequency to be multiples of the sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

With reference to illustrated is a system that facilitates center frequency control for wireless transmission. For example system can reside at least partially within a base station mobile device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of modules that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include a module for obtaining at least one specification wherein the specification includes at least one center frequency definition . Further logical grouping can comprise a module for analyzing the specification and determining a center frequency of at least one carrier wherein the carrier operates on the wireless communication system . Moreover logical grouping can comprise a module for determining an amount of dithering to add to the center frequency . Also logical grouping can include a module for setting the center frequency to be multiples of the sub carrier spacing by adding the dithering . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with modules and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of modules and can exist within memory .

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

