---

title: System and method for scalable architecture for web-based collaborative annotation of page-based documents
abstract: A system for managing the communication of multi-page documents. The system may use a software module document splitter adapted to receive a multi-page document being uploaded as a single file and to split the multi-page document into a plurality of independent files, with each independent file representing a single page of the document. The software module document splitter may also associate meta data with each single page that enables the single pages to be downloaded, one at a time, by an electronic device being used by a user, from a file storage device remote from the electronic device. This provides the appearance to the user that the electronic device is in possession of single, multi-page file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08135776&OS=08135776&RS=08135776
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08135776
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081124
---
This invention was made with Government support under F19628 01 D 0016 awarded by the Air Force. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates managing the communication of page based documents over a wide area network and more particularly to a system and method that splits page based document files into a plurality of independent files with each file representing a single page of the page based document to ease the transfer and use of large page based document files.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

Web based collaborative annotation of high value deliverable product documents as part of a formal document review process saves time and money when compared to traditional face to face meetings or marked up document exchange. Web based collaborative annotation of deliverable product documents can also save time and money when compared to alternative review processes such as Webex style real time collaboration which requires all participants to work together at the same time.

When using Web based collaborative annotation the documents involved sometimes need to be exchanged over a wide area network for example the Internet in one or more well known page based document formats instead of HTML such as the Adobe Portable Document Format PDF the Microsoft PowerPoint or Microsoft WORD legacy or XML formats and the Microsoft XML Paper Specification XPS . This is particularly true with U.S. governmental entities such as the United States Air Force and the United States Navy which often require PDF documents. In In some cases deliverable documents will have a contractual requirement for formal draft review and comment disposition tracking. While presently existing known web based systems may support comment disposition tracking such systems often are constrained by the normal limitations of a web architecture in handling large PDF or Microsoft OFFICE i.e. POWER POINT or XPS type documents . Such limitations may include limited network bandwidth web server memory limitations and web browser memory limitations on the size of the files that can be loaded.

Often the size of PDF POWERPOINT or XPS versions of deliverable product documents greatly exceeds the maximum size that a standard wide area network architecture can handle. In many instances there may be a need to transfer documents that may contain many thousands of pages.

A typical solution to the large document problem is to break the large document down into a plurality of smaller documents that each have more manageable size. However estimating the ideal size and breaking the documents up is an ad hoc manual process. Moreover the ideal size of the document is often difficult to determine with a distributed group of users connecting from different locations with different computer hardware via different networks and firewalls.

In one aspect the present disclosure is related to a system for managing the communication of multi page documents. The system may comprise a software module document splitter adapted to receive a multi page document being uploaded as a single file and to split the multi page document into a plurality of independent files with each independent file representing a single page of the document. The software module document splitter may also associate meta data with each single page that enables the single pages to be downloaded one at a time by an electronic device being used by a user from a file storage device remote from the electronic device. This provides the appearance to the user that the electronic device is in possession of a single multi page file.

In another aspect the present disclosure is related to a method for managing communication of a page based document file between first and second electronic devices. The method may comprise receiving a page based document file having a plurality of pages of information from the first electronic device and splitting the page based document into a plurality of independent files. Each one of the plurality of independent files may represent a single page of the page based document file. Meta data may be stored concerning the page based document file with each one of the plurality of independent files. The independent files are provided with the meta data one at a time to the second electronic device.

In still another aspect the present disclosure is related to a method for managing communication of a page based document file between first and second electronic devices over a wide area network WAN . The method may comprise uploading a page based document file from a browser of the first electronic device over the WAN to a document splitter module with the page based document having a plurality of pages of information. The document splitter module is used to split the page based document into a plurality of independent files with each one of the plurality of independent files representing a single page of the page based document file. Meta data is stored concerning the page based document file with each one of the plurality of independent files. The plurality of independent files are downloaded with the meta data one at a time in response to page requests communicated from a browser of the second electronic device over the WAN.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses. It should be understood that throughout the drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

Referring to there is shown a system in accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure. The system generally may include a first electronic device a second electronic device a software document splitter module a wide area network WAN a WAN server and a database . The electronic devices and may be personal computer devices such as desktop computers laptops or any personal electronic device that enables a user to receive electronic documents and review and or edit such documents. Typically the first electronic device has a browser operating on it while the second electronic device also has a browser operating on it. The first and second electronic devices and also may each include a firewall and respectively.

The first electronic device may transmit a page based document file that may include tens hundreds or even thousands of pages of information. Such a file may be in the form of one of many well known formats for example the ADOBE Portable Document Format PDF or the Microsoft MS OFFICE format or XPS formats just to name a few. In all cases however these documents represent page based documents that are contained as a single large data file. As such when they are transmitted over a WAN for example the World Wide Web hereinafter simply Web they are transmitted as a single block of information. In many industries particularly the aerospace industry it is common and necessary to share large page based PDF Microsoft OFFICE or XPS documents between users connected by the Web. When such documents contain hundreds or even thousands of pages it becomes difficult or impossible to communicate such documents because of limited memory capability of the computing devices used and possible bandwidth constraints of the wide area network. This has necessitated that a user manually split a large page based document into a plurality of separate smaller documents before transmitting them over the wide area network to a different user. As will be appreciated this is time consuming and the user performing the splitting typically must guess how small each of the sub files must be made i.e. in bytes of information so that all of the other users who may be using the sub files will be able to easily use the sub files.

Using the system the consistent size of the split single page files also allows the page based documents to be stored in a standard relational database such as MS SQL Server rather than in a file system. This is because the geometry of the database field can be defined such that the single page file size will not exceed the maximum size of the data allowed in the database field. Furthermore the speed with which the WAN server can fetch the single page from the database is consistently fast. Conversely if the documents were stored as large multipage monolithic files in the database the geometry of the database files would have to be adjusted to the largest file that might be stored and the speed of database transfer between the web server and database would degrade and become unworkable as the file size increased.

The above document splitting operation is performed automatically by the system through the software document splitter module . For convenience this component will be referred to hereinafter simply as the splitter module . The splitter module receives the large multi page page based document over the WAN and splits it into single pages . Thus each of pages represents one specific page of the page based document . The splitter module further copies meta data associated with page based document into each of the separate pages . Meta data includes information that the current document was originally page n of x number of pages of the original document y. Meta data might also include global information from the original document including table of contents information.

The separate pages are then transmitted by the splitter module back over the WAN to the WAN server . The WAN server stores the separate pages in the database . The meta data associated with each page may be stored separately in the database as indicated by block . However the splitter module may also embed meta data such as the original page number of the document and the original name and location of its parent document in each separate page of the split document. Both approaches may be implemented by the system . Annotations made by a user to any one or more of the separate pages may also be stored separately in the database as indicated by annotations box . However when the separate pages are retrieved from the database upon a request from the second electronic device the database will also fetch any annotations associated with the specific page being requested. Thus each separate page may include the meta data of the page based document as well as any annotations associated with the particular requested page . Alternatively the annotations could be fetched by the database and transmitted separately by the WAN server and then combined with their associated pages at the second user s browser .

The meta data provided with each separate page facilitates the normal appearance and behavior of the original page based document for NEXT PREVIOUS AND GO TO page operations being requested by the user of the second electronic device . The user of the second electronic device may request specific pages via any of the NEXT PREVIOUS or GO TO buttons in the specific page he she is viewing and the user may also add or modify annotations existing in the specific page being viewed. Any new annotations made to a given page are then sent from the browser of the second electronic device back to the WAN server where the new annotations are stored in the database by the WAN server.

Because PDF and XPS and the MS OFFICE 2007 XML file formats pptx docx and xIsx are all published standards there are many ways one can split out a multi page document in one of these formats into individual pages. One such way is by writing code that reads the file directly and extracts the pages or by using an open source or third party library of calls that one integrates into the code. Still further one may use an application programming interface API exposed by an application associated with the file type for example ACROBAT WORD POWERPOINT etc.

As an additional example one may remotely control ACROBAT from another program and have it split out the pages of a large multi page document into separate files i.e. where each file represents a single page . Similarly one could remotely control MS WORD from its COM API and have it save out a large multi page document as individual page files. In any case it will be appreciated that many conventional methods may be used to physically split a page based document locally. The specific methodology one chooses will likely be dependent on various considerations such as performance licensing considerations or some other practical consideration such as the specific operating system and software the users already have installed on their devices.

As an additional specific example if one was going to convert a POWERPOINT presentation to PDF for reviewing. It may be quickest and most robust to remotely control the POWERPOINT application and save the pages of a multi page document out one at a time using the native support for saving as PDF in MS OFFICE 2007 rather than doing it some other way such as by converting the entire POWERPOINT to PDF and then using ACROBAT to split the PDF into pages.

Referring now to a flowchart is shown illustrating operations performed by the system in splitting the large page based document into the separate pages and handling associated annotations with each specific page . At operation the first user uses his her electronic device and its associated browser to upload the large page based document via the WAN to the splitter module . The splitter module splits the single large page based document into separate pages as indicated at operation . Thus if the page based document was 1000 pages in length then the splitter module would generate 1000 separate pages . The separate pages are then transmitted back over the WAN to the WAN server as indicated at operation along with the meta data associated with the page based file .

The WAN server stores each of the pages in the database along with the meta data and any annotations that were associated with the page based document as indicated at operation . The annotations may be stored in their native format e.g. PDF XHTML WORD format etc. . At operation the WAN server responds to a request for a specific page of the stored document being made by the second user from the second electronic device by downloading the specific requested page to the browser of the second electronic device as indicated at operation . Any annotations associated with the requested page are dynamically imported into the page as it is provided to the WAN server .

At operation the user may then add or modify any annotations existing on the just received page before uploading it back to the WAN server . At operation the second user then uploads the annotations to the WAN server which then stores them in the database . Thus when a user creates an annotation in a specific page and submits it back to the WAN server only that new annotation needs to be transmitted back to the database not the entire specific page document. Each annotation contains information about where it goes in the document i.e. exactly which page and where and is dynamically inserted back into the specific page when that specific page is again recalled by the same user or a different user.

The system and method of the present disclosure thus enables large page based document files to be handled easily by multiple users by splitting and saving such documents as separate pages. To the user downloading the separate pages from the WAN server it appears essentially as if the user s electronic device has possession of the entire large document file when in fact the user s browser only has possession of one page of the document at a time. The system makes it significantly easier for large documents to be communicated to a user who is using electronic equipment that may have limited processing power and memory capacity and which would therefore present significant challenges to the user s equipment in working with a page based document having hundreds or thousands of pages.

A specific advantage of the system is that it provides for convenient and easy to make network based collaborative annotations to page based documents. Thus various users at different locations that are accessing a wide area network may each download one page at a time of a large page based document create any needed annotations and upload each annotation back to the WAN server . The next user who downloads that specific page receives the annotations made by the previous user and he she may then add any further annotations before uploading the further annotated page back to the WAN server .

While various embodiments have been described those skilled in the art will recognize modifications or variations which might be made without departing from the present disclosure. The examples illustrate the various embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Therefore the description and claims should be interpreted liberally with only such limitation as is necessary in view of the pertinent prior art.

