---

title: Mobile device gateway systems and methods
abstract: A control system () for mounting to a vehicle () and for providing information to an occupant of the vehicle from a first source device () is provided. The vehicle includes an audio system () and/or a display system (). The control system includes a first interface () for communicating with the first source device (). The control system further includes a second interface for providing a signal to the audio system and/or the display system. The control system yet further includes a processor (). A memory unit () is communicably connected to the processor and includes a first transport () configured to send a control signal to the interface. The memory unit () further includes a first manager () configured to receive a command from an application () and to translate the command from the application () into a command for the transport ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09587958&OS=09587958&RS=09587958
owner: Visteon Global Technologies, Inc.
number: 09587958
owner_city: Van Buren Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
The present application claims the benefit of International Application No. PCT US2008 050436 filed Jan. 7 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 889 212 filed Feb. 9 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 881 953 filed Jan. 23 2007 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present application relates generally to the field of communication navigation and user control in a motor vehicle. The application relates more specifically to systems and methods for establishing and conducting communications between vehicle control systems and remote sources.

Vehicles typically include a number of electronics systems and subsystems such as an audio system a mobile telephone system a navigation system a vehicle entertainment system an engine management system that may be controlled by a user interface an HVAC system etc. One or more of these systems may include or be provided by a vehicle control system that may be setup in the vehicle. The control system may include a control interface and accompanying controls and may be configured to be coupled or integrated with other vehicle electronic systems such as a display system or an audio system.

Conventional vehicles may have control systems that are relatively stand alone in that they do not communicate well with other vehicle systems or remote sources. For example while some vehicle control systems may be configured to control an entertainment system or HVAC system the control system may have limited connectivity to other vehicle systems or remote sources. When typical vehicle control systems are capable of communicating with a remote source it is usually to accomplish a specific task with a single remote source. For example some control systems may be able to conduct a hands free mobile communications task with a cellular telephone. As remote sources such as personal digital assistants mobile phones portable media devices and portable navigational devices have become more popular and important for business and personal use it has become more desirable to increase connectivity and interactivity between remote sources and vehicle systems.

There is a need for a vehicle network gateway capable of facilitating multiple simultaneous data connections with a plurality of remote sources. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system capable of serving as a vehicle network gateway for the plurality of connected remote sources and a vehicle data bus. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system capable of facilitating the transfer of data from vehicle hardware modules to remote sources. Further there is a need for a method of using a vehicle control system with a connection to a vehicle data bus and a plurality of remote sources to provide increased functionality to one or more connected remote sources. Further there is a need for a method of using a vehicle control system connected to a plurality of remote sources to provide control system enhancements or features. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system capable of accepting audio streamed from wired or wireless remote sources and outputting the audio through the vehicle audio system. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system capable of accepting video streamed from wired or wireless remote sources and outputting the video through the vehicle display system. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system having the ability to receive turn by turn directions from a personal navigation device over a wired or wireless connection and having the ability to send these directions to a vehicle audio system for playback. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system having the ability to connect to an external memory device e.g. USB memory drive read media files from the memory device decode media files from the memory device and send audio to a vehicle audio system for playback. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system having the ability to decode files from a connected media player and having the ability to play digital rights management DRM protected files. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system having the ability to display and sort files stored on a connected remote source. Further there is a need for a vehicle control system having the ability to access media files via voice command.

It would be desirable to provide a system and or method that satisfies one or more of these needs or provides other advantageous features. Other features and advantages will be made apparent from the present specification. The teachings disclosed extend to those embodiments that fall within the scope of the claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the aforementioned needs.

One embodiment relates to a control system for mounting to a vehicle and for providing information to an occupant of the vehicle from a first source device. The vehicle includes an audio system and or a display system. The control system includes a first interface for communicating with the first source device. The control system further includes a second interface for providing a signal to the audio system and or the display system. The control system yet further includes a processor. A memory unit is communicably connected to the processor and includes a first transport configured to send a control signal to the interface. The memory unit further includes a first manager configured to receive a command from an application and to translate the command from the application into a command for the transport.

The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in various ways. Alternative exemplary embodiments relate to other features and combinations of features as may be generally recited in the claims.

Before turning to the figures which illustrate the exemplary embodiments in detail it should be understood that the application is not limited to the details or methodology set forth in the following description or illustrated in the figures. It should also be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description only and should not be regarded as limiting.

Referring to a vehicle includes a number of subsystems for user convenience and entertainment. Vehicle generally includes a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system a sound system and a vehicle control system e.g. media system navigational system entertainment system display system communications systems etc. . The HVAC system sound system and other systems may be coupled to vehicle control system which is capable of controlling and monitoring a variety of systems automatically or by a manual user command. It is noted that in various exemplary embodiments vehicle the HVAC system the sound system and other vehicle systems may be of any past present or future design capable of housing in the case of vehicle and interacting with vehicle control system .

Referring to one exemplary embodiment of vehicle control system is shown. Vehicle control system generally includes an output display one or more knobs one or more pushbuttons and one or more tactile user inputs or pushbuttons which facilitate controlling various vehicle functions. Output display may be configured to display data related to the control of the vehicle functions. In one exemplary embodiment output display may be a touch screen display while in other exemplary embodiments may be any other non touch sensitive display. In still other exemplary embodiments output display may be of any technology e.g. LCD DLP plasma CRT configuration e.g. portrait or landscape or shape e.g. polygonal curved curvilinear . The surface of the display may be curved in three dimensions or flat. Output display may be a manufacturer installed output display an aftermarket output display or an output display from any source. Output display may be an embedded display e.g. a display embedded in the control system or other vehicle systems parts or structures a standalone display e.g. a portable display a display mounted on a movable arm or a display having any other configuration. Input knobs and pushbuttons and may be configured to control functions of the HVAC system such as fan speed cabin temperature or routing of air flow to control playback of media files over the sound system to control retrieval of phonebook entries to control a function of a connected remote source or to control any other desired vehicle function.

It should be noted that pushbuttons and or other user interface elements e.g. knobs may be reconfigurable. The function of pushbuttons for example may be reconfigured to match the content on the screen. Accordingly a user may be able to make selections with pushbuttons specifically relating to an application making use of the display screen.

Pushbuttons typically allow for the selection and display of various functions of vehicle control system including sound system control media system control display system control communications system control hands free phone use HVAC system control contact or address phone book management calendar viewing and modification and vehicle data logging. The operation of pushbutton for media playback may display a media playback menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view select sort search for and or play audio or video files by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for hands free phone operation may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to connect vehicle control system to a mobile phone so that speaking into the vehicle console of vehicle control system operates the mobile phone. The operation of pushbutton for HVAC control may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to control cabin temperature and air flow by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for contact management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view list select sort search for edit and or dial one or more entries containing personal contact information by use of a tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for calendar management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view list select sort search for edit and or create one or more entries containing personal schedule information by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for vehicle log management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to input view select and or reset information related to the vehicle operation e.g. fuel economy engine temperature distance to empty etc. by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for controlling a mobile digital radio player not illustrated in may display a digital radio control menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to connect vehicle control system and a mobile digital radio player to view select sort search for and or otherwise interact with the various content channels of the satellite radio service accessed using the mobile digital radio player and or to view select sort search for and or otherwise interact with satellite radio content files stored on the mobile digital radio player using tactile and or oral commands. The operation of pushbuttons for display control not illustrated in may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to input view set select and or change display profile settings or display settings such as color resolution size language tilt or any other setting or variable by tactile or oral command. The operations of pushbuttons for communications control not illustrated in may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to input view select reset set or activate communications settings or communications modes by tactile or oral command. According to various other exemplary embodiments input from gesture sensors or presence sensors may be provided to vehicle control system to detect something other than touch. The gesture sensors or the presence sensors may be provided in place of tactile controls or in addition to tactile controls.

Pushbuttons and or any other user interface element s of vehicle control system may be used to control other vehicle subsystems such as but not limited to vehicle door locking systems vehicle cruise control systems seat control systems window control systems vehicle lighting systems vehicle radio system wireless control systems e.g. universal transmitter systems remote control system trainable transmitter systems a HomeLink system etc. media control systems and or any other control system that may accept user input.

Referring to vehicle control system is capable of accessing data files from a remote source over a communication link . For example vehicle control system may access media files phonebook data files calendar data or any other accessible data for use by vehicle control system . Vehicle control system may be capable of accessing data files from multiple remote sources over a single or multiple communication links. Vehicle control system may also send and receive requests signals files commands messages e.g. text messages voice messages etc. meta information stream data or information and any other type of data to and or from remote source over communication link .

Vehicle control system generally includes a communication device a data processing system a display driver a user interface an audio input device an audio output device an output display and a memory device .

Communication device is generally configured to establish communication link with remote source . In one exemplary embodiment vehicle control system may establish a wireless communication link such as with Bluetooth communications protocol an IEEE 802.11 protocol an IEEE 802.15 protocol an IEEE 802.16 protocol a cellular signal a shared wireless access protocol cordless access SWAP CA protocol a wireless universal serial bus USB protocol or any other suitable wireless technology. In another exemplary embodiment vehicle control system may establish a wired communication link such as with USB technology IEEE 1394 technology e.g. Firewire technology optical technology other serial or parallel port technology or any other suitable wired link. According to various other exemplary embodiments vehicle control system and communication device may form both wireless and wired connections with a plurality of remote sources. Communication links may be formed such that communication device may be simultaneously connected to multiple remote sources. Communication device may send and receive one or more data streams data strings data files and or other types of data e.g. non file based data from remote source . In various exemplary embodiments the data files may include text numeric data audio video program data command data information data coordinate data image data streaming media or any combination thereof.

Data processing system is coupled to communications device and is generally configured to control each function of vehicle control . Data processing system may facilitate speech recognition capabilities of vehicle control system for the convenience of the user. Data processing system may include digital or analog processing components and or be of any past present or future design that facilitates control or provides processing features to vehicle control system . Data processing system may be a single data processing device or multiple data processing devices. Data processing system may be a data processing device having data processing sub devices or components. Data processing system may include any combination of program software and hardware capable of providing control display communications input and output features to the vehicle. Data processing system may coordinate control and or facilitate the various devices components and features of the vehicle control system e.g. communications device output display display driver memory device audio system user interface audio input device audio output device etc .

Display driver is coupled to output display and is typically configured to provide an electronic signal to output display . In one exemplary embodiment the electronic signal may include the text and or numeric data of the data files while in other exemplary embodiments any other desired data may be included with the text and or numeric data or by itself in the electronic signal to output display . In another exemplary embodiment display driver may be configured to control output display with touch screen capabilities while in other exemplary embodiments display driver may be configured to control output display without making use of touch screen capabilities. Display driver may include any number of functions software or hardware to facilitate the control and display of images on output display . In still other exemplary embodiments display driver may be of any past present or future design that allows for the control of output display .

User interface is typically configured to facilitate tactile user interaction with vehicle control system . In various exemplary embodiments user interface may include pushbuttons or rotatable knobs as in the exemplary embodiment of in any similar or dissimilar configuration or may include other tactile user contact points.

Audio input device for example a microphone is configured to receive the utterance of a user for transmission to data processing system for speech recognition so that the functions of vehicle control system may be operated by voice command. Audio output device for example a built in speaker is configured to provide the user with an audio prompt of various functions such as user selection confirmation.

Memory device is configured to store data accessed by vehicle control system . For example memory device may store data input by remote source data created by data processing system that may be used later intermediate data of use in current calculation or process or any other data of use by vehicle control system .

Referring to vehicle control system and remote source are shown in greater detail. Data processing system may generally include a text to grammar device a speech recognition device and a text to speech device . Data processing system may include any number of additional hardware modules software modules or processing devices e.g. additional graphics processors communications processors etc. .

Text to grammar device is preferably coupled to communication device and is generally configured to generate a phonemic representation of the text and or numeric data of each of the data files received by communication device from remote source . The phonetic representation of the text and or numeric data of each data file may be configured to facilitate speech recognition of each data file. After conversion of a data file to a phonemic representation the data file may be accessed via an oral input command received by speech recognition device via audio input device . According to an exemplary embodiment text to grammar device may be able to provide phonemic representations of information received from a remote source.

Speech recognition device is typically configured to receive an oral input command from a user via audio input device . Speech recognition device compares the received oral input command to a set of predetermined input commands which may have been configured by text to grammar device . In various exemplary embodiments the input commands may be related to the playback of a media file the dialing or input of a phone book entry the entry or listing of calendar or contact data the control of the HVAC system or any other desired function to be performed on data. Speech recognition device may determine an appropriate response to the oral input command received from the user for example whether the oral input command is a valid or invalid instruction what command to execute or any other appropriate response. According to an exemplary embodiment speech recognition device may be able to trigger or activate a display reproduction mode when certain commands are recognized. Furthermore speech recognition device may be able to pass commands to remote device to facilitate interactive control of a remote source via a communication link.

Text to speech device is generally configured to convert the text and or numeric data of each data file received from remote source into an audible speech representation. This functionality may allow vehicle control system to audibly give data to the user via audio output device or the audio system . For example vehicle control system may repeat a user selected function back to the user provide navigational information announce directions announce menu options announce media file information provide phonebook or contact information or other information related to data stored in memory remote source remote server etc. According to an exemplary embodiment text to speech device may be able to provide an audible speech representation of information received from a remote source.

According to various other exemplary embodiments text to grammar functionality speech recognition functionality and text to speech functionality are implemented primarily in software and data processing system which is a general purpose data processing system. According to yet other exemplary embodiments text to grammar functionality speech recognition functionality and text to speech functionality are implemented partially in software and partially in hardware.

Memory device includes both a volatile memory and a non volatile memory . Volatile memory may be configured so that the contents stored therein may be erased during each power cycle of the vehicle control system or the vehicle . Non volatile memory may be configured so that the contents stored therein may be retained across power cycles such that upon vehicle control system and or vehicle power up data from previous system use remains available for the user. According to an exemplary embodiment non volatile memory may store one or more user profiles display profiles communications profiles navigation profiles or any other type of user or system setting file.

According to an exemplary embodiment remote source may be any suitable remote source that includes a transceiver and is able to interface with vehicle control system over communication link in either a wireless or wired embodiment. In various exemplary embodiments remote source may be one or more of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a personal navigation device PND a pager a remote server that may be coupled to the Internet or various other remote data sources. Remote source may have a storage device one or more processing devices and one or more communications devices. According to an exemplary embodiment remote source is a global positioning system capable remote source. According to various exemplary embodiments remote source may connect to the Internet or any other remote source with first communication device while communicating with vehicle control system using second communication device .

Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment vehicle control system is shown replicating the display of remote source on output display . Remote source is shown as a PDA or PND resting in supporting arm . Remote source may be a location sensing capable remote source e.g. a remote source having a GPS receiver configured to access navigational data and to use this navigational data to at least partially generate an image that may be shown on remote display . The vehicle control system may establish a communications link with remote source initiate a image replication mode receive images from remote source and display the received images on output display . According to various exemplary embodiments remote source is a remote source capable of generating e.g. partially generating completely generating or otherwise generating etc. graphics for output to its own display and communicating a images of the image displayed e.g. recently displayed currently displayed or in the future displayed etc. on its own display to control system . Providing an image from a remote source to a vehicle control system may be one example of a remote source providing a feature or enhancement to a vehicle control system . According to an exemplary embodiment communications device may allow multiple remote sources to be connected to control system simultaneously. When multiple remote sources are connected to control system more than one remote source may be used to provide a feature or features to control system . For example a PND may include a GPS device and may generate a map image based on its navigational data. This image may be transmitted to the control system for display and regularly updated as the vehicle moves. The vehicle control system may also communicate audio turn by turn directions to a user over a vehicle audio system by connecting to a remote source such as a PND and receiving turn by turn directions from the PND via the connected wired or wireless communications device. A mobile phone capable of conducting data communications may be simultaneously connected to the control system. The mobile phone may use its data features to download additional information about the image generated by the PND. This information may then be transmitted to the control system for overlay or other output on the control system. For example the mobile phone may download locations of nearby hotels or restaurants transmit these locations to the control system and the control system may use both the image received from the PND and the coordinates received from the mobile phone to provide an enhanced navigational feature to output display .

According to an exemplary embodiment remote source may have any number of processes software and or hardware to generate data for transmittal to control system . For example remote source may include a software program that extracts an image e.g. screenshot a bitmap screen dump screen capture etc. of the information presently or recently displayed on the remote display . This software may operate in any number of ways including reading hardware devices of the remote source to extract the information e.g. a memory device display buffer display driver buffer display hardware etc. and or using other software to extract the information e.g. display driver software operating system software etc. .

According to an exemplary embodiment remote source may also have communications software configured to facilitate the transfer of data information or images from remote source to vehicle control system . Communications software configured to facilitate the transfer of data may be integrated with the data generating software or may be relatively separate communications software. This software may include any number of variables that may determine the operation of the data generation and transfer functions. For example software loaded on remote source may include software with refresh rate variables e.g. how often to generate data how often to send data etc. capture variables e.g. how much of the screen to capture what resolution to capture at how often to capture a screen etc. and transfer variables e.g. how often to transfer how often to attempt to transfer what meta information to include with the transfer whether to compress the image before transfer etc. . These variables may be changed or edited with a user interface provided by remote source or with a user interface provided by vehicle control system . For example a user inside the vehicle may edit relevant communications and display variables with input devices a touch screen display and or with voice recognition. Relevant variable information may be stored within a memory device on remote source within vehicle control system or both. Variable information may be stored within either remote source or vehicle control system as profile information e.g. within a display profile a communications profile etc. . This profile information may be stored in non volatile memory e.g. non volatile memory flash memory etc. and may be recalled by vehicle control system when needed.

Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment control system is shown having data connections with a variety of remote sources. For example control system may establish a data connection with cellular telephone a PND a PDA a media player etc. Control system may be configured to establish simultaneous data connections with a plurality of remote sources using communications device . For example control system may establish a simultaneous data connection with mobile telephone and media player . According to various exemplary embodiments control system may establish simultaneous data connections with any combination and or number of remote sources. Control system may use data processing system and or a communications device to control the communications between the vehicle control system and a plurality of remote sources. The connected remote sources may transmit data directly to or from the vehicle control system. The vehicle control system may also be used as a network gateway or router and may be configured to route information from one remote source to other remote sources connected to the vehicle control system. Vehicle control system may include any number of hardware and or software components to implement multiple device connectivity. For example vehicle control system may have more than one wireless communications device more than one wired communications device and or any number of software drivers software profiles and software applications configured to facilitate and control multiple device connectivity.

Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment control system is shown having a connection with a vehicle data bus . The connection with vehicle data bus may be via an interface module of the control system. The vehicle data bus may be connected to a number of vehicle modules. These modules may include a GPS receiver module an engine control module a transmission control module a body control module a HVAC control module a fuel system module a compass module a timing control module an anti lock braking module etc. Vehicle data bus may be any electronic communications network that interconnects vehicle components. The vehicle modules connected to the vehicle data bus may typically receive input from sensors e.g. speed sensors temperature sensors pressure sensors etc. that the vehicle module may use in calculation. Vehicle modules may also use actuators to conduct actions commanded by the modules e.g. turn on a cooling fan change a gear unlock a door etc. . The modules may be configured to exchange data between themselves via the vehicle data bus . The control system or processing system may be configured to route information to or from vehicle modules on the vehicle data bus to or from other components of the control system or to or from remote sources. According to various embodiments vehicle bus may be a vehicle bus of any type or technology. For example vehicle bus may be a local interconnect network a controller area network a FlexRay bus a Media Oriented System Transport MOST a Keyword Protocol 2000 bus a serial bus a parallel bus a Vehicle Area Network a DC BUS a IDB 1394 bus a SMARTwireX bus a CAN e.g. BCAN bus an IE bus e.g. a GA NET bus etc. According to various exemplary embodiments vehicle data bus may be of any past present or future design capable of providing an electronic communications network that interconnects vehicle hardware components inside a vehicle. Vehicle control system may include any number of hardware interfaces transceivers bus controllers hardware controllers and or software controllers configured to control communication activities of the vehicle data buses of the vehicle.

Referring further to according to an exemplary embodiment control system may access data of vehicle data bus and further of vehicle hardware modules to provide features to control system and or to remote sources . For example control system may read compass information from compass module via vehicle data bus . Control system may display this information on any of its embedded displays but may also transfer this information to a remote source for further transmission display or processing. For example remote source a PND may use the information retrieved from the compass module to more accurately generate navigational images for transmission to the vehicle output display. According to another exemplary embodiment fuel system module may send a low fuel warning or information to control system . Control system may then use a WiFi enabled PDA or data communications enabled a cellular phone to download information regarding nearby gas stations. This information may be forwarded to control system for processing and display or routed through control system to remote source for processing on the PND. It is important to note than any number of enhanced data or control features may be added to control system and or to connected remote sources when control system is capable of serving as a network gateway simultaneously connected to a plurality of remote sources and vehicle hardware modules of a vehicle data bus.

Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment a control system having a communications device capable of serving as a communication gateway is illustrated. Control system may be simultaneously connected with devices on the vehicle data bus a plurality of remote sources a remote server and or any number of other vehicle systems or remote sources. Communications device may be a communications device capable of serving as a wired and or wireless network gateway. Communications device may be a communications device capable of creating a piconet. Multiple devices and or remote sources may be capable of forming communications links with communications device . Communications device may serve as a master node in a one to many data network with any number of remote sources acting as slaves. According to one exemplary embodiments communications device is a Bluetooth communications device capable of serving as a master device or a slave device on a Bluetooth piconet or scatternet. Processing system and communications device may be configured to establish communications links control data activities and conduct user interface functions necessary to provide network gateway features to vehicle control system . According to various other exemplary embodiments communications device may be a communications device or group of communications devices of any type or design of the past present or future capable of establishing multiple wireless data connections and serving as a network gateway. Communications device may work in conjunction with data processing systems of the control system to accomplish various communications and data tasks. For example a vehicle control system having multiple wired and wireless communications devices may use a data processing system a software operating system and a variety of communications software to coordinate many of the communications tasks of the vehicle control system and to enable the control system to function as a mobile device gateway.

Referring further to according to an exemplary embodiment control system has a first wireless data communications range . This first wireless data communications range may be based on a first wireless protocol or technology. Control system may have a second wireless data communications range that enables it to connect with remote sources outside of its first wireless data communications range. For example control system may include a second wireless protocol or technology that allows it to communicate with a remote server located beyond the first wireless data communications range . While control system is shown communicating with remote sources in a star or one to many network topology any network topology may be used. For example control system and its communications device may serve as a node or coordinator or controller of a meshed network of a network made up of multiple nodes. It is important to note that each remote source may also have multiple communications methods devices and or protocols. For example remote source may be a mobile phone capable of maintaining simultaneous data connections with control system and a cellular antenna . Similarly PND may be a GPS device capable of maintaining simultaneous data connections with control system and a satellite . Remote source a PDA for example may be capable of maintaining simultaneous data connections with control system and a WiFi router . When used in this manner remote source may access or communicate with devices on an external network e.g. computers of the WiFi network formed by wireless router etc. . Vehicle control system may be able to coordinate or recognize these multiple communications and use them for increased functionality. Remote sources may also be configured to communicate between themselves. For example remote sources and may be capable of communicating between themselves while maintaining a connection with control system . This connection is shown as communications link .

Referring further to control system may serve as a wireless or wired access point or router for all remote sources connected to the control system. For example remote source e.g. a PDA may be able to send information to computers from remote source e.g. a portable media player using control system to route data from remote source to to computers . Control system may be able to route information from the vehicle modules connected to the vehicle data bus to remote sources and or eventually to the network of router and computers . According to various exemplary embodiments control system may route information to and from any vehicle module system device or remote device to which it is connected. Control system including data processing system and communications device may be configured to conduct all network tasks necessary to facilitate the described data communications tasks. For example control system may control communications device to pair remote sources to vehicle control system . Control system may provide a user interface prompting the user through a pairing process. Once devices are paired and connected communications device may conduct any number of digital and or analog communications tasks necessary to conduct desired data or voice communications. For example communications device with or without help from data processing system may conduct any number of encryption tasks modulation tasks spread spectrum tasks prioritizing tasks frequency hopping tasks etc.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of responding to a received text message is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A text message may be received by a device e.g. PDA cell phone etc. coupled to or connected to a vehicle control system step for example vehicle control system . The vehicle control system may display and or playback options e.g. using the display system and or audio output system relating to responding to the text message step . The options may include but are not limited to reading the message e.g. displaying and or playing back the message for a user of the vehicle calling the sender of the message ignoring the message transferring the message to another device forwarding the message to another phone number forwarding the message to an e mail address and replying to the message e.g. via an audible or tactile input .

If the user selects to read the message step the message may be displayed on a display system e.g. display system and or played back on an audio system e.g. audio system for the user step . The audio system may use the text to speech device of to configure the text message into an audible speech representation for the audio system. If the user selects to call the sender of the message step the device may call the sender of the message step . The vehicle control system may use the hands free phone operation described in to assist the device and user in calling the sender of the message. If the user selects to reply to the message step options for the reply message may be displayed or played back on the vehicle control system step and the user may choose an option and the option may be received by the vehicle control system step . For example a list of options may be displayed or played back on the vehicle control system such as Yes No I am driving etc. The user may select a predefined option to send as a reply to the text message. Alternatively the user may provide the vehicle control system with an audible response via an audio input device and the vehicle control system may use a speech recognition device to convert the input into a text message to send as a reply to the text message. The reply may then be sent to the sender of the original text message using the hands free phone operation of or other method step .

Referring to a block diagram of control system coupled to a vehicle module e.g. body control module is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Vehicle module may be comprised of various vehicle modules and systems relating to the functionality of the vehicle. For example a lighting system door lock system window system security system module HVAC system and or other systems may be included within vehicle module .

Control system may include an embedded phone module . Embedded phone module may be configured to accept data from a cellular phone PDA or other remote device that may connect to control system . Control system may connect to vehicle module via vehicle data link or bus providing vehicle module with data received from embedded phone module . The data may include commands or requests regarding various vehicle systems of vehicle module . For example commands may include a request to lock or unlock the doors of the vehicle to lower or raise the windows of the vehicle to turn on or off the interior lights of the vehicle to turn on the heat air conditioning or other HVAC feature of the vehicle etc.

It is important to note that embedded phone module may be configured to handle a variety of call types and or communication types. For example embedded phone module may be configured to place a voice call send text messages e.g. SMS messages operate as a modem using a voice call send and or receive control channel data and conduct data calls e.g. 1 RTT data calls . Furthermore it is important to note that any of the activities call types or communication types of the embedded phone may be originated via logic of the vehicle control system and or in response to signals received from a remote source at the vehicle control system. Similarly the activities call types or communication types of the embedded phone may be terminated via logic of the vehicle control system and or in response to signals received from a remote source at the vehicle control system. It is also important to note that the activities call types or communication types of the embedded phone may be managed by one or more software applications of control system or by a connected mobile network.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of communications between a remote device e.g. cell phone PDA etc. and a control system e.g. the control system shown in is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A control system e.g. control system of the vehicle may receive a communication request from the remote device step for example a telephone call from a mobile phone. The device may be connected and data may be received by the control system via the connection or call step . The received data is interpreted step for example converted from an audible command to a textual representation of the command.

Based on the interpreted data a signal may be sent to a vehicle module step . For example if a user wishes to lock the doors of the vehicle a signal to lock the doors may be provided by the control system to the body control module. Once the command indicated by the signal has been executed by the vehicle module a confirmation may be received by the control system from the vehicle module step . The confirmation is then sent to the connected device for use by the user step .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of communications between a remote device e.g. cell phone PDA etc. and a control system e.g. the control system shown in is shown according to another exemplary embodiment. A vehicle module e.g. door lock engine cluster display etc. may send information to the vehicle data bus and the control system may receive the information from the vehicle data bus step . The information received may then be interpreted step for example to define a signal that may be sent to a remote device or other module for viewing by a user of the vehicle. It is important to note that the information need not be received at the control system from the vehicle data bus but could be information generated by the control system information relating to a device connected to the control system information from a body module directly connected to the control system or any other information.

A communications link e.g. via a phone call may be established between the control system and a remote source step . According to an exemplary embodiment the communications link is formed using a phone module communicably or fixably coupled to the control system e.g. an embedded phone module . Once the link is established a signal representing the information may be provided to the remote source step . The signal may correspond to a state of a system of the vehicle module e.g. if the doors are locked if an alarm was activated etc. .

According to an exemplary embodiment the remote source contacted in method is a service organization or service provider. After receiving the information from the vehicle control system the service provider may further interpret the information and or forward the information or a message based on the information to another device or source e.g. a user e mail address a pager a cell phone number a device configured to receive text messages etc. . For example the vehicle control system may include logic that determines that a crash has occurred. Once this determination is made the vehicle control system may use an embedded phone module to call a service provider. The service provider may inform emergency resources e.g. an ambulance the police and also send an alert to a family member s cell phone.

From time to time modules of the vehicle the vehicle control system and or a connected device may require software firmware updates to enable additional features to fix errors and or to improve performance. According to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system may be configured to update based on information received from a connected device. According to yet other exemplary embodiments the vehicle control system may provide updates from a first connected device to another connected device. For example a mobile phone connected to the control system via a USB connection may be able to provide an update for a HomeLink device connected to the vehicle control system. The vehicle control system may be configured to receive one or more update files from a connected device network e.g. the Internet mobile phone network etc. or other connected remote source. Once received the vehicle control system may process the update file to conduct the update and or forward the update file to another connected device. The updating activity may update control system or device firmware operating system components software applications device drivers and or any other module function software executable in non volatile memory configuration file or component that may be updated via software. The update process may include any number of authenticating decompressing and or decrypting steps to attempt to ensure the update is secure and or expected.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of decoding a system update file for example via a wired or wireless USB connection is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The file is first received by a system responsible for encoding and decoding files step such as control system . Method may then determine if the signature of the file is available in a keyring step . The keyring generally contains decryption codes for known signers and signatures for files. The codes may be used to determine file properties such as module model and serial number vehicle vendor model or VIN etc. According to an alternative exemplary embodiment any other technique of determine if a file may be decrypted or not may be used. If the keyring does not have a decryption code for the file method may terminate. Otherwise the message may be decrypted using the appropriate decryption code step .

If the decoding of the file is complete and or correct step then the resulting extracted file may be applied to the appropriate vehicle function step . The encoded or encrypted file may contain an executable command configuration files scripts etc. that may be applied once decoded. For example the file may be an update file containing information regarding user preference and the preferences stored within the memory of the vehicle control system may be updated with the update file once extracted. If the decoding is not complete or correct a decrypt code may be applied again in an attempt to decode the file step .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of running an Internet audio application is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The audio application may be a streaming audio application e.g. audio is continuously received and played back on the vehicle control system or otherwise e.g. audio is downloaded to the vehicle control system and then played back . According to various exemplary embodiments the application may be an audio application video application a combination of an audio and video application or other media application. The vehicle control system e.g. control system may receive a request from a user to play streaming audio from an Internet location step 

A determination is made as to whether a dial up connection may be formed using Bluetooth connection to a mobile device step . According to other alternative embodiments another connection may be used in place of a Bluetooth connection and another network may be connected to other than a dial up network. If a connection may be made a link over the dial up network may be established step . The link may be a point to point protocol PPP link or otherwise.

A determination is made whether the network link signal strength is sufficient step . For example the network link may be deemed sufficient if the system determines that streaming audio may be played on the vehicle control system of the vehicle without substantial interruption in the audio output. If the network link is sufficient a connection to a selected site is made in which audio data may be transferred from the site to the vehicle step .

The user may exit method in a variety of ways. The user may manually select to exit method either via an audible or tactile input step . If the audio data provided has ended e.g. a song is done playing an audio program has finished etc. method may be terminated step . If the network link that was formed fails for any reason method may be terminated step . Otherwise the audio data may continue to be played back on an audio system of the vehicle control system.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method for device training using a phone system of the vehicle control system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A phone system may be embedded within the control system or a cellular phone may be coupled to the control system. Training may relate to a user training a vehicle system on desired settings or preferences for the vehicle system e.g. HVAC preferences seat properties e.g. recline seat position and location etc. etc. . Training may also relate to a user training a universal or trainable transmitter coupled to the vehicle for operative transmission to a target device external the vehicle. For example training may relate to programming a user interface element e.g. a button of a HomeLink device to activate the transmission of a signal configured to be recognized by a garage door receiver or other receiving device. A training process may be executed to train the device step . The user may be required to press and or hold a number of buttons inside the vehicle or to press and or hold a button on the receiving device. A determination is made as to whether the training was successful step . This determination may be made by the user the vehicle control system or a device to be trained e.g. a universal transmitter . For example the user may speak into a microphone or indicate via a tactile user interface TUI or graphical user interface GUI that training was successful or was not successful. This user input may be in response to a prompt from the universal transmitter or control system to a display or audio playback device. The success of the training may relate to if the user input was understood and the user preference was successfully set by the associated vehicle system. If the training was successful method may terminate.

Otherwise a determination is made as to whether there is a connection to the vehicle control system step e.g. a connection between the component to be trained and the vehicle control system . If so a determination as to whether a connection may be made between the vehicle control system and a phone or other outside device is made step . If so a phone number relating to training assistance may be dialed by a phone system of the vehicle control system step . The phone number may be a pre stored number for user assistance or an updated number may be retrieved from a directory or remote source. Audio and or video playback of instructions for training a device may then be presented to a user of the vehicle and a vehicle system step . A prerecorded message may be played back for the user an operator may be available to talk to on the phone line or any other training method may be used in step .

According to an exemplary embodiment the device to be trained and or the vehicle control system obtains information regarding which training step or aspect is failing. Using this information the device or system may look up a certain number to dial e.g. from a look up table or database . Different numbers may relate to different training problems. Once the number is dialed and a call established the user may immediately hear a training message tailored to his or her specific problem. According to various other exemplary embodiments the failure or problem information is transmitted via data communications via an embedded or connected communications device e.g. embedded phone connected mobile phone connected WiFi device etc. to a remote source. The remote source may parse the information and based on the parsed information the remote source may tailor the response provided back to the device or system. For example the remote source may provide a specific recorded message based on the information the remote source may send display information for output to a vehicle display system and or the remote source may connect the user via a voice connection to an appropriate resource.

It is important to note that the user may be provided with the option of calling or receiving assistance in the event of a failure. For example an audio prompt and or a display prompt may ask the user whether a call or should be made or assistance otherwise requested. According to various exemplary embodiments a phone number to call and or a website to visit may be displayed and or played back. This may provide the user with the option of receiving assistance at his or her leisure. It is also important to note that the assistance need not be requested via a phone call. For example the device or system may be configured to request a help file e.g. text PDF etc. an audio file e.g. mp3 of instructions etc. and or a website or hypertext page relating to the failure or need for assistance.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of finding a service station e.g. a fueling station is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A communication link may be established between a remote source e.g. a PND and a vehicle control system step . A determination may be made as to whether the fuel supply of the vehicle is low or not step . A signal may be relayed from a fuel tank system of the vehicle via a vehicle data bus to the control system if the fuel tank is low step . Otherwise there may be no change to the status of the remote device e.g. a PND step .

If the fuel level is low the PND finds fueling station information for fueling stations that are nearby step . The PND may search for all fueling stations within a specific distance or location from the current location of the vehicle. For example all stations within a certain radius may be found e.g. 10 mile radius 20 mile radius etc. all stations within a certain time period may be found e.g. a station that will take 15 minutes to drive to 20 minutes etc. etc. Fueling station information may include an address phone number cost of fuel various specials or coupons associated with station products etc.

The location of the vehicle as determined by the PND may be altered. For example the speed pulse gyro or reverse gear of the vehicle may be used to adjust the location of the vehicle as indicated by the PND. For example in the time between steps and the position of the vehicle may change. The vehicle control system may gather the various properties of vehicle movement and change the coordinates of the vehicle location as provided by the PND therefore adjusting the route provided in the steps below and also adjusting the choices of fueling stations if necessary.

A display system and or an audio output system may be updated to provide the compiled fueling station information to a user of the vehicle step . The user may indicate a preference to be routed to a nearby fueling station step . If the user does not want to be routed no change to the status of the PND occurs step . If the user does want to be routed a fueling station is selected step . The selection of the fueling station may be made by the user either via a tactile input or an audible command. Alternatively the control system and or PND may select a fueling station based on distance to travel to the fueling station the cost of fuel or any other property selected by either the user or the control system and or PND. Once the fueling station is selected the PND may be used to find a route to the fueling station to display and or playback to the user of the vehicle step .

Method may be adjusted to account for other vehicle properties than a low fuel cell. For example a tire pressure gauge may indicate a problem with a tire pressure a door or trunk sensor may indicate an open door or trunk while traveling or the lighting system may indicate a problem with a malfunctioning headlight or brake light and method may be used to locate a service station rest stop or other area where the problem can be resolved. As another example the vehicle control system may receive weather information from a remote source relating to severe weather e.g. thunderstorm snowy or icy conditions etc. and method may be used to determine the safest route of travel e.g. traveling on a main thoroughfare or highway during icy conditions . In addition service information or video stream information may be used to signal a need for the vehicle to locate a service station and method may be used.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of updating preferences on a remote device such as a PND is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A communication link between the PND and a control system is established step . A device e.g. a key fob cell phone PDA or other personal hand held device is detected by control system step . The detection may occur via a wireless connection e.g. the device comes within range of the control system or via a wired connection e.g. the device includes an interface for coupling to the control system . The device may have a personalized identification ID detected by the control system. The device may contain data or otherwise be associated with various settings and preferences for the PND or other remote device. The settings and preferences may be transferred to the PND or other remote device and the setting and preferences of the PND or other remote device may then be adjusted step . As an example a key fob may include settings or preferences relating to a PND and the connection between the key fob and control system may result in the control system receiving setting and preference information and relaying the data to the PND.

Method may be adjusted to include transferring setting and preference information between any number and types of devices and remote devices.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of changing settings on a remote device such as a PND is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A communication link between the PND and a control system is established step . A vehicle preference may be detected or received step . According to one embodiment a user of the vehicle and PND may identify himself or herself to the control system and the preferences of the user may be stored in the memory of the control system. The user may identify himself or herself via an audible command or tactile input or the user may have an identification tag or other device that may be detected by a vehicle system of the vehicle control system. Step may also include the process of the user selecting preferences for the PND and the selected preferences may or may not be stored in the memory of the control system.

Preferences may includes seat position side mirror positions HVAC system settings etc. Preferences may also include personal settings for a remote device such as a PND. For example personal settings for a PND may include a map color map view e.g. 2 D 3 D zoom level etc. voice type language welcome greetings itineraries a favorites menu safety settings recent destination listings home location music profiles etc. The various personal settings of the PND may be set for a particular user of the PND.

Once the user is identified and the preferences of the user are determined the settings of the PND may be adjusted step . The PND may store the settings in memory for a particular user. The PND may then update and change the settings for the user step .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of determining a route using a PND or other remote navigation device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A communication link is established between a control system and the PND step . The control system receives a user input either via an audible command tactile input or other user interface relating to a request for a route to a specific location e.g. home step . Examples of other locations may include restaurants service stations points of interests POIs lodging etc. The request is sent to the PND step . The PND may be coupled to the control system via a wired connection or may communicate with the control system wirelessly.

The PND receives the request and calculates a route based upon the current position of the vehicle step . The route is sent to the control system step and is configured for a display output or audio output device of the vehicle for the user step .

Method may be adapted for various purposes. For example a user of the vehicle may have a favorites list of locations which the user may choose to receive a route to. The user may also use method to re route or calculate a new route to travel from the vehicle s current location to a destination e.g. traffic road or weather conditions may prompt the user to desire a new route . In addition PND settings may be altered in conjunction with method . For example zoom settings may be altered e.g. the user may request a view of the city country county etc. or may request the map to zoom in or out playback options may be altered e.g. mute the sound raise or lower the volume etc. etc.

One type of media player is a mobile digital radio for example a satellite digital audio receiver system SDARS or a high definition digital radio HD radio . Mobile digital radios may be capable of being moved by a user between the vehicle office or workplace home or other locations e.g. the user taking the radio into a shopping center using the radio while at an exercise station etc. . The mobile digital radio may be a standalone device e.g. the radio is functional without the use of an additional device or may be used in conjunction with another device. The mobile digital radio may generally connect to an audio input e.g. a computer at a workplace or home a vehicle control system of a vehicle etc. using an audio output device of the mobile digital radio. Alternatively the mobile digital radio may connect wirelessly with another device.

Other examples of media players may include a satellite radio an HD SDARS radio satellite video e.g. a TV video via WiMax or other technology and other handheld video devices.

As discussed in a vehicle control system may be configured to send and receive data to and or from a remote source over a communication link. As an example vehicle control system may input satellite radio service content that is being received in real time by the mobile digital radio player satellite service content that was previously received by and stored in the mobile digital radio player and or any other data stored in the mobile digital radio player that is usable by vehicle control system .

Referring to a block diagram of control system coupled to a mobile digital radio is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Control system may include a digital radio module configured to accept an input from mobile digital radio and configure the input for an audio output device of control system as well as be configured to accept an input from an input device of control system . Control system may couple to mobile digital radio either via wireless interface or wired interface .

Mobile digital radio may include a remote command and control interface . Interface may be configured to accept a user input either via audible command or tactile input relating to command and control signals. Interface may pass the received signals to a digital radio player which controls the functions of radio based on the received signals. In various exemplary embodiments the functions may include one or more of satellite channel selection playback of stored satellite radio service content storing deleting and or otherwise managing received satellite radio service content volume control and or any other current implemented or later developed or unimplemented function of radio .

Player control module may be included in radio . Module may relate to controlling various functions of radio . The functions may relate to the choice of audio file to play the genre of audio files to select from volume levels and other audio properties. Module may provide control system with data corresponding to steps of . Radio may include various technologies hardware software algorithms and any other resource that may be necessary or desirable to effect authentication encryption decryption and the like that may be required to enable interface to radio .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of using the digital radio device of is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A control system of a vehicle may recognize the digital radio device step . Step may occur when a user or control system initializes the method may occur when the digital radio device couples to the control system or may occur when the digital radio devices comes within a wireless range of the control system. A communication link either wireless or wired is established between the control system and digital radio device step . The control system provides a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface GUI a voice driven user interface VUI a text user interface TUI etc. for a user of the vehicle step . The user may use the interface to send a command to the digital radio device via the control system. The control system receives the commands step and generates a control signal based on the received command step . The control signal is sent via the communication link to the digital radio device step .

The digital radio device may provide the control system with status information step audio step and metadata step . Status information may relate to the status of the digital radio device e.g. the products and services offered by the digital radio device if various products and services are available or not operational state status or associated ancillary information etc. . The audio may be audio requested by the user via the user interface. Meta information may relate to data associated with the audio e.g. if a song is provided artist album genre and other music properties .

According to various exemplary embodiments a vehicle control system e.g. a vehicle control system shown in the FIGS. and described herein may be configured to provide conveniently activated synchronization data retrieval or downloading mechanisms that allow transfer synchronization updating or augmenting of the files into or out of the vehicle control system. The vehicle control system may be configured to include a dictation engine that allow a user to dictate a spoken message using a microphone coupled to the vehicle control system. The dictation engine may convert the dictated speech into text using speech recognition technology. The text files can be transferred to or from the vehicle control system and any remote destination using any known or later developed wired or wireless technology. The vehicle control system may further be configured to convert text on the text files between full words or phrases and abbreviated text e.g. SMS style text texting style text etc. .

Referring briefly to the operation of pushbuttons either through tactile operation or through oral commands received by the vehicle control system for message playback may display various menu screens or execute commands that allow the user to select messages for playback select voices to be used during playback and or other playback options as well as to input view select and or reset information relating to data information or the like sent by the user from a remote source. The operation of the pushbuttons for the message dictation function may display various menu screens to execute commands that allow the user to input a new message orally to be transcribed into a text message such as for example an e mail message or SMS message. The pushbuttons for the message dictation function also may display various menu screens to execute commands that allow the user to view select send edit and or delete previously dictated messages.

Referring to in the flow diagram of method if the vehicle control system receives a command to begin recording a message for dictation step the vehicle control system will begin recording step using an audio input device e.g. audio input device . When recording has started the system may prompt the user to begin speaking step or that recording has now begun. Once the user is finished dictating the message the message is stored in the vehicle control system as an audio file step . The audio file may be an audio file according to a variety of formats e.g. a compressed audio file an MP3 file a WAV file an uncompressed audio file etc. . The resulting audio file may then be converted into a text file step . The conversion may be completed utilizing a speech recognition module e.g. device . The resulting text file can be sent using any known or later developed device or method for sending data communications. The resulting text file may also be stored in the vehicle control system step for transmission at a later time from the vehicle control system step . According to various exemplary embodiments the text message may be transmitted as a data file such as for example an e mail message or a text message.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system for synchronizing and or transferring text between remote sources and vehicle control system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Vehicle control system may be configured to provide a transfer system interface to a vehicle display system. According to various other exemplary embodiments vehicle control system may be configured to provide a transfer system interface to a remote source e.g. home computing device via a web server or another service residing on the vehicle control system. According to yet other exemplary embodiments a transfer system interface may also or alternatively reside on a remote source e.g. work computing device .

Referring further to computer code residing in memory of control system is configured to facilitate the transfer and or synchronization of files between computing devices shown connected to vehicle control system via network mobile computing device and or memory of vehicle control system . The transfer system interfaces e.g. are generally configured to allow a user to control the transfer and or synchronization of the files. According to an exemplary embodiment the transfer system interface provides the user with an icon for one or more computing devices that may be configured to connect to the vehicle control system and an icon for the vehicle control system. The user may be allowed to drag files or icons to any of the computing devices and or the vehicle control system. Once a file or device is dragged to a destination for transmission reception or synchronization of data files the transfer system interface and or other suitable components of the vehicle control system may prepare the file s for transmission e.g. compress the files package the files encrypt the files etc. . The file s may then be transmitted to the selected destination either wirelessly or by wired communications and or using any other known or later developed storage and or transport device or system.

Referring further to in embodiments where a remote source includes a transfer system interface e.g. transfer system interface or where the vehicle control system may remotely e.g. wirelessly provide the transfer system interface to the remote source e.g. computing devices a user may be able to drag files or devices from memory local to the computing device to an icon representing the vehicle control system. The transfer system interface may then be configured to facilitate the transfer of files from the remote source to the vehicle control system. Transferring files e.g. particularly text files from the remote source to the vehicle control system may allow the user to continue to review documents or files while traveling in the vehicle e.g. using vehicle control system as a text reader . Once files are received by the vehicle control system the control system may be configured to prepare the files for display audio playback and or selection by the user. For example when the vehicle control system powers up the vehicle control system may display recently received files to the user via a display system for selection. According to various exemplary embodiments the user can access the received files through a variety of commands e.g. tactile commands and or voice commands . The user may request that the system read aloud a selected text file where the selected text file is for example a word processing document an e mail message an SMS message a meta data file or another type of suitable file. The system may also be configured to read meta data and or header information from one or more other files e.g. media files etc. . Once selected the vehicle control system may be configured to convert the text of the selected text file into an audio signal. The signal can be output directly to the audio system and played for the user. By way of further example once files are received by the vehicle control system a text to speech module hardware and or software may prepare an audio file for playback based on the text. The vehicle control system may be configured to conduct this activity in the background and may provide the user with an indication when a text file has been converted to an audio file and is ready for audio playback.

Referring briefly to text to speech device is generally configured to convert the text and or numeric data of a data file received from a remote source into an audible speech representation. This functionality may allow the vehicle control system to audibly give data and or read a text file message or string to the user via the audio output device or the audio system . It is important to note that the text for conversion into an audible speech representation need not be received from a remote source. For example in addition to reading a text file message or string the vehicle control system may repeat a user selected function back to the user announce media file information provide phonebook or contact information provide turn by turn directions turn prompts or other vehicle navigation data or other information related to data stored in memory device and or a remote source.

According to various exemplary embodiments the vehicle control system may be configured to present the user e.g. via a GUI or VUI with a wide variety of choices regarding how the a converted text file should be played. For example when converting and or playing back an SMS message the user could have previously recorded a voice of the audio of the SMS message and stored a representation of the author s voice in the memory of the vehicle control system . In various other exemplary embodiments the user can then use that voice representation when that SMS message is converted from text to speech and played to the user. The user could further purchase or use a representation of a celebrity s voice for a text to speech conversion of a text string that is played through the audio system of the vehicle control system.

According to various other exemplary embodiments the text to grammar device the text to speech device and or other hardware software shown in are also usable to translate SMS style shorthand text strings in a message or the like into a commonly understood or more complete utterance e.g. a proper English language equivalent before or during processing. The translation may occur prior to processing the text into a phonemic representation for audio playback. By way of example a user may receive an SMS message formatted using popular shorthand text such as l8r for the word later. In such exemplary embodiments the text to grammar device and or the text to speech device interprets the shorthand text string l8r and translates it into the appropriate phonemic representation. In various exemplary embodiments the text to grammar device and or the text to speech device can convert these SMS style shorthand messages into equivalent utterances inserting equivalent text into the text message or the like in place of the SMS style shorthand text strings for display on a vehicle display system.

It should be appreciated that the text to grammar device and or the speech recognition device can automatically or controllably convert recognized words in a dictated message that have SMS style shorthand text strings into their equivalent SMS style shorthand text. This activity may occur prior to outputting the recognized text message or text file to a cell phone or other remote source. It should be appreciated that the text to grammar device can convert an SMS style shorthand text strings into a commonly understood utterance e.g. word sentence phrase proper English phoneme phoneme set etc. using any appropriate known or later developed device system or method including but not limited to a local translation table accessing a database look up table an algorithm designed to translate SMS style shorthand text strings into the equivalent phonemic representation of English word or the like. Likewise the speech recognition device or text to grammar device can convert the user s speech into appropriate SMS style shorthand text strings using any appropriate known or later developed device system or method including for example a local translation look up table accessing a remote server database lookup table an algorithm designed to translate English into SMS style shorthand text strings or the like.

Referring now to a block diagram of a vehicle control system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A controller is shown communicably connected to random access memory and flash memory . Controller may be a single processor a single microcontroller a plurality of processors and or microcontrollers an application specific integrated circuit one or more field programmable gate arrays a general purpose processor or any other suitable processing system. According to an exemplary embodiment controller is a processor such as the RENESAS Super SH4R processor.

Random access memory may be communicably connected to controller via an address bus and a data bus. Controller may include a local bus interface for connecting to the address bus and data bus. Local bus interface may include hardware and or software elements for controlling the activities of the address bus the data bus random access memory and or flash memory .

Controller may include or be coupled to a video module . Video module may include a number of hardware and or software elements for sending and or receiving a video signal e.g. an analog signal a digital signal to a display interface . Display interface may include one or more jacks terminals or other hardware connections for coupling the system to a display module e.g. an LCD display a TFT display an OLED display etc. . According to various exemplary embodiments video module is not included on controller . According to yet other exemplary embodiments display interfaces and or may be integral with microcontroller . Display interface may generally be configured to receive a video signal from a wired remote source. Display interface may provide the video signal changed or unchanged to video module .

Controller is further shown to include interface . Interface may be configured to communicably couple communications devices such as a Bluetooth transceiver and or miscellaneous serial communications interfaces to controller . Various user interface elements e.g. buttons touch screens joysticks switches etc. may be coupled to controller via a general purpose input output interface . According to an exemplary embodiment interface is a serial interface.

Various activities of controller may require or be assisted by one or more co processors or second controllers. Such devices may include a digital rights management DRM co processor and may be operatively coupled to controller via an interface or any other suitable method. DRM co processor may generally be configured to decrypt and or unlock digital media files protected by digital rights management access control methods. According to an exemplary embodiment interface is a serial interface.

Controller is further shown to include a universal serial bus USB interface or host which may support a USB port . Components and may be USB components configured to be compatible with any past present or future standard for USB interfaces.

Controller is further shown to include an audio input output conditioning module coupled to an audio interface or audio bus . Audio conditioning module may include hardware and or software configured to provide digital signal processing filtering noise reduction and or any other conditioning activity. According to an exemplary embodiment controller is further shown to include a RESET and Oscillator Clock coupled to an interface for coupling controller to the device .

Controller is shown to include vehicle data bus interfaces and . Vehicle data bus interfaces and may be of the same or different types. For example vehicle data bus interface may be configured to communicate with a media oriented systems transport MOST compatible data bus while vehicle data bus interface is configured to communicate with a controller area network CAN bus . According to an exemplary embodiment different vehicle data bus types may be provided. For example a vehicle data bus of the system may be an IEBus e.g. GA NET bus . According to an exemplary embodiment at least one vehicle data bus interface of controller is an arbitrated bus or an arbitrated audio bus such as a GA NET compatible bus. According to various exemplary embodiments the arbitrated bus is dedicated to audio activities. In addition to the arbitrated audio bus a separate audio video specific bus may be provided e.g. a rear seat entertainment system bus a video bus a data video bus a data bus etc. .

Referring now to a high level block diagram of the functional software and or hardware architecture of system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Software may generally reside in memory and or and may include software code for undertaking the various activities described herein. System is shown to include applications system services voice services a graphics display module a remote device transport module a real time operating system OS and device drivers .

Referring further to according to an exemplary embodiment applications may include a wide variety of applications configured to provide features to the system and or the user. For example applications may include hands free calling applications phonebook access applications text messaging applications music management applications personal navigation applications and or off board information services applications. Applications of software may further include a human machine interface module a voice user interface module a tactile user interface module and a graphical user interface module . Modules may generally be configured to allow a user of the system to interact with any other applications and or hardware by providing menu items prompting input logic and or any other user interface features.

Referring further to an operating system such as a real time operating system e.g. a real time operating system as provided by QNX may be installed on the in vehicle control system. According to an exemplary embodiment the operating system is near real time or is an operating system classified as real time. According to an exemplary embodiment operating system is an operating system that may be subject to deadlines for critical tasks. Operating system may be a soft real time system a hard real time system an immediate real time system or any other type of real time system. According to various other exemplary embodiments operating system may be any commercially available or proprietary operating system and need not be a real time operating system. System services may include modules or software components such as digital signal processing DSP components E CAN NR components a high availability manager watchdog components power manager components diagnostics manager components a fault logger an audio player e.g. aplay a phonebook component and any other service that may facilitate the activities described in the present application. Voice services may include voice trees vocabularies voice prompt components a voice tag database a phonetic base form generator speech recognition hardware an audio conditioner and or any other components that may facilitate voice services. Graphics display components may include a content manager a graphics rendering engine e.g. a 2D or 3D rendering engine a window manager and or any other components that may facilitate controlled graphics display. A remote device transport RDT subsystem may include any number of components for facilitating connections to remote sources or devices e.g. a Bluetooth software component a USB software component a serial media player software component etc. .

Referring now to a block diagram of a software architecture such as system shown in for a vehicle control system according to an exemplary embodiment. System is shown to include a persistence subsystem . Persistence subsystem may be a software module configured to ensure that certain data remains persistent and or highly available to the operating system or other software hardware. If operating system is a real time operating system persistence subsystem may assist operating system in tracking and or retaining high priority data. Persistence subsystem may maintains high priority data in highly available memory in a way that the data will not be purged from the highly available memory until the data is no longer needed. Persistence subsystem may be configured to prioritize data tasks memory threads processes and or other important data structures or activities.

Wired device transport is a module configured to communicate and control connected portable wired devices. For example wired device transport may communicate and control one or more physically connected devices. For example the physically connected device s may include a USB mass storage device a USB PlaysForSure media player an iPod media a media player of any other type a device wired to the system via an auxiliary audio jack and or any other wired device. Wired device transport may include separate software modules to manage the different device types. Wired device transport and or its software modules may be configured according to a common application programming interface API .

System is shown to include car interface subsystem . Car interface subsystem is generally configured to provide a software interface and functions for communicating with the vehicle data bus and or vehicle components thereof. System is further shown to include tactile input manager . Tactile input manager is generally configured to provide a software interface and a set of functions for communicating with tactile devices of the vehicle control system.

Referring still to device services subsystem is shown to include a music manager. The music manager may be a music service that is used to service music devices such as file based music devices wired media players and or Bluetooth devices.

Referring further to a connection priority manager is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Connection priority manager is a software module configured to manage the priority of connected devices for accomplishing key features. Connection priority manager may maintain a list of one or more key features that may utilize a source e.g. audio source video source navigation source data source network source phone source etc. . Connection priority manager may provide the user via a GUI TUI and or VUI menus for reconfiguring the priority for each feature and or source type. Using the input received from these menu s connection priority manager may connect to and or utilize a device of the highest priority when the feature is requested to be used. By way of example if a user or user s family owns multiple phones that may be used for data or network services connection priority manager may provide a list of phones in order of priority. The user may reorder the list. If multiple phones are available in the vehicle the connection priority manager may access the reordered list to determine which to use for a data connection activity. Similar activities and or menus may be provided for media devices navigation devices and or any other device type.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system for providing control to the systems and or software shown in is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. System may generally be configured to provide a unified known interface for applications residing in the application layer and hardware devices connected to the audio video AV router . According to an exemplary embodiment system may provide an alternative to the music manager shown in device services subsystem .

System is shown to include an audio visual manager . Manager is configured to provide a common manager and application programming interface API to application layer for the transports and controllers in lower layers. Manager advantageously provides a common interface to the application layer so that application developers need not be concerned with handling one device differently from another. The API of manager is used to communicate with all device types. The API may receive calls from applications and interface with the appropriate device controller or transport so that the unique protocol and or state of that controller or transport can be managed. Manager is configured to communicate with a remote device transport a wired device transport WDT and a disc drive controller DDC for controlling a disc related device e.g. a DVD drive . According to an exemplary embodiment manager includes an API server and or functions while the application layer includes a corresponding API client. The application layer utilizes the manager API to communicate and control wired and unwired media devices. According to various exemplary embodiments the application layer has a direct connection to manager to control the AV router.

Referring further to AV router is configured to provide the interface between the multiple AV inputs and multiple outputs of the system. The AV router may be configured to receive independent control signals from the application layer so that input selection output selection and or audio level can be adjusted independently of activities of the audio visual manager. AV router advantageously allows users to connect a variety of audio and or video sources to the system. To initiate the functional input connection of devices to AV router WDT and or DDC control the creation and setup of an input channel. WDT and or DDC may also send control signals to AV router to set the audio input level. Application layer is configured to manage which AV router input is routed to which AV router output. Application layer is also responsible for adjusting the AV router s audio output level. According to an exemplary embodiment all audio including phone and prompts are routed through AV router .

Referring still to database system may be communicably coupled to manager . Database system is generally configured to store metadata and lists relating to music video and image files. According to an exemplary embodiment database system cross references the metadata to a particular device using an index number to a device signature stored in a device manager database. According to an exemplary embodiment the metadata stored for audio and or video files is album artist song title genre and track number. Any number of additional metadata components may also be included. According to an exemplary embodiment database system is an SQL database with all device metadata stored in a single database file or in separate files for each device. The database file or files are configured to be placed and or accessed in RAM at runtime and will be stored or updated in to flash memory whenever a device catalog is changed or deleted. According to an exemplary embodiment database system is responsible for building managing and storage of temporary browse shuffle and catalog based lists e.g. an aggregated catalog . According to various exemplary embodiments anytime a list is generated a key will be generated which will contain the necessary information to generate a particular list. This method permits only the key to be stored in the database system during a power cycle saving on database size. In such embodiments the lists will be stored in a RAM based database file and will not be written to flash. Using the keys the database system may regenerate lists each time power is cycled back on.

Referring yet further to disk drive controller DDC is a software module that is configured to communicate with and control the disk drive. According to an exemplary embodiment when the disk drive controller detects that a file based disk CD ROM or DVD ROM has been inserted DDC will send a notification to the wired device transport WDT . The wired device transport may then be configured to mount the disc as a file system and manage cataloging and or playback of the disc contents as necessary. According to various other embodiments audio visual manager or an application conducts the cataloging and or playback after triggering by WDT and or DDC .

It is important to note that the varying input devices of the in vehicle control system e.g. VUI GUI TUI etc. may each be used to provide user input commands to and or to provide human machine interface interaction with varying applications of the system. The unified application programming interface and or command control interface provided by system may advantageously facilitate a unified look and feel for various applications of the in vehicle control system e.g. a text messaging application a hands free application a phone application a digital radio application etc. .

The vehicle control systems shown in previous FIGS. and described in the present application may be configured to connect to media devices such as an iPod device sold by Apple Inc. Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment when a user connects a media device to the vehicle control system step the system will attempt to determine the device s interface capabilities step . This step may include querying the device for a feature set querying the device for a version number or identifier and using a look up table in memory of the vehicle control system or any other activity that may result in the vehicle control system knowing which features the media device includes or does not include. The system may also attempt to check for compatible firmware or application software of the media device step . If the firmware and or application software is out of date the vehicle control system may be configured to check the Internet or another remote source for a new or compatible version step . Checking the Internet or another remote source for firmware may include forming a connection using one or more communication devices of the vehicle control system. If new firmware is available the system may be configured to download the new firmware and to provide the firmware to the media device step . According to various other embodiments the system informs the user that an update is available but does not attempt to download the new firmware and update the media device without user confirmation. If new firmware is not available or if the user does not update the firmware the user will be prompted to select another configuration option step . Alternatively the system may select a compatible configuration option and inform the user that the user experience may be slightly degraded until the user updates his or her media device.

Some media devices such as the iPod device sold by Apple Inc. require authentication before some features such as digital audio and or a high degree of control are allowed to be provided from the iPod to another device such as the vehicle control system. According to an exemplary embodiment a memory device of the vehicle control system includes computer code for permitting playback from a media device during that media device s authentication activities. If the authentication process is successful the playback will continue and the user will not be aware that this background authentication occurred. If the authentication fails the user will only be permitted playback for a certain amount of time. Once the time expires the user will be notified that the authentication process failed. According to an exemplary embodiment the authentication occurs in the background with respect to a primary task e.g. audio playback media cataloging etc. relating to the media player. A software module of the control system may accomplish this background authentication utilizing a number of different methods. For example the primary task and the authentication may occur in parallel if the system is capable of conducting parallel processing. By way of further example the system may be configured to use available or null CPU time to conduct the authentication in a way such that a user will not notice an interruption of the primary task. According to yet other exemplary embodiments the primary task may be provided with a higher priority and the authentication with a lower priority.

Referring to according to an exemplary embodiment when a device containing media files is connected step to the vehicle control system the user will be provided with the option to operate in one of three modes step uncataloged mode browse mode or cataloged mode. In uncataloged mode the user will be permitted to navigate and or play files sequentially using a limited command set such as play pause stop next and previous. In browse mode the user may be provided a file structure view e.g a file tree view a file system directory view a file list a display of file icons etc. interface allowing the user to browse the file structure of the media device for files to access. Metadata may be used to describe the files and or the file names may be displayed or read to the user. In cataloged mode the user will have the option to catalog the device into lists e.g. lists such as genre artist album song title user playlist etc. .

In cataloged mode according to an exemplary embodiment once a device is connected the vehicle control system may extract the metadata for the media files on the device step . While catalog information is being extracted the user will be able to play contents from the device step . In other words the vehicle control system will be able to simultaneously catalog metadata files and to play an audio file. The cataloging my occur in the background during the playback.

Metadata for media files may be formatted according to different versions file formats and or file types. For example MP3 media files may include a metadata container according to ID3 version 1 or ID3 version 2. Other types of media files may include other types of metadata containers. During the step of extracting metadata for media files on the device to support the cataloging mode the system may search for a preferred metadata type and version. If the preferred metadata type and or version is found the data is used to populate the catalog. If the metadata type and or version is not found an alternative type and or version is searched. In this manner a catalog may be built even if the media files are of different types and include varying metadata types versions. According to an exemplary embodiment the order of which type and or version of metadata file to prefer is user configurable.

For devices that are cataloged the vehicle control system may be configured to aggregate the data from all connected devices step and to present the user with a complete list step of songs albums artists genre or playlists. The vehicle control system may be configured to allow the user to turn the device aggregation feature off and or on.

Referring further to step multiple devices could be connected to the the vehicle control system simultaneously. After viewing the complete list of songs albums artists etc. available from the multiple connected devices the vehicle control system will allow the user to make a selection for playback transfer editing or some other activity. According to an exemplary embodiment step includes determining which of the multiple devices contains the selection and accessing the appropriate device to conduct the activity. The determination process may include accessing an identifier look up table database or another information structure associating displayed media files with source devices.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the Figures and described herein are presently preferred it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims. The order or sequence of any processes or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments.

Describing the invention with Figures should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations that may be present in the Figures. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processors or by a special purpose computer processor for an appropriate vehicle system incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

It is important to note that the construction and arrangement of the control system as shown in the various exemplary embodiments is illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments of the present inventions have been described in detail in this disclosure those skilled in the art who review this disclosure will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the subject matter recited in the claims. For example elements shown as integrally formed may be constructed of multiple parts or elements e.g. control system memory device communications device data processing device remote source remote server etc. the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied e.g. the components of control system etc. and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied e.g. communications device memory device the components of control system etc. . Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. In the claims any means plus function clause is intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present inventions as expressed in the appended claims.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either wired wireless physically connected or a combination of wired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

It should be noted that although the diagrams herein may show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

