---

title: Universal vehicle door armrest
abstract: A customizable armrest includes a cushioning pad and a rigid, single support unit being configured to couple the cushioning pad. The rigid, single support unit includes an armrest retention protrusion pivotably coupled to the single support unit. Furthermore, the armrest retention protrusion is configured to be mounted in a window orifice of a vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07661762&OS=07661762&RS=07661762
owner: 
number: 07661762
owner_city: Park City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080201
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 898 804 filed Feb. 1 2007 titled Vehicle Door Elbow Arm Rest ARM RESTLER which provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

The present system and method relate to an arm resting device for use on a vehicle door. More specifically the present exemplary system and method relate to a universal armrest configured to be customized for selective placement in a door of any vehicle.

Many drivers of automobiles tend to place their elbow or arm on the door of their vehicle while operating the vehicle. When asked many drivers who have this tendency agree that after a short time that their elbow and or arm becomes sore or fatigued from resting on the hard plastic that usually makes up the vehicle door.

A number of systems have been developed to increase the comfort for vehicle operators that tend to place their elbow or arm on the door of their vehicle. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 320 401 discloses a vehicle arm rest that latches to the underside of a door panel between the window and panel weather stripping by use of a strap with projections which leans against the interior of a door panel. Other similar devices have been proposed with varied attaching methods. There are apparent drawbacks to these types of devices. Particularly the majority of vehicles are excluded from the use of such devices. Traditional designs do not accommodate a variety of vehicles because they fail to provide means to properly flush or level their frames against the interior door window panel of the vehicles due to the vast variation in contours thickness and geometric shapes of the panels.

An armrest includes a cushioning pad a rigid single support unit that is configured to support the cushioning pad and wherein the rigid single support unit includes a mounting protrusion pivotably coupled thereto wherein the mounting protrusion includes a plurality of trim reliefs and wherein the mounting protrusion is configured to be mounted in a window orifice of a vehicle.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

The present exemplary system and method provides a universal armrest that is customizable for selective placement of the armrest in a door of any vehicle. Particularly according to one exemplary embodiment the present exemplary armrest system and method includes a single formed frame or structure configured to securely hold a comfortably soft rest member. Additionally according to one exemplary embodiment the single formed support frame includes one or more sizing members configured to facilitate a user in trimming the support frame for use with various vehicles. Further details of the present exemplary system and method will be provided below.

As used in the present exemplary specification and in the appended claims the term relief shall be interpreted broadly as including any indentation perforation guide frangible connection or other feature configured to facilitate the trimming of an armrest retention member.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present system and method for producing a novel armrest system. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present method may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearance of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

According to the exemplary embodiment illustrated in the exemplary pad retention member comprises a generally rectangular shape including a pad reception base and a number of vertical walls. As illustrated the exemplary pad retention member includes at least one pad interference member integrally formed in the wall of the pad retention member such that it overhangs a portion of the interior space defined by the pad retention member. Consequently a recessed retention orifice is formed within the pad retention member such that an armrest retention member inserted into the pad retention member may rest upon the pad reception base and be secured within the recessed retention orifice under the pad interference member .

Additionally as illustrated in the armrest retention member is secured to the pad retention member by the hinge member . According to one exemplary embodiment the hinge member is configured to allow the armrest retention member to rotate about the pad retention member . Accordingly the pad retention member and consequently the comfort pad may be easily positioned as desired by a user while the armrest retention member maintains a substantially vertical orientation within the door panel . According to one exemplary embodiment the hinge member is formed by molding or otherwise forming a strip of material that has a thinner cross section than the remainder of the pad retention member . Accordingly if a bend results from the imparting of a force upon the pad retention member the bend will occur within the hinge member . Additionally the relative thickness may be adjusted to vary the force used to positionally orient the armrest retention member with respect to the pad retention member . While the hinge member has been described as a reduced thickness in the material forming the pad retention member any number of alternative configurations or systems may be used including but in no way limited to the removal of material the use of bands separate hinged members pins compliant material configurations and the like. Indeed the coupling of the pad retention member to the armrest retention member with the hinge member allows for the comfort pad to be positionally secured without detachment adapting to any vehicle door angle while securing the present exemplary system onto the vehicle door .

Referring now to the exemplary comfort pad as illustrated in and a substantially soft material forms the comfort pad. Particularly according to one exemplary embodiment the comfort pad may be formed of any number of foams both open cell and closed cell gels encased liquids beads particles powders and the like including combinations thereof. Additionally any number of the afore mentioned comfort materials may be enclosed in an encapsulating membrane or material. Particularly according to one exemplary embodiment a spandex or lycra neoprene or gel coating may be formed on a desired material to form the exemplary comfort pad . As illustrated in the exemplary comfort pad may include one or more pad cut outs selectively positioned and sized to mate with the previously described recessed retention orifices when inserted onto the pad reception base . While a particular comfort pad configuration has been described with particularity herein any number of geometries or configurations may be used with the present exemplary system and method.

Turning now to an additional feature of the exemplary armrest retention member is illustrated. Particularly as illustrated in and the under portion of the exemplary armrest retention member may include a plurality of reliefs configured to aid in the customization of the present exemplary armrest configuration. According to one exemplary embodiment the illustrated reliefs function as trim lines or guides for selective removal of portions of the exemplary armrest retention member in order to facilitate insertion of the present exemplary armrest in vehicle door configurations where there is limited space within the door panel . According to one exemplary embodiment a user may be guided in cutting portions of the exemplary armrest retention member by following the reliefs . In other exemplary embodiments the reliefs include perforations or another removal of material configured to allow for the removal of selective portions of the armrest retention member by hand. Alternative relief configurations may facilitate removal by cutting tools such as knives and or scissors.

Turning now specifically to a number of pad access orifices are illustrated on the under side of the exemplary pad retention member . While merely optional to the present exemplary system and method the pad access orifices illustrated in facilitate access to the comfort pad . Particularly during assembly of the present exemplary armrest configuration the pad access orifices allow for manipulation and secure insertion of the comfort pad into the pad retention member .

According to one exemplary embodiment the present exemplary system and method is formed by first forming the pad retention member . As mentioned previously the pad retention member may be formed by a molding process such as injection molding. Once the pad retention member is formed the comfort pad is inserted into the pad retention member. According to one exemplary embodiment the comfort pad provides a comfortable surface for the operator of a vehicle to rest his her elbow or arm on the vehicle door . According to one exemplary embodiment the comfort pad is secured in the pad retention member by an interference fit where friction and interference with the pad interference members maintains the comfort pad within the pad retention member . Alternatively or in addition to the above mentioned interference fit the comfort pad may be secured in the pad retention member by an adhesive a mechanical fastener and the like.

In conclusion the present exemplary system and method provides a universal armrest that is customizable for selective placement of the armrest in a door of any vehicle. Particularly according to one exemplary embodiment detailed above the present exemplary armrest system and method includes a single formed frame or structure configured to securely hold a comfortably soft rest member. Additionally according to one exemplary embodiment the single formed support frame includes one or more sizing members configured to facilitate a user in trimming the support frame for use with various vehicles.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe exemplary embodiments of the present system and method. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the system and method to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the system and method be defined by the following claims.

