---

title: Adaptive mobile device navigation
abstract: Adaptive mobile device navigation system, methods, and apparatus provide location information for a mobile device performing location estimation using dead reckoning. Multiple estimation modes can be selected including a mode for restricting measured movements to surrounding streets. Updated location fixes can be obtained through turn comparison with surrounding map information and user feedback. User feedback prompts can include photographs having geographic tag information corresponding to locations near an estimated location of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204684&OS=08204684&RS=08204684
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08204684
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080108
---
This application claims a benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 946 817 which provisional application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The role of traditional printed maps is being supplanted by modern devices capable of rendering dynamic map displays. Devices that include mapping or navigation applications provide information regarding an area selected by a user by recalling map data from local memory or networked services.

Mapping devices often include the ability to provide directions from a point of origin to a destination. When coupled with any of a number of positioning technologies a mapping device can display a current position on a map as well as deliver navigation instructions based on the current position to route a user to a desired destination. Positioning technologies include satellite positioning systems such as GPS information from nearby cellular base stations and information from other transmitters such as such as Wi Fi networks.

Not all mobile mapping devices include the necessary hardware and software to receive positioning information. In addition due to interfering factors of the environment in which a mobile device is being operated the mobile device may not be able to receive positioning information even if it is equipped to do so.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for adaptive mobile device navigation. In one implementation a device position is stored in memory. Sensor data is received from a motion sensor measuring movement of the device. The sensor data is compared to map data corresponding to the device location. An estimated current device location is determined. The determination is based at least in part on the device position received sensor data and an interpretation of the received sensor data as corresponding to movement along at least one pathway defined by the map data.

In an implementation the pathway can be a sidewalk or a street. The motion sensor can be one or a combination of an accelerometer a compass and or a gyroscope.

In an implementation a device position is stored in memory. Sensor data is received from at least one motion sensor measuring movement of the device. An estimated current device location is determined. The determination is based at least in part on the device location and the received sensor data. The sensor data is compared to map data corresponding to the stored location. Feedback is requested regarding the comparison. In an implementation a second device position established by a response to the feedback is stored in memory.

In an implementation the prompt includes a photograph. The photograph can be identified from a database of photographs where the photograph includes geographical tagging information corresponding to a location that is within a threshold distance of the estimated current device location.

In an implementation a mobile device location is determined. Sensor data is received that is related to movement of the mobile device. An estimated mobile device location is determined based on the device location and the sensor data. The estimated device location is compared to map data and the estimated device location is verified based on the comparison.

Instructions for performing the aforementioned methods may be included in a computer program product configured for execution by one or more processors.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations one or more of an accelerometer a compass and a gyroscope can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device .

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

The mobile device can also communicate with one or more GPS Satellite s to enable circuitry and sensors e.g. a GPS receiver on the mobile device to support a location determining capability.

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In an implementation the mobile device includes an integrated GPS receiver. Alternatively or in addition the mobile device can accept a GPS receiver as an accessory. Communication with an accessory GPS receiver can occur via a wired connection such as a USB connection a secure digital interface or other wired connection types. Communication can also occur via a wireless connection such as IEEE 802.x Bluetooth or other wireless communication formats. The location of the mobile device can be measured using information received from orbiting GPS satellites using the GPS receiver. The present latitude and longitude of the mobile device can be determined and shown on the display with a map of the surrounding area. For example selection of the map object can present a user with a map showing the user s current location and a menu of options for manipulating the map using navigation features of the device . Other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids etc. can also be used.

In an implementation past locations of the device are stored in memory so that a location history or a traveled path can be displayed. These past routes can be bookmarked or otherwise categorized for easy recall by the user.

As described above environmental factors can prevent the location of the device being determined. For example GPS reception is often not possible unless a line of sight can be established between the GPS receiver and the number of satellites needed to compute the receiver s location. Likewise other location systems can also experience reception degradation e.g. radio frequency interference or multiple time delayed versions of a transmission received due to reflections off of surrounding structures.

In an implementation the device includes one or more of an accelerometer a magnetic compass and or a gyroscope . The accelerometer compass and or gyroscope can be used alone or in combination to measure movements of the device . Additional sensors can be located external to the device on the person of the user. For example any some or all of an accelerometer a compass a gyroscope and an impact sensor can be located on or in the user s footwear. An impact sensor detects footwear contact with the ground facilitating the measurement of a number of steps. A distance traveled can be estimated using the product of the average length of a user s stride and a number of steps taken. Alternatively contact with the ground during walking can be measured using an accelerometer that detects the change in velocity of a shoe as it contacts the ground. The sensors can be located on or in one or both of the user s shoes. The external sensors can send information to the device via a wireless link. The length of the user s stride can be set and stored in device memory.

Sensor data from accelerometers a compass gyroscopes and impact sensors can be used alone or in combination to for example measure the movement of the device from a point of origin or known location a fix to determine the device s location relative to the fix. Location measurement techniques of this type are generally referred to as dead reckoning. Dead reckoning can be used in conjunction with other location measurement techniques such as GPS or user input and used in cases where no satellite or terrestrial positioning signal information is available whether the unavailability is due to interference in the operating environment or the lack or reception capabilities in the device . In an implementation the device is configured to switch into a dead reckoning positioning mode upon another positioning mode becoming unavailable.

Dead reckoning position measurement is error prone and small errors in measuring a turn for example can lead to large errors later if a new fix is not obtained before a lengthy distance is traversed. Frequently updated fixes improve the accuracy of a location shown for example on a moving map display of the mobile device measured using dead reckoning.

The automatically switch to walking mode upon step detection button is shown as enabled. In an implementation enabling this feature causes the mobile device to switch to a walking mode of dead reckoning position measurement upon an accelerometer in the mobile device or in communication with the mobile device e.g. a footwear impact sensor detecting walking motions such as for example periodic accelerations indicative of steps being taken by a user.

The lock on street feature is shown as enabled for both a walking mode and a vehicle mode . In an implementation a dead reckoning mode of operation in the lock on street setting interprets data from any of the accelerometer compass and gyroscope such that the measured movements of the device are presumed to be directed along streets of a map of the surrounding area.

The lock on street mode can for example be utilized to provide implicit fixes and resolve errors by adjusting a currently estimated position based on a comparison to map data. For example the mobile device by use of the accelerometer compass user input and or gyroscope may have a currently estimated location of a mobile device as 25 feet north of an intersection. If however the user of the mobile device is actually at the intersection and turns west at the intersection and walks west in excess of a threshold distance e.g. 10 feet then the mobile device may adjust the current estimated location to the position on the map that corresponds to 10 feet west of the intersection.

The lock on street mode can for example apply the implicit fixes in a bounded area e.g. the implicit fix may not be applied if a user is walking in an open area such as a park in which there are no boundaries e.g. building walls to impede the user s path. A more detailed explanation of the lock on street mode is shown and described with respect to .

The request user feedback button is shown in an enabled state indicating the mobile device is in a user feedback fix mode. The frequency setting for the user feedback fix mode is set to 10 minutes. Touches of the amount button can cycle through a range of options for example 1 2 5 10 15 and 20. The units button can cycle through a range of options for example minutes feet meters kilometers and miles. The provide contextual photos mode button is shown as enabled. When in the user feedback mode the mobile device can receive periodic user feedback to adjust an estimated current location. For example in the mode setting shown in a user may be prompted to verify a current position every 10 minutes. To assist the user in verifying the current positions a contextual photo e.g. a photograph of a nearby landmark can be provided. In some implementations the user can manually enter his or her current location e.g. latitude and longitude and or respond to prompts as described in reference to .

In an implementation a vehicle dead reckoning mode uses an accelerometer reading to determine how the device is positioned relative to the earth s gravity. That is the accelerometer is used to detect which direction is down relative to the positioning of the device. This axis changes and measurements are updated if the device is reoriented in the vehicle. In the vehicle mode sudden accelerations in a positive or negative direction along the axis of the earth s gravity are given a reduced importance in the dead reckoning position measurement calculation being utilized. Accelerations along this axis are discounted as they are likely caused by undulations of a traveling surface and reactions thereto by a vehicle suspension system. Accelerations along the axes perpendicular to the detected gravity axis are given enhanced weight in the vehicle mode as it is primarily these accelerations that contribute to displacement of the vehicle from a known fix to a second position to be measured via dead reckoning and displayed on a map. In an implementation accelerations along the axes perpendicular to the axis of gravity are compared with rotations detected by the gyroscope to determine a change of direction. In an implementation accelerations along the axes perpendicular to the axis of gravity are compared with rotations detected by the magnetic compass to determine a change of direction.

In an implementation a walking dead reckoning mode of position measurement detects an axis of periodic sudden accelerations using the accelerometer and counts the periodic accelerations as steps of the user. This axis changes and measurements are updated if the device is reoriented by a user while walking. In an implementation the device is configured to switch to a walking mode of dead reckoning position measurement upon the detection of periodic accelerations. In an implementation steps are counted by contact indications detected by impact sensors of footwear of the user. If only one shoe has an impact sensor the number of impacts can be doubled to arrive at a step count. A pedometer function can calculate the product of the user s average stride and the step count to determine a distance traversed. Accelerations in axes perpendicular to the axis of periodic acceleration are measured to determine changes in direction. In an implementation accelerations in axes perpendicular to the axis of periodic acceleration are compared with rotations detected by the gyroscope to determine a change of direction. In an implementation accelerations in axes perpendicular to the axis of periodic acceleration are compared with rotations detected by the magnetic compass to determine a change of direction. In an implementation the walking mode combines pedometer functions with compass measurements without use of accelerometer or gyroscope data.

In the two examples shown the sensor measurements observed by the device are the same but the interpretation of the data is different. In the case of the path represented by the line the dead reckoning calculation did not lock the movements of the device to the streets of the map. In the case of the measured path represented by line the device interpreted the sensor data in accordance with the lock on street setting to keep the movement confined to the streets of a map surrounding the fix represented by the origin . The lock on street mode can thus provide a more accurate estimate of a user s location if the user restricts her movement to streets and sidewalks along those streets.

Upon the detection of a turn meeting a threshold such as a minimum angle of turn from a former direction of travel map data of the area surrounding the current estimated location is checked for turns within a threshold distance of the estimated location . For example upon a processor of the mobile device detecting a turn in sensor data map data stored in local memory or provided by a networked service can be searched for the existence of such a turn at a candidate location within a threshold distance.

If a turn is found within the threshold distance the map data is checked to determine if the turn of the map has an angle within a threshold number of degrees of the angle of the detected turn in the direction of the detected turn . If a turn is found in the map data that meets these criteria the estimated location of the device is changed to the location of the turn on the map . The turn location is used as an updated fix for dead reckoning measurements made following the detected turn . For example the last known location of a mobile device can be updated to the turn location and used in subsequent dead reckoning location estimates.

In an implementation an updated fix for dead reckoning position measurement is obtained by gathering input from a user during a journey. In an implementation input is gathered by prompting the user to answer a map related query. Prompts can occur at periodic intervals of time distance or upon the detection of movement meeting threshold criteria. Prompts can be accompanied by an audible or vibrating alert from the device . is a block diagram of an example user feedback prompt of the mobile device of . A feedback prompt includes a question Did you just turn left on Main Street This prompt can be made for example on a display of a mobile device accompanied by an alert to indicate the existence of the prompt to a user. If an affirmative answer is given by a user touching YES button the intersection of Main Street and the last road the user was traveling on is used as an updated fix for estimating the location of the device using dead reckoning. A user can give a negative answer by touching NO button .

 Set New Position button is also shown in . In an implementation a user press of button can cause the example screen of to be displayed. is a block diagram of an example screen for accepting an updated current location from a user on the mobile device of . Button prompts the user to adjust the map display through zooming and panning controls for example so that the user s current location and that of the mobile device is shown. The button further instructs the user to double tap on the user s current location. Upon the user double tapping for example the intersection of 1Ave. and Main Street this location is used as an updated fix for use in dead reckoning position estimation for later detected movements. In some implementations the user can enter their current location using a virtual keyboard or other input mechanism.

In an implementation the device displays a photo of an object or scene that should be viewable from the estimated current location of the device and in some implementations queries the user as to whether the actual object or scene depicted can be seen by the user at her present location. is a block diagram of an example user feedback prompt including a photograph on the mobile device of . In an implementation the device displays a photo of an object or scene that should be viewable from the estimated location of the mobile device and queries the user as to whether the scene is viewable from the user s current location. A dialog box includes the question Can you see this scene A user touch of the Fullscreen button causes the photo to be displayed in a larger format. The user can touch Yes button or No button to provide the requested information. An affirmative answer causes the location of the photo to be used as an updated fix.

Photos can be selected for display on the mobile device by searching a database of geo tagged photos. Geo tagged photos are photos which have information saved along with the photo that indicates the location at which the photo was taken. A photo is selected for display if the photo matches the estimated location of the device within a threshold distance. Photos can transmitted from a remote location to the device via a network connection for example a cellular IEEE 802.x or other wireless connection. In an embodiment photo timestamps are checked to provide photos taken at a similar time of day as the time of display on the device so that for example a photo of a scene of an area at night is provided on the device when the device is being used at night. In an implementation photos having a shorter focal length wider angle recorded in the photo s EXIF exchangeable image file format information are given priority for display over photos with a longer focal length telephoto recorded in the EXIF information to provide a wider field of view to the user.

The estimated device location is compared to map data . For example one or more characteristics of the received sensor data can be compared to one or more characteristics of the map data to identify a candidate location. In an implementation the candidate location is turn in a pathway defined by the map data. In an implementation the comparison is a comparison of one or more characteristics of a detected turn with one or more turn characteristics of the map data. In an implementation the comparison is a request for user feedback regarding the candidate location. The estimated device location is verified based on the comparison . The estimated device location can be verified for example if one or more characteristics of received sensor data are consistent with one or more characteristics of the candidate location. In an implementation the estimated device location is verified by a response to a feedback request.

The apparatus methods flow diagrams and structure block diagrams described in this patent document can be implemented in computer processing systems including program code comprising program instructions that are executable by the computer processing system. Other implementations can also be used. Additionally the flow diagrams and structure block diagrams described in this patent document which describe particular methods and or corresponding acts in support of steps and corresponding functions in support of disclosed structural means can also be utilized to implement corresponding software structures and algorithms and equivalents thereof.

The foregoing descriptions of implementations of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Rather it should be appreciated that many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

