---

title: Email confirmation page for social network notifications
abstract: A communication confirmation message provides social networking events in combination with information regarding addresses to a member. The message can be used to suggest additional social network friends to members of a social network. The communication confirmation message is utilized to provide additional information on the social network member's friends, information from third party social networks, and recommendations to add individuals or second parties with whom the social network member communicates as friends.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949343&OS=08949343&RS=08949343
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08949343
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
Electronic social networking communication is a popular way for individuals to communicate with one another. Social net grouping web sites allow users to connect for various reasons such as romantic involvement friendship professional connections and common interests. Electronic social networking systems are dependent upon users connecting to and identifying other individuals within the social network as friends those individual with whom they are willing to share greater access to personal information than non friends.

Most social networking systems include mechanisms to increase a member s friends in the network. These systems may for example identify friends of friends or users which are connected to one s own friends within the social network. The more friends one has within the social network the more powerful the social network becomes.

Generally some small portion of the user interface of the social network includes an indicator of the network friend suggestions.

A communication confirmation message is used to provide social networking events in combination with information regarding addresses to a member and suggest additional social network friends to members of a social network. A communication confirmation message is utilized to provide additional information on the social network member s friends information from third party social networks and recommendations to add individuals or second parties with whom the social network member communicates as friends.

In one embodiment the technology includes receiving input to send an email communication from the member determining one or more addressees in the email communication and determining the relationship of the addressees to the member. Once the relationship is determined a sent mail confirmation interface is displayed which includes status event information regarding the one or more addressees in combination with social networking events for friends of the member.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the Background.

Technology is presented for using a sent email confirmation page to suggest additional social network friends to members of a social network. A sent mail confirmation screen indicates that a composed message was in fact sent to the destination address or addresses and generally indicates the addressees to whom the information was forwarded. In accordance with the present technology the sent mail confirmation screen is utilized to provide social networking events in combination with information regarding addresses to a member. This information can include without limitation information on the social network member s friends information from third party social networks and recommendations to add individuals or second parties with whom the social network member communicates. Communication is performed using communications services provided by a service provider who also maintains the social network. While the technology will be described in the context of an email confirmation page it will be understood that the technology may be utilized in other forms of communication ending events. For example a message may be automatically generated and forwarded to a member at the end of an IM conversation with another user.

Optionally at step a members communication activity is monitored. In one aspect the monitoring is used to determine information to present to a user at the end of the communication event. In one embodiment the event is an email message and the end of the communication event is a sent email confirmation page. At step email activity can also be monitored to aid in determining whether to suggest another party as a friend. A service provider offering both a social networking service and communication services has the ability to leverage the communication services for the benefit of the social networking service.

At step one or more algorithms may be used to determine whether other parties in the communication should be recommended to the user as a friend. Such algorithms may include identifying friends of friends or using the activity monitoring resulting from step . At the end of the communication at step a message is displayed to the user with the friend suggestions friend social network news or other messages concerning the parties in the communication with the member. One advantage of using the activity monitoring of step the service provider can determine whether to recommend a social relationship based on communication activities. In one example email communication by social network participants can be monitored and used to suggest friend relationships based on frequency and type of activity. If the system determines that the activity merits recommendation as a friend then the system can recommend friends based on communication activity at step .

As discussed below in the sent mail confirmation interface a multitude of information can be provided regarding friends and non friends of the social network member. Because the service provider provides both the social network service and the communications service activities of the member in both services can be leveraged off each other.

The step of monitoring communication activity may be comprised of a series of sub steps as illustrated in . In step is broken down into the steps of monitoring a communication event between a member and an addressee or another user and for each communication event so monitored at step extracting contact information from the event at step and recording communication event information at step . The communication event at step may generally comprise an e mail communication between a social network member and another user or it can comprise another communication event such as an instant message or social network sharing event. At step contact information may be extracted from the communication event. In an e mail message this may include retrieving the addressee information or other information in the To cc or bcc fields. This may also include extracting content information from information within the text or message field of an e mail message and may include determining the type of communication between the individuals. At step a determination may be made as to whether or not to recommend a social relationship based on the communication activity between members. At step at the end of an event a suggestion to add a social member may be provided within a social network information feed in a sent mail confirmation screen.

The social networking service provided by the web service may include a web blogging service a social bookmarking service a photo sharing service and a news service . The blog service allows users to write personal and social commentary which may be presented to both friends and the public at large. A social bookmarking service allows users to share an interesting web link that the user thinks friends might find interesting. A photo sharing service allows users to share both public and private photos which have been uploaded to the data store with friends and with public. A news service allows users to post status messages which inform their friends of their current activities and planned activities. Users interact with the web service via computers A or B. Computers A and B communicate with for example a presentation server . The presentation server may in one embodiment comprise a web server which provides one or more pages and or web based applications to a web browser executing a browser process on computer A. Alternatively a dedicated communication service client such as in instant messaging or VOIP client may operate on a computer and communicate with the presentation server or with one of the services provided by the web service directly. Communication with the presentation server may occur via one or more public and private networks such as the Internet.

Also shown as a component of web service is a third party social network service aggregator . A third party service social network service aggregator incorporates information provided by third party social network services . Many social networking services provide application programming interfaces APIs which allow data to be extracted from the social networking service or themselves provide information streams such as for example RSS feeds which allow information to be published from the service and incorporated into other presentation or social networking services. The third party service aggregator can extract information from third party networking services or receive the information feed which may then be presented to the user via the presentation service through the social networking service . This information can also be used by the service provider to in conjunction with friend recommendations as discussed herein.

At step a social network member will forward an e mail to one or more addressees or second parties. The e mail may include for example other e mail addresses a message and activity such as sharing photos sharing links or sharing web logs. The act of communication itself and the sharing activity may be indicative of activities which occur between social network member friends . Once the member forwards an e mail at step a determination is made at step as to whether or not the recipient is already in the member s address book at step . If the address is not in the member s address book at step then a determination is made at step as to whether or not the communication activity is sufficient to merit recommending the addressee for addition to the member s address book. The activity required for recommendation may be as minimal as sending of a single e mail or may require additional communication activity such as the sending of several e mails combined with other social network sharing activities which are extracted from the content of the message. At step if the activity is sufficient to recommend adding the recipient or recipients to a member s address book then a notification will be provided on a send mail confirmation page at step . The notification may include an action link to add the e mail to the user s address book. If the add link is accepted at step then the recipient will be added to the address book at step .

If the add link is not accepted at step or if the activity is insufficient to recommend the recipient for addition to the user s address book then the method will return to step waiting for the next e mail from the member. If an entry is added to the address book a duplicate determination routine will occur. At step a determination will be made as to whether or not an entry exists in the user s address book with a similar name or address to the user just added. If a similar entry exists then at step a contact de duplication routine will be run to determine whether or not two entries are similar enough to merit combining the entries into a single address book entry. At step the method will examine other addresses which are contained in the e mail address in for example the message field to determine whether these addresses parsed from the message are in the member s address book. If the messages are not in the address book then at steps and will be repeated for each address within the address book.

Returning to step if the recipient of the e mail is already in the member s address book then at step a determination will be made as to whether or not the recipient is already a social network friend . If the recipient is not a social network friend then a determination will be made at step as to whether or not the communication activity or some other friend recommendation algorithm merits the recommendation of the addressee as a social network friend. Examples of determining how such communication activity can be derived in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 200 585 entitled LEVERAGING COMMUNICATIONS TO IDENTIFY SOCIAL NETWORK FRIENDS having inventors Jennifer Iting Shen Omar H. Shahine Steven D. Kafka Jennie Park Telehowski Eliot Gillum Sara Liu Yang filed on Aug. 28 2008 and assigned to the assignee of the present application and hereby specifically incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If the communication activity is sufficient to justify recommending the addressee as a social network connection at step then at step an action link and message will be presented to the member on the send mail confirmation page. The action link will include a link which will generate an invitation to the addressee of the message or addressees parsed from the message inviting them to join the social network provided by the service provider. If the member accepts the invitation to invite the addressee or second party at step then the e mail recipient or addressee will receive a connection request via e mail or other communication means at step . If the invitee accepts the invitation request at step the invitee will be added to the social network at step of the social network member.

If the recipient is already a network connection at step then at step the send mail confirmation page will display a rich data feed of information regarding the e mail recipient or the addressee. As discussed below the rich data feed may include all the social network activity of the friends of the member as well as events focused on the party or parties with whom recent communication activity has occurred. Various types of social networking activities include photo sharing web log authoring social bookmarking providing status updates sending group invitations participating in group discussions and other types of activities.

At step a determination is made as to whether or not each activity item in the feed both the internal and external event feed if used merits an action link. The action link is presented on the confirmation page to enable a member action associated with the link. For example if the activity is indicative that the friend has posted a blog entry an action link may allow the member to navigate to the blog via the action link.

If an action link is needed then at step the type of action associate with the link is determined and the action link created. At step Activity in the feed along with associated action links is ordered. The order may be selected for display in any number of various formats. For example one may chose to order friend activities first and non friend activities or suggestions to add friends second. Conversely one may choose to add suggestions to add friends first and activity of social network members and friends second. This is illustrated at respectively. Once the ordering is complete at step then the activity and link options are displayed at step . Examples of this display are shown at .

If a user selects an action link at step then the action is performed and a message associated with the link is displayed at step . As illustrated below messages are associated with each event and displayed on the confirmation page. Prompt or status messages are also associated with the action link. Each prompt or status message may change in line in the confirmation page without re generating the page to indicate selection of the action link.

As illustrated at Shirley and Jane are already indicated as being contacts in the user s address book. At an indication of the users already in the member s address book is provided. User Shirley Jones while in the user s address book is not currently a friend of the user. Hence the message Shirley Jones is a member of the social network is shown along with an invite action link and message invite Shirley Jones as a friend. 

Message set also illustrates a change in the message displayed after an action link is selected. In the example at Jenny Jones Jenny live.com is a member of the social network but the action notification indicates that the invitation has already been sent. This is an example of a message where the member has already clicked the action link and the display has changed to show the member that the invitation has been sent to Jenny to become a social network friend.

The second message concerning Jennie Jones illustrates an example of a message which may result from de duplication . At the message merge with Jennifer Jones and the action link merge contacts are shown. This results from the determination that there is more than one contact with the name Jennifer Jones or a similar e mail address in the user s address book.

Finally as indicated at a news feed of users already in the network is provided. User Steve Jones is indicated already to be a friend but may not be in the user s buddy list for the messenger service provided by the web service provider. Hence a add to messenger action link is provided at . Likewise Steve Jones activity of adding new photos and blog entries are listed as messages along with action links allowing the user to click to see photos or click to read the blog are provided.

Action links and allow the member to add or invite user Joe Smith respectively. Link allows the member to navigate to the photos shared by Steve Jones. Link allows the member to navigate to the blog entry authored by Steve Jones. Link navigates the member to the profile of Laura Jones. Link allows the member to quickly friend a member of the member s address book Steve Lindley who has recently joined the social network.

The examples presented in are illustrative only. Other messages and action links may be presented. Any event in a social network may be presented in the feed in the sent mail confirmation page. While the ordering is illustrated as beginning with users not in the member s address book the ordering of events in the feed may take any form.

In a further example the feed may be used to issue reminders regarding friends. For example if a friend has an upcoming birthday the feed in the sent mail confirmation page may present a reminder and an action link to a purchasing service allowing the member to send a gift to the friend. The feed information regarding reminders may be prioritized by users with whom a communication has just been sent or by other friends in the network.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the technology includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and includes any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The technology is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the technology include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The technology may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The foregoing detailed description of the system has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventive system to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The described embodiments were chosen in order to best explain the principles of the inventive system and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventive system in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that

