---

title: Single event upset hardened static random access memory cell
abstract: A single event upset (SEU) hardened memory cell to be utilized in static random access memories is disclosed. The SEU hardened memory cell includes a first transistor, a second transistor and a first resistor connected between a source of the first transistor and a drain of the second transistor. The SEU hardened memory cell also includes a third transistor, a fourth transistor and a second resistor connected between a source of the third transistor and a drain of the fourth transistor. The first resistor is also connected between a gate of the third transistor and the drain of the second transistor. The second resistor is also connected between a gate of the first transistor and the drain of the fourth transistor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08189367&OS=08189367&RS=08189367
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08189367
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080208
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 to provisional application No. 60 891 246 filed on Feb. 23 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with United States Government support under contract number DTRA01.03.D.0007.0001 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to memory circuits in general and in particular to static random access memory circuits. Still more particularly the present invention relates to single event upset hardened static random access memory cells.

Static random access memories SRAMs that employ conventional six transistor memory cells are commonly utilized in electronic devices for storing information. In certain environments such as satellite orbital space in which the level of radiation is relatively intense SRAMs are more susceptible to single event upsets SEUs or soft errors.

Generally speaking SEUs are caused by electron hole pairs created by and travelling along the path of a single energetic particle as it passes through memory cells such as SRAM cells. A critical charge is the minimum amount of electrical charge required to change the logic state of an SRAM cell. Should the energetic particle generate a critical charge within a storage node of an SRAM cell the logic state of the SRAM cell will be upset.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a single event upset SEU hardened memory cell includes a first transistor a second transistor and a first resistor connected between a source of the first transistor and a drain of the second transistor. The SEU hardened memory cell also includes a third transistor a fourth transistor and a second resistor connected between a source of the third transistor and a drain of the fourth transistor. The first resistor is also connected between a gate of the third transistor and the drain of the second transistor. The second resistor is also connected between a gate of the first transistor and the drain of the fourth transistor.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a single event upset SEU hardened memory cell includes a first inverter and a second inverter connected to each other in a cross coupled manner. The SEU hardened memory cell also includes a first resistor a second resistor and a capacitor. The first resistor is connected between the source of a first transistor and the drain of a second transistor within the first inverter. The second resistor is connected between the source of a first transistor and the drain of a second transistor within the second inverter.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is illustrated a circuit diagram of a static random access memory SRAM cell according to the prior art. As shown an SRAM cell is formed by two cross coupled complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS inverters and . Inverter includes a p channel transistor and an n channel transistor and inverter includes a p channel transistor and an n channel transistor . The gates of transistors and are connected to the drains of transistors and and the gates of transistors and are connected to the drains of transistors and . This arrangement of inverter and inverter is commonly referred to as cross coupled inverters and the two lines connecting the gates and the drains of inverters and are commonly referred to as cross coupling lines. An n channel pass transistor having its gate connected to a wordline WL is coupled between a bitline BL and a node S. Similarly an n channel pass transistor also having its gate connected to wordline WL is coupled between a bitline and a node S. When enabled pass transistors allow data to pass in and out of SRAM cell from bitlines BL and respectively. Pass transistors are enabled by wordline WL which has a state that is a function of the row address within an SRAM.

During operation the voltages of nodes S and S are logical complements of one another due to the cross coupling of inverters and . When wordline WL is energized by the row decoder according to the row address received pass transistors and will be turned on coupling nodes S and S to bit lines BL and respectively. Accordingly when wordline WL is high the state of SRAM cell can establish a differential voltage on BL and .

The logic state of SRAM cell can be changed by a single event upset SEU in many ways. For example if a single energetic particle such as an alpha particle strikes the drain of transistor of inverter electrons will diffuse towards a power supply Vof inverter and holes collected at the drain will change the output voltage of inverter at node S from a logic low to a logic high when transistor is on and transistor is off. However if the alpha particle strikes the drain of transistor of inverter holes will drift towards ground and electrons collected at the drain will change the output voltage of inverter at node S from a logic high to a logic low when transistor is on and transistor is off.

With reference now to there is illustrated a circuit diagram of an SEU hardened SRAM cell in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown an SRAM cell is formed by two cross coupled inverters and . Inverter includes a p channel transistor and an n channel transistor and inverter includes a p channel transistor and an n channel transistor . An n channel pass transistor having its gate connected to a wordline WL is coupled between a bitline BL and a node n. Similarly an n channel pass transistor also having its gate connected to wordline WL is coupled between a bitline and a node n. When enabled pass transistors allow data to pass in and out of SRAM cell from bitlines BL and respectively.

In order to harden SRAM cell from SEUs a resistor Rx is included between transistor and transistor and a resistor Ry is included between transistor and . Specifically resistor Rx is connected between a source of transistor and a drain of transistor within inverter . Similarly resistor Ry is connected between a source of transistor and a drain of transistor within inverter .

Referring now to there is illustrated a circuit diagram of an SEU hardened SRAM cell in accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention. As shown an SRAM cell is similar to SRAM cell from . The difference between SRAM cell and SRAM cell is that SRAM cell includes a capacitor Cm connected between node n and node n.

Capacitor Cm is preferably made of metal insulator metal MIM because it occupies less physical area. However capacitor Cm may be constructed with materials other than aluminum and a dielectric insulator. Other structures that may be used for capacitor Cm include poly poly capacitors trench capacitors etc. In addition capacitor Cm can be physically placed for example above transistors in a vertical dimension in order to share the same silicon footprint with transistors .

MIM capacitor Cm provides positive feedback during an SEU event on a positively biased drain of one of transistors or storing a 1 in SRAM cell . For example when node n is temporarily discharged grounded by an SEU event while a 0 is momentarily coupled to node n reinforcing or maintaining the original state of the latched circuit until recombination occurs and the transient dissipates.

With reference now to there is illustrated a circuit diagram of an SEU hardened SRAM cell in accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention. As shown an SRAM cell is similar to SRAM cell from . The difference between SRAM cell and SRAM cell is that SRAM cell includes two additional capacitors C and C. Preferably capacitor C is connected to node n and capacitor C is connected to node n.

As has been described the present invention provides a SEU hardened memory cell to be utilized in SRAMs. The present invention may be implemented in a variety of apparatuses having an SRAM. For example referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of an apparatus in which an SRAM may be incorporated. As shown the apparatus includes an electronic system coupled to a memory device . Electronic system may be for example a processor a memory controller a chip set or any system that stores data in a memory device such as memory device . Electronic system is coupled to a row decoder and a column decoder of memory device via address lines . Electronic system is also coupled to a control circuit of memory device via control lines . In addition electronic system is coupled to an input output circuit of memory device via input output lines .

Memory device includes a sense amplifier and a memory cell array . Array includes a number of wordlines WL through WL m and a number of bit line pairs BL through BL n and through n . Array is constructed to use a memory cell sensing scheme such that each bit line pair is to be used in reading and writing data into a SRAM cell such as SRAM cell . Memory device is controlled by control circuit . Control circuit is coupled to row decoder column decoder input output circuit and sense amplifier .

Memory device reads and writes data for electronic system . For example in order to read a value from SRAM cell in a read operation electronic system provides the address of SRAM cell to row decoder over address lines . Electronic system also provides control signals to control circuit over control lines . Control circuit provides signals to sense amplifier that causes an equilibrate circuit not shown within sense amplifier to equilibrate the voltages on bit lines BL and . The equilibrate circuit of sense amplifier forces bit lines BL and to a common voltage for example V V. It is noted that the voltage range between the high and low logic levels for sense amplifier differs from that of SRAM cell .

With the charge on bit line pair sense amplifier next detects the logic state of SRAM cell . Column decoder receives the column address of the selected cell from electronic system . Column decoder identifies the appropriate bit line pair for sense amplifier to use in reading the value from SRAM cell . Sense amplifier senses and amplifies the differential voltage across the bit line pair and thus produces high and low logic levels on complementary nodes of sense amplifier that correspond to the states of the sensed bit line pair. These voltage levels are passed to electronic system by input output circuit via input output lines .

In a write operation electronic system provides data to be written to for example SRAM cell over input output lines to input output circuit . Column decoder receives the column address from electronic system via address lines to select the appropriate bit line pair for the selected SRAM cell. Sense amplifier under the control of control circuit forces the bit line pair for SRAM cell to complementary high and low logic levels based on the data to be stored in SRAM cell . Row decoder receives an address from electronic system over address line that indicates the appropriate wordline to activate for this store operation. In this process the high and low logic levels for sense amplifier are translated to appropriate voltage levels for SRAM cell .

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

