---

title: Glacial geomorphologic mapping
abstract: Described herein are implementations of various technologies for a method for mapping glacial geomorphology. A satellite image of an area of interest may be received. A digital elevation model of the area of interest may be received. Plains and ridges may be identified on the digital elevation model. Swamps and forest may be identified on the satellite image. A glaciological map may be generated having glacial features based on the identified plains, ridges, swamps and forest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08280116&OS=08280116&RS=08280116
owner: WesternGeco L.L.C.
number: 08280116
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081108
---
Implementations of various technologies described herein generally relate to methods and systems for glacial geomorphologic mapping.

The following descriptions and examples are not admitted to be prior art by virtue of their inclusion within this section.

Geomorphology is a science of landforms that studies the evolution of the earth s surface and interprets landforms as records of geological history. More specifically glacial geomorphology studies the evolution of the earth s surface as shaped by glaciers. Glacial geomorphology is useful for the exploration of natural resources of the arctic regions. Typically the geomorphologic interpretation of glacial features uses surface geologic mapping validated by satellite imagery.

Moraines are glacial features that may be of particular interest in glacial geomorphology. The term moraine refers to any glacially formed accumulation of unconsolidated glacial debris such as soil and rock. The debris may occur in currently and formerly glaciated regions. This debris may have been plucked off the valley floor or fallen off of valley walls as a glacier advanced. Moraines may be composed of debris ranging in size from a silt like material called glacial flour to large boulders. Moraines may be located on the glacier s surface or deposited where the glacier has melted.

Different types of moraines include lateral moraines ground moraines and terminal moraines. Lateral moraines are parallel ridges of debris deposited along the sides of a glacier. The debris is deposited on top of the glacier by frost shattering of the valley walls and from tributary streams flowing into the valley. The till is carried along the glacial boundary until the glacier melts. Because lateral moraines are deposited on top of the glacier they do not experience the post glacial erosion of the valley floor and therefore as the glacier melts lateral moraines are usually preserved as high ridges.

Ground moraines are till covered areas with irregular topography and no ridges. Ground moraines often form gently rolling hills or plains. The debris of ground moraines may be deposited as the glacier retreats. The ground moraine is typically located between the two lateral moraines.

Terminal moraines are ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the terminus or end of the glacier. Typically terminal moraines reflect the shape of the glacier s terminus. Glaciers act much like a conveyor belt carrying debris from the top of the glacier to the bottom where the debris is deposited in terminal moraines. The longer the terminus of the glacier stays in one place the more accumulation there will be. Terminal moraines typically mark the maximum advance of the glacier.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for a method for mapping glacial geomorphology. In one implementation a satellite image of an area of interest may be received. A digital elevation model of the area of interest may be received. Plains and ridges may be identified on the digital elevation model. The identification of plains and ridges may be used to estimate seismic surface wave velocities surface wave noise and seismic wave attenuation.

In another implementation swamps and forest may be identified on the satellite image. A glaciological map may be generated having glacial features based on the identified plains ridges swamps and forest. The glaciological map may be generated by correlating the swamps with the plains and the ridges with the forest.

Glacial features may include lateral moraines terminal moraines and ground moraines. Based on the glacial features boundaries of glaciers may be identified. Each glacier may be defined by lateral moraines on opposite sides of the glacier a terminal moraine at an end of the glacier and a ground moraine disposed between the lateral moraines and the terminal moraine. A sequence of glacial advancement of the glaciers may then be reconstructed where the glacier having the best preserved glacial features is displayed last. The reconstruction of the sequence may be used for logistical planning of a seismic acquisition.

In another implementation the plains and ridges may be identified by performing a statistical analysis on flat terrain structured terrain and escarpments. Flat terrain may be identified as areas on the digital elevation model having a gradient of less than five percent Structured terrain may be identified as areas on the digital elevation model having a gradient greater than five percent and less than twenty percent. Escarpments may be identified as areas on the digital elevation model having a gradient greater than twenty percent. In one implementation the statistical analysis may be performed by creating a hypsographic curve of the areas identified as flat terrain structured terrain and escarpments.

The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all of the noted disadvantages. Further the summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary section is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

The following paragraph provides a brief summary of various techniques described herein. In general a digital elevation model is used to identify gradients of an area of interest. The gradients may be used to identify topographical features in the area of interest. Topographical features may include ridges and plains. A satellite image of the area of interest may be used to identify land use classes. Land use classes may include swamps and plains. The intersection of topographical features and land use classes may be used to identify glacial features in the area of interest. The intersection of ridges and forests may identify lateral or terminal moraines. The intersection of swamps and plains may identify ground moraines. Glacial boundaries that outline glaciers may be drawn using the glacial features. The advancement of the glaciers outlined by the boundaries may then be reconstructed. One or more implementations of various techniques for glacial geomorphologic mapping will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

Glacial geomorphologic mapping may be performed through an analysis of the digital elevation model A and the satellite image A of an area of interest. The area of interest may be an area of groundwater management hydrocarbon exploration or other geotechnical projects.

At step the digital elevation model A may be received. The digital elevation model may be a digital representation of ground surface topography or a subsurface horizon. In one implementation the area of interest may be subdivided by a grid as shown in the digital elevation model A. Each cell of the grid may represent a fixed area within the area of interest. For example each cell may represent a 30 meter m by 30 m area of terrain. Additionally the digital elevation model A may include an elevation for the terrain within each cell .

At step terrain classes may be identified on the digital elevation model A. In other words a terrain class may be identified for each cell in the digital elevation model A. Terrain classes may include flat terrain structured terrain and escarpments. Flat and structured terrains may contain moraines. The identification of escarpments may be useful for logistics planning. For example the identification of escarpments may be used to indicate locations where access by vehicles may be impossible. Also escarpments may detrimentally affect data collection for geotechnical projects due to the scattering of seismic waves.

In one implementation the terrain classes may be based on a gradient value. In other words a gradient or slope of each cell may be determined. The cells may then be identified as terrain classes depending on the gradient value for the cell . TABLE 1 illustrates example gradient values for terrain classes.

In one implementation the gradient for each cell may be determined by comparing the elevations of neighboring cells in a north south and east west direction. Referring to for example the gradient at cell X may be determined by the difference in elevation from cell to north south and the difference in elevation from cell to east west .

After identifying terrain classes the topography classification may be further refined. At step plains and ridges may be identified on the digital elevation model A. The identification of plains and ridges may be based on the terrain classes for each cell . In one implementation a statistical analysis on the identified terrain classes may be performed to identify regions of areas as plains or ridges. In such an implementation neighboring cells may be grouped together to form a region. The occurrence of certain percentages of terrain classes within a region may be used to identify plains ridges or some other topography.

TABLE 2 illustrates the relationship between terrain classes and the more refined topographies. As shown from the digital elevation model DEM three terrain classes are identified. For regions with strictly flat terrain plains may be identified. For regions with flat terrain and structured terrain ridges on plains may be identified. For regions with strictly structured terrain mountains may be identified. Escarpments may not be further refined.

For example illustrates a digital elevation model B with four cells identified as terrain classes three identified as F flat and one cell identified as S structured . These four cells may be grouped into a single region as shown in .

In one implementation the statistical analysis may be performed by creating a hypsographic curve. A hypsographic curve may be a graph that shows the proportion of land area that exists at various elevations by plotting relative area against relative height. In such an implementation the local elevation values may be binned into the terrain classes i.e. flat terrain structured terrain and escarpments. The hypsographic curve may be computed from the cumulative sum of the number of terrain classes per region. The identification of plains and ridges may then be determined based on the hypsographic curve.

At step the satellite image A of the area of interest may be received. In one implementation the satellite image may be a remote sensing satellite image. Remote sensing is the acquisition of information of an object by the use of either recording or real time sensing device s that are not in physical contact with the object. The remote sensing satellite image may measure reflected sunlight from the area of interest. In one implementation the satellite image A may be a continuous color red green blue RGB image. In such an implementation the satellite image A may be generated from Landsat bands 7 4 and 2.

Similar to the digital elevation models the area of interest in the satellite image A may be subdivided by a grid. Each cell of the grid may represent a region in the digital elevation model C. As shown the satellite image A may include a color for each region.

At step swamps and forests may be identified for each region. Swamps and forests are examples of land use classes that can be distinguished from each other based on vegetation type. In one implementation land use classes may be identified based on the color of the region in the satellite image A. Identifying swamps and forests may be useful because these land use classes may contain moraines. FIG. B illustrates a satellite image B with land use classes identified based on the colors for the regions in the satellite image A. TABLE 3 illustrates an example of colors and their respective land use classes.

At step a glaciological map may be generated. The glaciological map may contain glacial features. The glacial features may be identified based on the identified plains and ridges in the digital elevation model and the swamps and forests in the satellite image. More specifically the glacial features may be identified through a correlation matrix of topography and land use classes. TABLE 4 illustrates the correlation matrix. N A stands for not applicable because a swamp cannot occur on a ridge.

For example illustrates the glaciological map generated based on the identified plains and ridges in the digital elevation model C and the identified swamps and forests in the satellite image B. As shown ground moraines may be identified based on the correlation of plains P and swamps. Lateral or terminal moraines may be identified based on the correlation of ridges RP and forests. All other regions may be identified as non glacial.

At step glacial boundaries may be identified based on the glacial features in the glaciological map . The boundaries of a single glacier may be identified through the identification of a feature group. The feature group may include a lateral moraine on each side of a glacier a terminal moraine at the end of the glacier and a ground moraine disposed between the two lateral moraines and the terminal moraine.

For example illustrates a glaciological map with glacial boundaries and . The shading in the glaciological map may represent lateral terminal and ground moraines. Each of the boundaries and may represent the outline of one glacier. It should be noted that not in some scenarios moraines may occur outside of a feature group. In such a scenario the moraines may represent an ice sheet instead of a glacier. For example the boundary may represent an ice sheet that is indicated by the occurrence of terminal moraines.

At step a sequence of glacial advancement of the glaciers and may be reconstructed. The sequence of the glacial advancement may be determined based on the state of preservation of the glacial features in comparison to each other. For example the glacier with glacial features that are best preserved in comparison to other glaciers may be the last glacier that advanced.

In one implementation the reconstruction may be performed by displaying the individual glaciers on the glaciological map in the sequence of advancement. illustrate a reconstruction of a sequence of glacial advancement based on the glaciers with boundaries and respectively. As stated previously the glacier with the best preserved features may be displayed last.

Some useful applications of information provided by glacial geomorphologic mapping are summarized in TABLE 5 below.

The system computer may be in communication with disk storage devices and which may be external hard disk storage devices. It is contemplated that disk storage devices and are conventional hard disk drives and as such will be implemented by way of a local area network or by remote access. Of course while disk storage devices and are illustrated as separate devices a single disk storage device may be used to store any and all of the program instructions measurement data and results as desired.

In one implementation area of interest data for the digital elevation model A and the satellite image A may be stored in disk storage device . The system computer may retrieve the appropriate data from the disk storage device to process area of interest data according to program instructions that correspond to implementations of various technologies described herein. The program instructions may be written in a computer programming language such as C Java and the like. The program instructions may be stored in a computer readable medium such as program disk storage device . Such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system computer .

Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In one implementation the system computer may present output primarily onto graphics display or alternatively via printer . The system computer may store the results of the methods described above on disk storage for later use and further analysis. The keyboard and the pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or the like may be provided with the system computer to enable interactive operation.

The system computer may be located at a data center remote from the area of interest. The system computer may be in communication with a satellite either directly or via a recording unit not shown to receive signals indicative of the satellite image A. These signals after conventional formatting and other initial processing may be stored by the system computer as digital data in the disk storage for subsequent retrieval and processing in the manner described above.

While illustrates the disk storage as directly connected to the system computer it is also contemplated that the disk storage device may be accessible through a local area network or by remote access. Furthermore while disk storage devices are illustrated as separate devices for storing input data and analysis results the disk storage devices may be implemented within a single disk drive either together with or separately from program disk storage device or in any other conventional manner as will be fully understood by one of skill in the art having reference to this specification.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

