---

title: Manual operations in an enterprise security assessment sharing system
abstract: An enterprise-wide sharing arrangement uses a semantic abstraction, called a security assessment, to share security-related information between different security products, called endpoints. A security assessment is defined as a tentative assignment by an endpoint of broader contextual meaning to information that is collected about an object of interest. Endpoints may publish security assessments onto a security assessment channel, as well as subscribe to a subset of security assessments published by other endpoints. A specialized endpoint is coupled to the channel that performs as a centralized audit point by subscribing to all security assessments, logging the security assessments, and also logging the local actions taken by endpoints in response to received security assessments. Manual operations are supported by the specialized endpoint including manual approval of actions, security assessment cancellation, and manual injection of security assessments into the security assessment channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08136164&OS=08136164&RS=08136164
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08136164
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080227
---
In an enterprise computing environment for example an office of a business a number of personal computers workstations servers and the like along with other devices such as mass storage subsystems internal network interfaces and external network interfaces are typically interconnected to provide an integrated environment in which information may be generated accessed from external sources and shared among various users. Commonly users perform a variety of operations including order receipt manufacturing shipping billing inventory control document preparation and management e mail web browsing and other operations in which creation access and sharing of data is beneficial.

Currently security is typically provided for an enterprise using a variety of different security products that are each normally arranged to monitor only a partial portion of enterprise wide data. That is security products are arranged as separate local islands where each product monitors assesses and takes action with respect to different parts of the data within the enterprise. For example an enterprise may utilize a combination of security products such as a product that protects host computers in the enterprise an edge firewall product a network intrusion detection system NIDS product a network access protection NAP product and other discrete security products in order to provide security for the various different parts of the enterprise.

While these security products often perform satisfactorily in many applications detection of security incidents often suffers from undesirably high levels of false positive and false negative occurrences as a result of the monitoring of only partial enterprise security data. It has also been difficult to provide effective common management across all the enterprise security product islands. Current attempts to correlate enterprise wide security data have high management and maintenance costs and have problems in scaling. More effective enterprise security management would be desirable to enable a single enterprise wide view to enable security administrators to define and enforce clear simple and unified enterprise wide policies for automatic responses to security incidents.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follows. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

An enterprise wide sharing arrangement called ESAS Enterprise Security Assessment Sharing is provided in which a semantic abstraction called a security assessment is created to enable sharing of security related information between different security products called endpoints in an enterprise security environment. A security assessment is defined as a tentative assignment by an endpoint of broader contextual meaning to information i.e. data in some context that is collected about an object of interest in the environment such as a computer user service e.g. a website data or the enterprise as a whole. The security assessment utilizes a concise vocabulary for an endpoint to declare that an object in the environment falls into a particular assessment category such as compromised or under attack along with the severity e.g. low medium high critical of the detected incident.

A security assessment is tentative because it is subject to some uncertainty and is valid for a limited period of time. The tentative nature of a security assessment is reflected in two of its components a fidelity field which expresses the level of confidence the endpoint has in its assignment of contextual meaning and a time to live TTL field which reflects the endpoint s estimate of the time period for which the security assessment is expected to be valid. Thus for example a security assessment may be used by an endpoint to declare in light of that endpoint s current understanding of one or more security incidents that a particular machine is compromised with a critical level of severity with medium fidelity and having a TTL of 30 minutes. A variety of types of security assessments may be used in any given enterprise security environment having for example various combinations of assessment category and object type.

Endpoints are enabled with functionality to publish security assessments onto a security assessment channel operating in the environment as well as subscribe to a subset of available security assessments published by other endpoints. The security assessments existing in the environment that are active i.e. those having a TTL which indicates the assessments are still valid function to provide a security context that gives such ESAS enabled endpoint a new way to look at its own locally available information. That is the security context enables the ESAS enabled endpoint to combine or correlate evidence from security assessments received from a variety of different sources and across object types in order to significantly enhance the quality of its detection of potential security incidents. The ESAS enabled endpoint then makes a decision as to what local action or response is appropriate for each type of security assessment whether received from another endpoint or internally generated by the endpoint itself in accordance with a set of response policies. Incident detection is both efficient and cost effective because the security context enables distributed processing of enterprise wide information in the form of security assessments without the burden of sharing large amounts of raw data throughout the enterprise most of which is completely irrelevant due to the lack of any context . ESAS enabled endpoints are further arranged to roll back the local action upon expiration of the security assessment that prompted the local action i.e. when the security assessment exceeds the time to live specified in the TTL field or when a security assessment is manually cancelled as discussed below .

In various illustrative examples a specialized endpoint called an ESAS central server is coupled to the security assessment channel that performs as a centralized audit point by subscribing to all security assessments logging the security assessments and also logging the local actions taken by endpoints in response to security incidents in the environment. The ESAS central server provides administrators with a comprehensive view of the history and current status of the enterprise as a whole and of each ESAS enabled endpoint. The utilization of the security assessments enables an administrator to compactly and efficiently configure response policies to incidents that are detected across the entire enterprise. The security assessments function as natural anchors or starting points to define enterprise wide security response policies. A streamlined and consistent management interface is thus enabled to define the desired responses for each type of security assessment across the entire enterprise.

The ESAS central server or a separate ESAS administrator admin console may also be arranged to support a variety of manual operations that can be performed by the administrator when dealing with security assessments. These manual operations include the ability of the administrator to set the response policies so that selected responses i.e. local actions taken by an ESAS enabled endpoint are set to be triggered automatically in response to receipt of a given security assessment while other responses are set to require manual approval by the administrator before they are implemented by an endpoint.

The administrator may also be provided with an ability to manually cancel a security assessment that has been published into the channel by an ESAS enabled endpoint. The administrator may cancel a security assessment for example when it is determined to be incorrect e.g. it relates to a false positive detection of a security incident or the underlying security incident or problem which triggered the security assessment has been resolved which makes the security assessment no longer relevant. A cancellation message from the ESAS central server is then sent through the security assessment channel which when received by the ESAS enabled endpoints causes any local action taken as a result of the published security assessment to be rolled back in response to the cancellation. When the ESAS enabled endpoint that originally published the security assessment that was later manually cancelled receives the cancellation message the issuance of any new security assessments about the same object for the same reason is suppressed even though the endpoint may continue to detect the same pattern that triggered the original security assessment. Such suppression typically occurs over a period of time that equals the TTL of the original security assessment.

In addition to being able to set response policies to accommodate manual approval and having the ability to manually cancel a security assessment the administrator may also be provided with a facility to create new security assessments that can be manually injected into the security assessment channel. Such manually injected security assessments use the same compact and precise vocabulary as assessments generated by the ESAS enabled endpoints including assessment category e.g. compromised vulnerable severity fidelity and TTL for example. A security assessment can be generated and then manually injected when an administrator learns of a security incident or issue from external information that the ESAS system cannot access on its own or would not know how to look at such information.

For example the administrator may manually inject a security assessment into the ESAS channel based on an investigation of a possible security incident or after receiving a report by telephone from a user regarding unusual behavior of a local host machine or an external URL. The ESAS enabled endpoints will treat a manually injected security assessment as they do other assessments and will take actions in accordance with the response policies. The administrator can thus manually inject a security assessment as a way to educate the ESAS system and take advantage of the system s largely automated responses to effectively and efficiently deal with security incidents that the administrator learns of or discovers.

The present ESAS sharing arrangement provides a number of advantages. By employing a security assessment having a concise vocabulary overall data complexity in the enterprise is drastically reduced and only meaningful information is shared between endpoints. Use of the security assessment also eliminates the need to collect large amounts of raw data in a central storage location and thereby enables highly scalable enterprise security solutions to be built on a very cost effective basis. In addition a new endpoint may be readily deployed with on demand extensibility. Security assessments may be shared between the new endpoint and existing endpoints without the need to reconfigure any of the response policies within existing endpoints. The new endpoint simply functions as a new source of security assessments using a semantic abstraction that the existing endpoints already understand. The utilization of security assessments also enables enterprise wide security policies to be established using a very compact and clear methodology without needing to understand all of the possible security events that every endpoint may generate in the enterprise and then try to describe the responsive action for each event.

The manual operations capabilities provide even further benefits by enabling administrators to exercise more control over responses taken by the ESAS system. Such control can be important when first deploying an ESAS system where the administrator may wish to gain confidence that the response policies are appropriately set before allowing fully automatic responses to take place. Or there may be situations even after an ESAS system is fully deployed and tested where critical assets are at issue and the administrator would prefer to have the opportunity to review and approve responses before they are implemented. With assets such as domain controllers or web servers that support financial transactions administrators may want to double check that a security incident has in fact occurred that is serious enough to justify the planned response. This may be the case particularly if the planned response is harsh and involves for example the asset being shut down or having access to it restricted which could possibly have a large business impact by affecting productivity revenue or costs.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Analysis of current enterprise security solutions indicates that there are still significant opportunities for addressing customer needs. For example each separate security product tends to have high rates of false positive and false negative detection of security incidents such as those produced through actions of malware or malicious users. Such low fidelity detection occurs because data from a single type of source i.e. a subset of the enterprise wide data does not normally provide the context needed to make an accurate assessment of the security incident.

The use of automatic actions or responses is very infrequent as a result of the low fidelity detection since confidence in the validity of the detected incident is low. In addition the typical response to a detected incident tends to be very harsh for example a user or machine may be disconnected from the network. Since such harsh actions generally impose significant costs to business activity in the enterprise automation of such actions based on low fidelity detection is not generally performed.

Upon detection of an incident of interest current security products typically perform investigation to determine the validity of the detection i.e. whether the incident is true or false and what action to take in response. Significant resources are expended on investigation to review the detailed data that is collected which may be relevant to the detected incident. Because it is not feasible to collect all data at all times a security product collects only a subset of the available data through application of policies defined by an administrator. Such policies are often static and are commonly defined based on the storage capacity of the collection system and not necessarily by the relevance of the incident data or the data source.

When an incident is detected application of the policies typically results in a review of the data which triggered the detection. When this data is deemed insufficient to generate a high fidelity response typically even more data is collected. For example all of the data traffic into and out of a suspected compromised machine may be monitored. In many cases a large amount of data is collected but is never used and has statistical significance only as noise. Consequently many present security products collect an often overwhelming amount of noise but not enough relevant data is collected.

Another area for improvement is the management and coordination of responses throughout the enterprise. Current enterprise security products inherently provide localized responses to incidents detected in each separate island. Since the security products are isolated the possible response options are limited to that part of the enterprise in which the particular security product operates. That is actions and responses are capable of being defined in one security product island for separate incidents that are detected but there is no ability to describe a desired action which may be more effective when it is applied in another part of the enterprise or on a global basis. There is currently no single management point to enable enterprise wide definition and enforcement of response policies to security incidents. Nor does a unified response channel and language protocol exist by which each island can communicate to thereby notify the others that something has occurred or an action needs to be taken. The lack of management and coordinated responses results in significant costs being incurred for manual integration and correlation of data across the islands in the enterprise.

Turning now to the drawings where like reference numerals indicate like elements shows an illustrative enterprise security environment in which a variety of security products called endpoints are deployed. It is emphasized that the number and type of endpoints shown in are merely illustrative and the specific number of endpoints can be scaled up or down and different types of security products endpoints can be utilized depending on the requirements of a specific application of enterprise security assessment sharing. For example in addition to those shown in and described below web application protection products SEM SIM Security Event Management Security Incident Management products operational heath monitoring and configuration management products e.g. Microsoft Windows Software Update Services Microsoft Operations Manager or identity management products e.g. Microsoft Active Directory are also usable in some applications.

In enterprise security environment a host security endpoint is deployed to protect assess and monitor a plurality of host computers in the enterprise environment . A commercial example of the host security endpoint is Microsoft Forefront Client Security FCS which provides unified malware protection for the enterprise s desktops laptops and server operating systems.

An edge firewall is a security product that is arranged to protect the enterprise environment from Internet based threats while providing users with remote access to applications and data through a perimeter network . Edge firewall may be embodied by for example a Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration ISA server.

A NAP security endpoint performs computer health policy validation by ensuring ongoing compliance with health policies defined by an administrator. Typically access is restricted for computers e.g. desktops and roaming laptops monitored by the NAP security endpoint that do not comply with system health requirements.

A NIDS security endpoint analyzes traffic inside the enterprise over an internal network . The NIDS security endpoint operates to detect malicious activity such as denial of service attacks port scans by monitoring network traffic on the internal network .

A line of business security endpoint protects various line of business applications . Line of business applications include for example an e mail application such as Microsoft Exchange that is used in the enterprise . Security endpoint typically monitors e mail to provide anti virus and anti spam protection.

Each of the security endpoints in the enterprise are normally arranged as individual islands as indicated by the dashed rectangles in . Accordingly each security endpoint is arranged for monitoring a subset of the available data in the enterprise and for performing localized actions in response to a detected incident. In addition each endpoint typically includes a local management function . As noted above the individual local management functions are not generally integrated to provide a single point of management.

The endpoints are isolated from the mechanics of the actual transport and management of the publish subscribe model through a semantic abstraction layer that is arranged to simplify interactions with the security assessment channel . The abstraction layer comprises tables describing the security assessment types to which the endpoints subscribe and tables describing the security assessment types that endpoints publish as described below not all endpoints generally subscribe to all security assessment types . In addition the abstraction layer provides an API application programming interface for reading received security assessments and an API for generating security assessments.

A specialized endpoint ESAS central server is coupled to the security assessment channel and performs as a centralized audit point for the ESAS system . Accordingly the ESAS central server subscribes to all security assessments and permanently logs them. ESAS central server also receives and logs messages from the endpoints that indicate the local actions that are taken by an endpoint. The ESAS central server thus provides administrators with security assessment monitoring functionality that gives a comprehensive view of the history and current status of the enterprise as a whole and each ESAS enabled endpoint.

A security assessment may be performed on any object of interest in an enterprise security environment such as a user or a device. In this illustrative example assessments include four main object types 1 Host assessments about computers in an enterprise 2 User assessments about users or accounts in an enterprise 3 Service assessments about a service provided to the enterprise such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator of a web site that has a reputation as being malicious 4 Enterprise assessments about the enterprise as a whole or a well defined subset of the enterprise such as a department subnet site or branch and 5 Data assessments about business related data e.g. as found in documents e mail business data in a database etc. that is present or accessed by objects in the enterprise.

It is emphasized that these object types are merely illustrative and other object types may be used as required by specific scenarios. In most applications of enterprise security assessment sharing endpoints only publish and subscribe to a subset of all of the available security assessment types since particular endpoints are generally going to have interest in particular objects in the enterprise environment. In addition while some endpoints will be both publishers and subscribers there is no requirement for every endpoint to support both functionalities. For these reasons the publish subscribe model used herein is said to be loosely coupled.

Table 1 below shows an illustrative set of assessment categories i.e. types and their mapping to specific object types that may be contained in a typical security assessment 

In the present illustrative ESAS arrangement four levels of severity are typically utilized low medium high and critical. Three levels of fidelity are typically utilized low medium and high. Note that the number of levels for both severity and fidelity can be arranged to be different depending on the assessment category. For example it is possible to use the three severity levels for the assessment category of vulnerable machine while using four severity levels for the assessment category of compromised machine. The particular choice of number of levels to be utilized will depend on the requirements of a specific application of the present enterprise security assessment sharing.

A security assessment uses information that is available at the time the assessment is made and relies on the particular security expertise and knowledge that is resident in the endpoint that produces it. A security assessment is tentative because confidence in any particular event can never be absolute and also because the assessment is temporary in nature as it relies on information that is present at the time it was produced. At some future time other information will be available so the security assessment may change.

The tentative nature of a security assessment is reflected in two fields included in each assessment fidelity and time to live TTL . The fidelity field provides a way for endpoints to express their confidence level in an assignment of a broader contextual meaning to information being analyzed. The TTL field enables endpoints to reflect the best estimate of the time period for which the security assessment is expected to be valid. Or alternatively the TTL field provides the best estimate for a future security assessment update. When a TTL expires an endpoint that takes actions based on a security assessment to which it subscribes is expected to roll back such actions when the TTL of that assessment expires. Thus the TTL provides a safety valve functionality to prevent a user or a machine from getting inappropriately trapped with restricted access due to a false positive or the loss of a message somewhere in the enterprise. However if such restricted access is indeed appropriate then either a new security assessment may be generated to continue the restriction or the TTL extended.

The security assessment is designed to enable precise semantics i.e. the meaning imparted by the categorization used in the security assessment using a compact vocabulary. As shown in two of the endpoints in the enterprise log data about events that occur in their respective areas of interest. The host event logs and firewall event logs thus contain very large amounts of data. Typically the data is processed in the respective endpoints using correlation rules and in order to identify events of interest. The correlation rules which are often numerous define the localized sponsors or actions taken responsibly to a detected event.

By comparison the security assessments indicated by reference numeral contain only a relatively small amount of data. As security assessments are utilized to assign broad context to information they provide answers to the questions Who created the assessment When Why For how long And on which object does the assessment apply Thus in order to make use of a security assessment an endpoint need only understand the few assessment types of interest as compared with the unbounded number of information messages that result from application of the correlation rules. Accordingly the complexity of the data collected by each endpoint is reduced by mapping information into one or more of the assessment types. Using security assessments thus enables relevant information to be provided to subscribing endpoints without requiring that large amounts of data or information be shared across the enterprise.

Table 2 below provides an illustrative set of fields that may be included in a typical security assessment.

In this illustrative example of enterprise security assessment sharing each endpoint is arranged to perform at least some of the tasks noted below. In some arrangements each endpoint is enhanced with additional functionality as required to perform such tasks through use of a discrete ESAS agent. Alternatively the enhanced functionality may be more tightly integrated into the core functionality provided by the endpoint and a separate or discrete agent may not necessarily be embodied in the endpoint. Such tasks include 

A plurality of security assessments are available for each of the security assessment types i.e. hosts users reputations and enterprise . As indicated by reference numeral in this illustrative example ESAS agent subscribes to security assessments having a host object type with an assessment category of vulnerable. It is emphasized that a particular combination of object type and assessment category that is of interest can be different for different endpoints. Again using the loosely coupled publish subscribe model there is no requirement that every endpoint subscribes to every security assessment.

At process block the endpoint processes the received security assessment using correlation rules and locally available data that may be of some relevance. The outputs of such an assessment process include the generation of the new assessment and or an invocation of a local action . As noted above such local action is subject to roll back i.e. self recovery when the received assessment expires according to the TTL field contained therein.

It is important to note that the Rule refers to the exclusivity of information and not data as these terms were defined above. Two endpoints can process the same or overlapping data sources provided that the information they extract from the data and later use to generate assessments is exclusive.

To illustrate the implications of Rule consider the following example where a scheduled antivirus scan of a machine detects and removes a piece of known malware. Based on this detection other locally available information a received currently active assessment and on the endpoint s embedded knowledge about current security incidents the endpoint may conclude one of the following 1 a machine was infected in the past but is now clean and does not pose any additional future security risk 2 The machine was infected and while the particular malware was removed it is possible or likely that it still poses a security risk. According to Rule an endpoint should generate a security assessment about the machine in the latter case and not generate one in the former.

Third the subscribing endpoints and the ESAS central server which receive the security assessment apply their specific security expertise through the application of their own correlation rules and locally available data to trigger an appropriate action. As collectively indicated by reference numeral in the host security endpoint performs a quick scan. The NAP endpoint revokes the IP security certificate for the identified compromised client and implements a port shutdown. The line of business security endpoint temporarily suspends instant messaging IM traffic to the compromised client based on the received security assessment. The ESAS central server raises an alert for a security analyst e.g. an administrator and also logs all of the security assessments and actions invoked.

The first illustrative scenario described above provides a case where the endpoint detecting the suspicious incident generates a security assessment with high severity and high fidelity i.e. the endpoint has a high degree of confidence that it has validly detected a serious incident . By comparison is a diagram of a second illustrative scenario in which a low fidelity security assessment is sent over the security assessment channel that triggers the generation of a high fidelity assessment by a receiving endpoint which also performs cross object mapping.

This second illustrative scenario is also described in three stages. As indicated by reference numeral the edge firewall first detects a large number of client connections to the perimeter network . However unlike the first illustrative scenario shown in and described in the accompanying text the number of connections being established by the client is not so high that the edge firewall can be absolutely certain that the client has been compromised. In current enterprise security systems when an endpoint sees such data it generally just drops the data and takes no action as there is not enough evidence to warrant the typically harsh response such as disconnecting the machine. By comparison in the present scenario the edge firewall in the second stage sends a security assessment over the security assessment channel that indicates that the particular client is compromised with medium severity and low fidelity as indicated by reference numeral .

Here the subscribing endpoints to the particular object referenced in the security assessment generated by the edge firewall include the host security endpoint and the ESAS central server . While such a low fidelity data normally does not trigger an action to be taken at an endpoint in current security products in accordance with the present enterprise security assessment sharing the host security endpoint looks at its own local data differently in light of the received security assessment from the edge firewall . In this case the local data resulting from a quick scan at the host security endpoint and the information contained in the security assessment from the edge firewall are used to generate new assessments and . Thus the host security endpoint has information that by itself does not warrant the generation of a new security assessment but when reinforced with even a low fidelity assessment from another endpoint as in this case there is sufficient evidence to justify the creation of the new security assessments and which each have high fidelity.

The host security endpoint places the new security assessments and onto the security assessment channel . The new security assessments and are received over the security assessment channel by the subscribing endpoints which in this illustrative scenario include the edge firewall and the ESAS central server for security assessment and line of business endpoint for security assessment .

Note that the line of business endpoint was not a subscriber to the original security assessment produced by the edge firewall because the reference object type is a machine and the line of business endpoint by virtue of its role in protecting e mail is typically concerned with the users. However in this second illustrative scenario the host security endpoint maps from a host object type to a user object type when it generates a new security assessment . Such cross object mapping capability may be beneficial in many scenarios as it is contemplated that a high severity incident such as malware or malicious activity that potentially compromises the data confidentiality or integrity of a host computer may also potentially compromise the user as well. A security assessment may be generated that cross maps the high severity incident from the host object type to a user object type with a certain degree of fidelity. Similarly for a critical severity incident in which malware or malicious activity has actually caused a loss of data integrity on a host computer a security assessment for a user object type may be generated with even higher fidelity.

In stage three the new security assessments and trigger a variety of respective responsive actions at the receiving endpoints as collectively indicated by reference numeral . Specifically the edge firewall blocks all access by the compromised client with the exception of software updates and or mission critical access. The line of business endpoint temporarily suspends outgoing e mails. And as with the first illustrative scenario the ESAS central server continues to log all assessments and actions. As noted above such restrictions are enforced only during the period of time for which the TTL associated with the new security assessments and remains valid. When the new security assessments expire the actions taken by the respective endpoints are rolled back unless the TTL is extended or a new security assessment which invokes the restrictive actions is received.

The host security endpoint reviews the received security assessment and applies its specific security expertise using correlation rules and any relevant locally available data. In this illustrative example the host security endpoint responsively generates a new security assessment containing a user object type to which the line of business security endpoint subscribes.

In the third stage of the scenario the remediation techniques employed by the endpoints are considered expensive in terms of their potential impact on business operations within the enterprise . For example as indicated by reference numeral the line of business security endpoint implements a response policy that entails temporarily suspending outgoing e mail. In addition the host security endpoint performs a quick scan and if no results are achieved it then performs a full scan. While such remediation techniques can be very effective in addressing malware malicious users and other problems they typically impart significant expense to the enterprise. For example a user whose outgoing e mail is suspended will be less productive and full scanning typically requires one or more reboots which will remove the machine from service for a period of time.

The present ESAS arrangement advantageously enables these effective albeit expensive remediation techniques to be applied in a targeted manner and not merely in a general way or across the board which can be unjustified for some machines and or users. Only objects in the environment that are deemed suspicious using pre defined criteria will be subject to these particular remediation techniques.

Screen is an illustrative example showing the configuration of enterprise wide response policies using fields for a number of different endpoints for the case of an assessment category of a compromised machine with critical severity which defines a starting point i.e. anchor point for the response policy configuration as indicated by reference numeral . It is emphasized that other user interface screens would be utilized for other assessment categories object types severity levels etc. so that the user is enabled to define response policies for the plurality of different starting points that are likely to be used in a particular enterprise security environment. The response policies in this particular example are set depending upon the fidelity of a particular security assessment for a set severity level of Critical. Fields include a number of respective subfields that are arranged to reflect user defined input using for example text entry boxes drop down menus and the like that are employed in typical GUIs.

As indicated in subfield for a security assessment indicating a compromised machine with critical severity the edge firewall is configured to increase the amount of auditing i.e. moving to a deep audit level that increases the amount of data collected as compared with a normal level of auditing when a security assessment has low fidelity. Subfield shows that for an assessment having medium fidelity the edge firewall increases the auditing level and also restricts Internet access to the suspected compromised machine to only white list URLs which typically include sites that are known to not be malicious. When the fidelity is high as shown by subfield access to the Internet is blocked completely.

Field shows the response policy configuration for the host security endpoint . For a security assessment having low fidelity and indicating a compromised machine with critical severity the host security endpoint increases the amount of auditing to a deep audit level as indicated by subfield . Subfield indicates that for the cases of medium and high fidelity the host security endpoint increases its auditing and also performs a full or deep scan of it hosts where a deep scan may entail the computer to be rebooted one or more times .

Field shows the response policy configuration for the line of business security endpoint . For a security assessment having low fidelity and indicating a compromised machine with critical severity the line of business security endpoint increases the amount of auditing to a deep audit level as indicated by subfield . Subfield indicates that for a security assessment having medium fidelity the line of business security endpoint increases its data collection to a deep audit and also restricts file attachments to e mail. Subfield indicates that for a security assessment having high fidelity line of business security endpoint blocks all instant messaging IM traffic.

Field shows the response policy configuration for the ESAS central server in . For a security assessment having high fidelity the ESAS central server as indicated in subfield executes a port shutdown for the affected machine and generates an alert that the associated user account has been suspended. As with the subfields discussed above subfield is typically arranged to accept user defined input.

Turning now to the manual operations which may be supported in most typical ESAS implementations generally an endpoint will automatically trigger a response when it receives a security assessment according to a response policy unless the response is marked typically by a network or ESAS system administrator as requiring manual approval. The functionality attendant to the manual operations may be supported by the ESAS central server in some cases or alternatively be provided as new functionality which may be added to conventional administrator consoles or network management operations products.

The administrator may select rule criteria to be applied to the assessment severity using the drop down menu which provides one or more predefined levels of severity from which to choose for example low medium high and critical. As shown the administrator has selected medium in this example. A drop down menu provides a qualifier for the assessment severity. The qualifier may be used to define a range of severities that will be included in the rule. For example the severity must be greater than or equal to or less than the predefined value selected by the administrator in the drop down menu . Here in this example the administrator has indicated that the assessment severity be greater than or equal to medium in order for the rule criteria to apply.

Similar drop down menus are provided in the rule editor for assessment fidelity and the qualifier as respectively indicated by reference numerals and . In this example as shown the assessment fidelity must be greater than or equal to high.

Under the Responses tab of the rules editor as shown in the illustrative screen shot in the administrator may configure the responses taken by various endpoints and the method automatic or requiring manual approval by which the response is implemented. The rule editor is arranged to add new responses using a New Response button . Configured responses may also be deleted by an administrator by using a delete icon as representatively indicated by reference numeral . It is noted that it is not necessary for every endpoint to respond or take an action in response to a given security assessment so the Responses tab provides an easy and flexible way for the administrator to add configure and delete responses as may be required to meet the needs of a particular scenario.

In this example there are three responses which have been configured using drop down menus and which enable the administrator to select from a number of different endpoints in the ESAS system for which to configure responses. In this example the responses are taken by an FcsEndpoint e.g. host security endpoint and a CentralEndpoint e.g. ESAS central server .

Using drop down menus and the administrator can typically pick from a variety of predefined responses. In this example the response names include an anti malware quick scan and an anti malware full scan as respective responses to be taken by the host security endpoint . As shown in the illustrative scenario in and described in the accompany text the host security endpoint may be configured in some cases to perform the quick scan of host machines in an enterprise in response to a received security assessment that meets the applicable rule criteria but then perform a full scan if the quick scan produces no results. However as shown in the drop down menu which indicates the response method for the full scan the administrator has selected that the full scan response requires manual approval before being taken by the host security endpoint. The manual approval required for the full scan contrasts with the automatic response that the administrator has selected from the drop down menu for the anti malware quick scan.

The different response methods selected by the administrator in this example helps to highlight a significant feature provided by the present manual operations functionality where the administrator may tailor the responses to fit a particular scenario. In this case as noted above in the text accompanying a full scan typically requires one or more reboots of a host machine in order to be completed. As such activity can remove the machine from service for a period of time and thus impact productivity the administrator has chosen here to be given the opportunity to manually approve the full scan response before it is taken by the host security endpoint . However the quick scan which can typically be performed in an unobtrusive manner with very little or no impact to productivity is chosen by the administrator in this example to be performed automatically.

Another reason for implementing manual approval for responses taken by endpoints in the ESAS system is that an administrator may wish to gain some experience with a particular set of response policies and verify that the responses are appropriately scoped and correctly implemented before enabling their automatic triggering. This situation may occur for example when an ESAS system is being deployed for the first time.

Also shown in is the administrator s selection of an automated method in drop down menu for the medium severity alert response that is selected from drop down menu . In this case the ESAS central server will raise a medium severity alert automatically when it receives a security assessment which meets the applicable rule criteria i.e. indicating a compromised machine having at least medium severity and high fidelity in this example . It is noted that the screen shots shown in are representative of screens used by the GUI that supports the rule editor and other similar screens are contemplated as being used as may be necessary to implement a particular desired functionality.

The manual operations supported in typical ESAS systems may also include manual cancellation. As the ESAS central server or alternatively a separate admin console is generally configured to subscribe to all security assessments that are published by the endpoints an administrator may readily review all active assessments i.e. those which have a TTL value that is unexpired . In some cases the administrator may wish to cancel an active security assessment and have the responses implemented by the endpoints in response to that assessment rolled back.

The reasons for cancelling the assessment may vary but generally the administrator will cancel a security assessment because it is no longer relevant. This situation will typically result from one of two scenarios. In the first scenario the administrator reviews a security assessment and generally after performing some investigation believes the detected security incident which triggered the security assessment is a false positive and thus the resulting assessment is not correct. In the second scenario the administrator reviews the security assessment but in this case after performing the investigation determines that the security incident detected by the endpoint is a true positive. However the administrator is able to fix or resolve the security issue at hand that caused the security assessment to be generated. In both cases the administrator is provided with an ability to manually cancel the security assessment and roll back the associated responses that may have been taken by the endpoints.

The information collected by the manual cancellation GUI is typically collected and logged by the ESAS central server for auditing or other analytical or forensic purposes. For example the information pertaining to false positives may be correlated with other information and used in some cases to improve the accuracy and reliability of detection of security incidents by endpoints. In this manner a learning system may be implemented that utilizes the user feedback provided via the manual cancellations.

When a security assessment has been manually cancelled a message is forwarded via the security assessment channel to all the endpoints so that any responses taken by those endpoints are rolled back. In addition the endpoint that originally published the security assessment that got manually cancelled is suppressed from generating any new security assessments about the same object and detected security incident for a period of time equal to the TTL in the original security assessment.

In stage three the security assessment triggers a variety of respective responsive actions at the receiving endpoints as collectively indicated by reference numeral in accordance with applicable response policy. For example the responses could be similar to those shown in and described in the accompanying text.

As noted above the ESAS central server may be configured to raise an alert for an administrator or security analyst when incoming security assessments are received. In stage four the administrator s review of the incoming security assessment prompts an investigation of the detected security incident i.e. too many connections from a client machine that is described by the security assessment as shown by reference numeral .

In this example after completing the investigation the administrator decides to manually cancel the security assessment as shown at stage five by reference numeral because it is determined that the security incident detected by the edge firewall is a false positive. The ESAS central server sends a manual cancellation message over the security assessment channel to all the endpoints .

At stage as shown by reference numeral when the manual cancellation message is received each endpoint which took a response at stage rolls back the response.

The manual cancellation message is further utilized at stage seven shown by reference numeral to implement suppression of any new security assessments that the edge firewall might otherwise want to generate about the security incident that was the subject of the original security assessment . For example if the edge firewall continues to see the same pattern of activity at the same machine that prompted the publication of the original security assessment in this case too many connections then because the original security assessment is no longer active by reason of the cancellation it would ordinarily fire a new security assessment describing this security incident into the security assessment channel .

But allowing such endpoint behavior to occur could undermine the effectiveness of the manual cancellation and waste resources e.g. administrator s time . Accordingly the suppression feature ensures that an endpoint will not attempt to generate any new security assessments in cases as in the scenario shown in when a prior i.e. original security assessment dealing with the same object and incident had already been generated but then manually cancelled. The period of suppression will typically be equal to the TTL value of that prior security assessment. In this example the generation of new security assessments by firewall will be suppressed for a period of two hours beginning at the time the original security assessment was generated and published by the end firewall .

During this time period the endpoint under suppression is free to generate and publish security assessments in a normal manner for other detected security incidents that deal with different objects and or issues. So for example the edge firewall may generate a new security assessment indicating that a different machine is compromised if it detects too many connections being used. Likewise the edge firewall may issue a new security assessment for the same machine covered by the original security assessment but for a different reason. And once the suppression period expires which in this example is two hours the restrictions are lifted and the edge firewall is free to issue new security assessments about the same security incident described in the original security assessment if it sees the same pattern of activity occurring again.

Using a streamlined fill in form with drop down menus and text entry boxes provided by the manual injection GUI the administrator can readily manually generate a new security assessment that uses the same compact and precise vocabulary as those assessments that are generated in an automated fashion by the endpoints in the ESAS system . That is the manually generated security assessment will typically include assessment category severity fidelity and TTL. In this example the particular values for these properties will be automatically set for a given security assessment based on the input provided by the administrator into the GUI form.

Typically the manual injection GUI is designed to make it easy for the administrator to describe the issue at hand. For example the form presents multiple predefined choices from which the administrator may select and may accommodate the use of high level descriptions of the problem. Alternatively or to supplement the menu choices the manual injection GUI may be arranged to pose leading questions

As shown the manual injection GUI allows the administrator to generate a security assessment about a particular security incident for object types i.e. information technology IT assets representing either a machine or user by selecting one of the appropriate radio buttons or . The name of the IT asset may be selected from a drop down menu which would typically include the names of the IT assets used in an enterprise that are monitored by the ESAS system .

The administrator may select from one of several predefined categories of incidents from the drop down menu . In this example the administrator has selected that the incident relates to abnormal machine behavior. Other choices could include for example unusual or suspicious URLs or issues with users.

More specific issues may also be selected by the administrator from drop down menu . In this example the administrator has indicated that the issue is related to an unidentified entry in the host computer s system registry. Other issues could include for example applications that cannot be shut down unexpected pop ups and the like. A text entry box is provided for the administrator to provide a high level description of the problem which can be utilized for auditing incident correlation and analytical purposes for example.

As noted above the particular details of the security assessment will be automatically generated based on the administrator s input into the manual injection GUI form. In this example accordingly the details for the security assessment as collectively indicated by reference numeral which indicates a compromised machine with high severity medium fidelity and a TTL value of 24 hours are displayed by the manual injection GUI but are grayed out. That is the details are not editable by the administrator unless the Edit Assessment Details check box is selected. In that case the administrator may make manual adjustments to the default security assessment by selecting other details. For example the administrator may wish to change the severity to medium from the default value of high.

Once the administrator has completed the form provided by the manual injection GUI and made any desired adjustments the security assessment is injected into the security assessment channel when the administrator uses the create assessment button . The endpoints in the ESAS system will treat a manually injected security assessment just as it would treat assessments that are generated and published by any endpoint. When the manually injected security assessment is received the endpoints would invoke a response in accordance with the applicable response policies.

Manual injection provides an effective way to supplement the automated detection capabilities of the ESAS system . While such automated detection can be expected to be satisfactory in many cases it is recognized that by being rules based the detection cannot cover one hundred percent of all the potential security incidents and threats to an enterprise. Accordingly an administrator may use a manually injected security assessment to educate the ESAS system about a security incident. This enables the endpoints in the system to responsively trigger actions in accordance with the system s response policies as well as correlate the information from the manually injected security assessment with locally available information at the endpoints which may result in the detection of other incidents.

At the security assessment is created and injected into the security assessment channel using the manual injection GUI shown in and described in the accompanying text. As shown the security assessment includes properties that match those shown in namely that the administrator has identified a compromised machine with high severity medium fidelity and a TTL value of 24 hours.

In this example the subscribing endpoints include the host security endpoint edge firewall and line of business security endpoint . At the third stage in the scenario the subscribing endpoints apply their specific security expertise through the application of their own correlation rules and locally available data and in accordance with the applicable response policies to trigger a response. As collectively indicated by reference numeral a variety of responsive actions are triggered at the endpoints. Specifically the edge firewall blocks access by the compromised machine to resources with the exception of software updates or mission critical access. The line of business endpoint temporarily suspends outgoing e mails and the host security endpoint performs a quick scan of its protected host machines. The ESAS central server logs all security assessments and actions including manually injected security assessments and resulting responses at the endpoints .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

