---

title: Download discovery for web servers
abstract: Facilitating installation of additional functionality on a web server. The method includes at a data store, receiving a request from a client to access programmatic code units. The data store includes programmatic code units. The programmatic code units are configured to provide additional web server functionality when installed at a web server. The client is distinct and separate from the data store. The method further includes, at the data store, providing information about one or more programmatic code units to the client. Input is received from the client selecting one or more programmatic code units to be installed on a web server. The web server is separate and distinct from both the data store and the client. The one or more selected programmatic code units are sent to the web server, where after the one or more selected programmatic code units are installed on the web server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392911&OS=08392911&RS=08392911
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08392911
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080516
---
Modern computing systems have the capability to be interconnected with one another. For example computing system may be connected via various direct cable connections via wired or wireless network connections via interconnected busses and the like. Using network connections computer systems are capable of distributed data sharing and access. Network connected repositories can provide data to connected computer systems.

Some systems that provide data do so using web servers. Web servers can be installed on host computer systems in intranet environments or connected to the Internet to allow computer systems with compatible access applications such as a browser ftp client VoIP client multimedia player client or other client to communicate with the web server on the host computer system.

Some web server software includes basic functionality for enabling host systems to provide data and services. If advanced functionality is desired additional modules and or applications can be installed on the host. For example if database functionality is required a database application can be installed at the host computer system and a module configured to interact with the database can be installed on the web server at the host computer system.

In another example suppose that the web server delivers video content. Previously it was thought that video content should be provided as quickly as possible and cached at a client system so as to be readily available. However recent studies have shown that most viewers only watch a small portion of the video before abandoning the video and selecting another video. If large amounts of data are cached then bandwidth is wasted to provide video content that will not be viewed. Thus the conventional wisdom is that data should be throttled so that video content is provided such that only small portions of the video data are cached. To accomplish the throttling functionality a throttling module may be installed at the web server on the host computer system.

To find modules or applications web site administrators have not previously had an efficient way of finding and selecting modules and applications. Rather the web site administrators had to know which modules or applications were desired and where to find the modules and applications. The web site administrator would then need to download an application or module to the host computer system and install it at the host computer system.

Additionally the host computer systems are often owned and controlled by third parties such as hosting companies such that web server administrators may not have installation rights to directly install applications or modules on the host computer systems. Rather the web server administrator must direct a systems administrator at the hosting company to install the application or module on the host computer system.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

One embodiment includes a method of facilitating installation of additional functionality on a web server. The method includes at a data store receiving a request from a client to access information about programmatic code units. The programmatic code units may be applications or modules. The data store includes programmatic code units. The programmatic code units are configured to provide additional web server functionality when installed at a web server. The client is distinct and separate from the data store. The method further includes at the data store providing information about one or more programmatic code units to the client. Input is received from the client selecting one or more programmatic code units to be installed on a web server. The web server is separate and distinct from both the data store and the client. The one or more selected programmatic code units are sent to the web server where after the one or more selected programmatic code units are installed on the web server.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Some embodiments include functionality for facilitating additions of features to web servers using modules and other software. In particular it may be desirable to add additional functionality to a web server but it may be difficult to locate the appropriate modules. Further a web server administrator may not be aware of modules that are appropriate and installable. Thus embodiments may facilitate locating and installing modules or other software.

Some embodiments include the ability to evaluate profile information and based on the profile information a user is provided with a list of modules or other software that may be appropriate for the web server. The user can then select one or more of the listed modules or other software which causes the selected modules or other software to be installed on a web server. Web server profile information may include information related to one or more of modules already installed on a web server administrators who manage the web server users who use the web server or based on other factors.

Some embodiments may include functionality for facilitating the installation of the modules or other software by user interaction with a client that is separate from the web server itself and is separate from a repository where modules and other software are stored. In particular a repository may provide information to a client machine about modules or other software available at the repository for installation on the client. The client can then display a listing of available modules or other software to a user. The user can then select modules to install. The modules can then be installed on the web server. Installation may be automatic without additional user intervention by the repository interacting directly with the web server or by the client acting as an intermediary for providing selected modules to the web server.

Referring now to example environment is illustrated. In the example environment a web server is connected to a client and a repository . An administrator of the web server may communicate with the web server through the client . The repository includes modules and other software that may be installed on the web server .

Illustrating now various features and functionality of some embodiments an administrator of the web server interacting with the web server through a client may be able to specify features to be installed on the web server . Installation of the features maybe facilitated using profile information about the web server . For example profile information may be sent from the client to the repository . The repository can then provide feature information based on the profile information . The feature information may include information regarding modules or other software available from the repository that can be installed on the web server .

Installation can occur in one embodiment by the repository providing the module or other software directly to the web server without first providing it to the client . In an alternative embodiment a module or other software can be provided to the client where it can then be sent to and installed on the web server . In some embodiments the client and web server may be installed on the same physical machine but may nonetheless be separate computing entities. In other embodiments the client and web server may be installed on different physical machines.

Illustrating now additional details about the profile information the profile information may include various forms of information and information from a number of different sources. For example in one embodiment the profile information includes information about modules and or other software installed at the web server . In some of these embodiments the profile information may be sent directly from the web server to the repository . Further in some of the embodiments where profile information includes information about modules and or other software installed at the web sever profile information may be sent additionally or alternatively from the client to the repository .

Profile information specifying modules and applications installed at the web server may be used by the repository to determine what feature information to send the client . For example the repository may include in feature information information related to updates to software or modules installed at the web server . Additionally or alternatively the repository may include feature information about modules or other software that provides additional functionality to modules and other software installed at the web server . Further still the repository may include feature information about modules that are commonly installed at web servers including modules or software similar to the modules or other software installed the web server .

The profile information may additionally or alternatively include information about administrators managing the web server . For example an administrator may create an account with the repository . The administrator may then log in through the client to the repository . Profile information stored at the repository about the administrator can be used to select modules or other software of the interest to the administrator for installation on the web server . The profile information that includes information about an administrator of the web server may gather information based on a number of different factors and from a number of different sources. For example an administrator may select categories of interest where the category information may then be included in the profile information .

Alternatively or additionally profile information may include information based on an administrator s previous interaction with the repository . For example if an administrator has selected certain modules or other software for download and installation related modules or other software may be identified as being of possible interest to the administrator by using profile information that logs an administrators previous modules or other software selections.

In an alternative embodiment profile information may include additionally or alternatively information about users of the web server . Such profile information may include locations from which users typically access the web server types of connections used by users to access the web server types of content requested from the web server etc. For example if a large number of users in a particular geographical location attempt to access the web server the profile information may include a notation so indicating. When an administrator accesses the repository the repository may suggest that modules using certain cultural language packs be installed by the administrator on the web server . Similarly if using the profile information it can be determined that users request large amounts of video data from the web server the repository may suggest the use of a throttling module that can be installed at the web server to at conserve network bandwidth.

The repository may send the feature information organized in a number of different fashions. For example the feature information may be sent to the client in the form of a web page with a particular layout. The layout of the webpage may organize suggested modules or other software according to a given priority or organization. For example modules may be organized according to popularity based on other administrators reviews or number of downloads of a given module. Alternatively or additionally modules may be organized according to relevance based on modules already installed at the web server or other profile information .

The feature information may further include additional information related to features provided by external sources. For example the feature information may include user reviews of modules or other software. The feature information may include blog information where administrators have blogged about the feature. Such blog information may be gathered by Internet search engine functionality or by other linking to the logging information.

As described previously an administrator at the client may cause a module to be installed at the web server . In some embodiments this may be done using a one click interface where the administrator at the client selects a module for installation on the web server . In some embodiments this may occur by an administrator selecting an interactive user interface element caused to be displayed by the feature information . As explained previously the feature information may be included in the form of a web page such that the web page code can specify the display of the interactive user interface element. Interaction with the user interface element may cause the repository to send the module to the web server exclusive of further interaction with the client where it will be installed. In this example the administrator at the client does not have to personally install the module at the web server but rather directs the automatic installation of the module at the web server or directs an administrator of the machine on which the web server is installed to install the module .

The web server may include authentication functionality to determine that an administrator at the client has appropriate rights for installing modules at the web server . For example an administrator at the client may have rights to cause the installation of certain modules at the web server while not having rights to install other modules at the web server . For example if the web server is maintained by a third party that rents access to the administrator at the client then administrator rights for the administrator may be limited based on the rental agreement for the use of the web server . Such agreements may limit bandwidth or functionality.

The following discussion now refers to a number of methods and method acts that may be performed. It should be noted that although the method acts may be discussed in a certain order no particular ordering is necessarily required unless specifically stated or required because an act is dependent on another act being completed prior to the act being performed.

One method may be practiced in a computing environment where the computing environment includes one or more web servers. The method includes acts for facilitating installation of additional functionality on a web server. The method includes receiving a request from a client to access programmatic code units act . For example this may be performed at a data store such as the repository receiving a request from the client in response to administrator interaction at the client . The data store includes programmatic code units such as modules or other software. The programmatic code units are configured to provide additional web server functionality when installed at a web server.

The method further includes an act of providing information about one or more programmatic code units to a client act . For example a data store such the repository may send feature information to the client . As noted previously information about one or more programmatic code units may be provided by sending information in the form of html or other code.

The method further includes receiving input from the client selecting one or more programmatic code units to be installed on a web server act . For example a data store such as the repository may receive input from an administrator at the client . In one embodiment this may be accomplished by receiving input from a user interacting with a user interface element such as a link button or other element.

The method further includes sending the one or more selected programmatic code units to the web server act . The one or more selected programmatic code units are then installed on the web server.

In one embodiment sending the one or more selected programmatic code units to the web server act may include sending the one or more selected programmatic code units to the client. The client then sends to one or more selected programmatic code units to the web server. The one or more selected programmatic code units can then be installed at the server. Notably in some embodiments installation may occur by an administrator at the machine where the web server is installed installing the programmatic code units. In other embodiments the web server may include an application programming interface API accessible by programming at the client allowing the client to send the programmatic code units to the web server which are then automatically installed at the web server through the API.

In one embodiment sending the one or more selected programmatic code units to the web server act includes sending the one or more selected programmatic code units directly to the web server without sending the one or more programmatic code units to the client first. The one or more programmatic code units can then be installed at the web server.

The method may further include determining that to install the one or more programmatic code units at the web server that additional programmatic code units need to be installed at the web server. As a result the method may further include providing an indication to the web server that the additional programmatic code units need to be installed at the web server. For example if programmatic code is selected to be installed that requires a database to be installed at the web server and no database is installed at the web server then an indication can be provided at the web server that a database application needs to be installed at the web server. The additional programmatic code units may be provided from the data store to the web server. Notably the data store may be implemented as a distributed system such that different programmatic units are provided from different physical machines. The additional programmatic code units can then be installed automatically at the web server or by a machine administrator interacting with the machine hosting the web server.

Notably embodiments may be implemented where the web server includes access control rules specific to a user at the client. The access control rules allow installation of the one or more programmatic code units. This may be accomplished in a number of different ways. For example in one embodiment a user can provide appropriate authentication information such as passwords or other tokens that can be used to authenticate the user at the client. Once the user has been authenticated it can be determined that the user has appropriate permissions to cause the installation of the programmatic code units. Additionally users may be limited as to what programmatic code units can be installed. For example as described above the web server may be maintained by a third party service provider. The use of the web server may be governed by a rental agreement that allows certain functionality to be implemented. So long as the user in not requesting that modules that would cause the web server to provide functionality that exceeds the allowed functionality then the requested programmatic code units will be installed on the web server.

The programmatic code units may include various different types of code. For example in one embodiment the programmatic code units may include application code. For example the programmatic code units may include database application or other applications.

In alternative embodiments the programmatic code units may include module code. Modules are code that are implemented as add ons to the web server.

Referring now to a method is illustrated. The method may be practiced in a computing environment including one or more web servers. The method includes acts for updating the web server functionality. The method includes determining a profile for a web server act . For example a profile for web server may be determined. The profile may include information about programmatic code units installed on the web server one or more administrators of the web server users of the web server or other information.

The method further includes based on the profile for the web server determining programmatic code units that may be modules of interest for the web server act . Determining programmatic units that may be modules of interest for the web server may be performed using a number of different acts. For example in some embodiments the profile includes information related to programmatic code units already installed at the web server. A determination may be made to provide information related to updates or programmatic code units providing additional functionality to the already installed programmatic code units.

In some embodiments the profile includes information related to administrators of the web server. As noted previously information about an administrators interests past selections or other information about an administrator may be used to suggest programmatic code units.

The method further includes causing the programmatic code units of interest to be displayed to a user act . The act causing information about the programmatic code units of interest to be displayed to a user may be performed in one example embodiment by sending information to a client computer system where the information can be displayed. For example a repository may send feature information in the form of a web page or other form to the client where the feature information can be displayed to an administrator of a web server .

The method further includes receiving user input indicating that one or more programmatic code units should be installed act . For example an administrator of the web server may interact with selectable user interface elements displayed with the feature information that allows for indicating that one or more programmatic code units should be installed.

The method further includes causing installation of the one or more programmatic code units indicated in the user input at the web server act . As described previously installation may occur is some example embodiments automatically or by a machine administrator interacting with a web server.

Embodiments herein may comprise a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

