---

title: Assigning weights to parts of a document
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for assigning weights to parts of a document. In one aspect, document object is generated for a collection of documents. Weights for the respective portions of the document object model are generated, and a document is ranked in a search engine index, the ranking being based at least in part on the generated weights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538989&OS=08538989&RS=08538989
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08538989
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080208
---
When indexing documents search engines may assign weights to different parts of the documents for ranking documents identified as satisfying a search query. For example a search query word that occurs in the title of a document can be given more weight than if the word occurs in another part of a different document. The heavier weighted document can be ranked higher in a list of returned search results.

As is typical the application of weights to various parts of a document can be performed manually by a user. For example the user can analyze the formatting in a document e.g. text sections font style author etc. to determine an order of importance to each part of the document or format of the document. The determined order of importance can be used to assign a particular weight to each section or portion of the document. The weighted documents can then be indexed according to an assigned weight.

This specification describes a Document Object Model DOM that is a platform and language neutral interface that will allow programs and scripts to dynamically access and update the content structure and style of documents. The document can be further processed and the results of that processing can be incorporated back into the presented page. The DOM can represent an Application Programming Interface API for Hyper Text Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML or other hypertext electronic documents.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of generating a document object model from a collection of structured documents wherein each document has a respective structure the document object model defines a structure of nodes that fits the structures of the documents and nodes of the document object model correspond to portions of the documents. The method further includes obtaining data representing queries for the documents wherein each query includes search terms identifying the portions of the documents containing the search terms and assigning node weights to nodes of the document object model based on a number of search terms contained in the portions of the documents that correspond to the nodes of the document object model. The method can further include associating one or more respective portion weights to one or more portions of a first document in the collection of documents each portion weight for a portion being derived from the weight of the corresponding node of the document object model and weighting content found in the portions of the first document in calculating a scoring function for the first document according to the portion weights associated with the portions of the first document.

Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include assigning a higher node weight to the nodes of the document object model if the nodes of the document object model include the search terms contained in the portions of the documents that correspond to the nodes of the document object model and the documents that include the search terms are associated with an impression.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in systems that include a data store configured to store documents in a collection. The systems include one or more computers operable to interact with the user interface device and to generate a document object model wherein portions of the document object model correspond to portions of the documents in the collection. The one or more computers are also operable to generate a document object model from a collection of structured documents wherein each document has a respective structure the document object model defines a structure of nodes that fits the structures of the documents and nodes of the document object model correspond to portions of the documents.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Analyzing a document object model to determine the relevance of one or more documents can result in providing a user with a list of semantically relevant search results. The document object model may also be used to decide which parts of the document to index and which parts not to index. Thus memory space can be conserved in the search index used to retrieve documents.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Weighted scores can be calculated for individual DOM nodes single web pages websites structured documents and other entities. In some implementations the weighted score is an aggregation of all the DOM node weights in a webpage. For example a user can calculate the weighted score by aggregating a combination of individual DOM node scores in the webpage. The weighted scores can be used to determine whether a particular search result is semantically relevant to a search query. In particular a search engine can assign weighted scores e.g. a level of importance to different nodes of one or more documents. The assigned scores can be used to rank the one or more documents relevant in response to a search query submitted by a user.

The system generally includes components for generating document object models obtaining query data generating weights for DOM nodes associating DOM node weights with document portion weights ranking documents and providing the ranked documents to one or more users. In particular the system includes a search engine a document collection client devices and a network . The search engine can be a server system operable to receive one or more documents from the document collection analyze the documents and provide one or more relevant documents to a plurality of client devices e.g. users such as client devices over the network .

In some implementations the search engine receives search queries from a client device and generates relevant search results using a search engine index e.g. using an index of web pages . Search results can include for example lists of web page titles snippets of text extracted from those web pages and hypertext links to those web pages and may be grouped and or ranked into a predetermined number of search results e.g. ten . The search results can for example be ranked by a quality measure and a relevance measure. For example a particular web page can have a quality measure derived from the number of other web pages that are linked to the particular web page and can have an information retrieval score related to how well the query terms match to words in the particular web page. The information retrieval score can be combined with the DOM weight and or quality measure to give a final rank to the particular web page.

The documents in the document collection can include any number of websites and the web pages associated with those websites. For example the documents in the document collection include product pages auction pages review pages web logs or other content accessible using an HTTP protocol. In general the documents in the collection generally match one type of DOM although it is possible to combine several document object models within one collection.

In some implementations the documents in collection include structured documents. In general a structured document is a defined hierarchy of elements and structure rules. Elements can include a table of contents an index chapters sections subsections nodes and so on. Structure rules can be applied to one or more elements. For example a structured document can be described as including a table of contents a series of section headers sections subsections appendices and an index. A structure rule can dictate which order the above document portions are structured and which elements can be inserted between the existing elements for example. Furthermore within each of the sections and subsections a number of additional structure rules can be defined. For example one structure rule describes a section as being made up of a chapter title and a preamble followed by a series of subsections.

In some implementations the structured document is an HTML document. HTML documents can be implemented using any number of structure rules. Structure rules for HTML documents include definitions for which elements can contain other elements. An example of a structure rule can be express how to determine whether one element is contained within another element. For example one element contains another element if a start tag and end tag of the container completely enclose the contained element. Thus a Head element contains a Title element and the Title element contains a string of characters.

A large number of documents in the document collection can include similar contents e.g. a title a sidebar an index advertisements etc. . In some implementations the document collection includes the similar content structured in a similar format. The similar content and or structure can indicate one or more documents in collection are automatically generated by a content provider e.g. Amazon eBay Blogger . Automatically generated documents can generally be laid out using the DOM created for one type of document structure for example. The system uses the similarity between structured documents to generate a common document object model for one or more documents in the document collection . The system analyzes the DOM and any associated user information to determine semantic relevance for one or more received search queries. The system uses the determined semantic relevance to rank search results for the received search queries. The search engine can send the ranked semantically relevant search results to one or more client devices . User information can include preferences geographical data click logs query logs files to name a few examples. The user information is generally associated with system use and in particular search and internet tasks performed by the user.

The client devices include any computing device operable to connect or communicate with content search engine or network using any communication link. At a high level each client device may be operable to execute a search engine and includes an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process and store any appropriate data associated with system . It will be understood that there may be any number of client devices communicably coupled to search engine .

As shown in the search engine includes the search engine index a weight generation engine a document object model engine and a user activity log . The search engine index is generally used to extract information about a document e.g. a webpage in the document collection such as the words the document contains and the location of words in the document. Additionally the search engine index can extract one or more weights for specific words or document object model elements or sections for comparison purposes. For example the search engine index extracts weights to determine relevance between a stored entity and a search result based on the DOM node weight. The DOM node weight includes the weight of one particular node in the document such as an image a table a title a heading etc. In some implementations the search engine index extracts weights to determine relevance between a stored entity and a search result based on the DOM section weight. The DOM section weight includes the weight of one particular section in the document such as a header section a footer section an advertisement section a body section etc. In general sections in a DOM include one or more nodes which contain other nodes. In some implementations the search engine index extracts weights to determine relevance between a stored entity and a search result based on the word weight within a DOM node or DOM section. The word weight includes a user defined weight for one or more key words or phrases within any node or section in a particular document.

In some implementations the search engine index can collect parse rank and store the extracted information for later retrieval. For example the search engine index can store extracted information for natural language documents video audio graphics and other media included in documents in the document collection . In some implementations one or more indices external to search engine are utilized to collect parse rank or store the extracted information in addition to the search engine index .

In the depicted example the search engine index includes ranked documents . The ranked documents can for example include one or more search results produced from a user entered search query. In some implementations when a large number of search results exist for a particular query the search engine ranks the search results using a relevance score. The relevance score may pertain to an activity log a document object model element an impression the location of a term in a website the date and so on. For example the search engine can apply and use a relevance score e.g. relevant to one or more search query topics to sort search results such that the pages most likely to be meaningful to the user appear at the top of the ranked list.

In some implementations the search engine incorporates an inverted index when evaluating a search query. The inverted index can be used to quickly locate documents containing user entered query terms and rank those documents based on relevance to the query terms. In general the inverted index stores a list of the documents containing each word. The search engine can retrieve the matching documents quickly using direct access to find the documents associated with each word in the query.

The weight generation engine can generate weights for one or more DOM nodes. More specifically the weight generation engine can generate weights that correspond to semantic importance of one or more DOM nodes. For example a search term located in the title node of a particular document can indicate the document includes more semantically relevant information than an advertising node e.g. an online ad with the same search term located within the advertisement. As such the weight generation engine can assign a higher weighting to the title element and a lesser weighting to the advertisement element in a document object model for example. In general weight criteria can be determined from a location of the one or more search terms a format of the one or more search terms and a frequency count of the one or more search terms within the DOM. In some implementations links within the documents can carry more weight if the text around the links is concerned with the targeted topic or search term s .

The weight generation engine can use various weighting mechanisms including but not limited to linear algorithms logarithmic algorithms fuzzy logic text categorization TC term frequency TF inverse document frequency IDF and inverse word frequency IWF . Other weighting mechanisms can be used. For example a weight can be passed from one document to another document through a forward linking relationship. In particular weights can be generated from a combination of rating or ranking information e.g. from other users and one or more links from other documents. The weights for the linking items may in turn be dependent on the links from other items or ranking votes from other users. The passing of weights from one document to another document through forward linking relationships and the increasing of a weight for a document if it is pointed to by other documents having high weights is generally exemplified by the well known Google PageRank system.

The document object model engine can generate document object models for one or more document collections. For example the DOM engine can analyze the documents in the document collection and build one or more document object models from the content structure and style of the documents. Further the DOM engine can build and associate a DOM with a particular document type. For example the document object model engine can receive a collection of web pages offering products such as eBay.com and can associate the document collection with a first document object model . In some implementations the first document object model includes elements such as a product title a product description a product review a product price etc. that describe the portions and or sections of the document. The document object model engine can build other document object models pertaining to other document collection types.

In some implementations the weight generation engine associates DOM node weights to elements within one or more structured documents in collection . For example each DOM node weight can be determined using the weight given to a particular document element. For example if a structured document includes the title element as the highest weighted element the corresponding DOM node title can be assigned the highest weighted node in the DOM.

The weight generation engine can also analyze one or more user activity logs to determine actions taken on a document. For example the weight generation engine can count the number of instances of search terms for each portion of the document. Further the weight generation engine can determine the user s document or link selection non selection or other action performed on the document.

The user activity logs are stored records corresponding to actions taken on document collection . In general the user activity log includes data representing queries and impressions on document collection . In particular the user activity log is a data store that can for example contain data representing queries for structured documents including one or more search terms. For example the user activity log can store click logs and query logs . The click logs and the query logs generally include data related to previous search session queries. Different types of click logs and query logs can be identified. The query logs generally store queries submitted by users. The click logs identify content retrieved in response to the stored queries. In particular the click logs can be used to identify a number of times content from a particular portion of a DOM node is reviewed e.g. clicked on or selected in response to the queries.

The network facilitates wireless or wireline communication between search engine and any local or remote computers including one or more clients . The network may be all or a portion of a secured network. In another example the network may be a VPN merely between the search engine and the client across a wireline or wireless link. While illustrated as a single or continuous network the network may be logically divided into various sub nets or virtual networks without departing from the scope of this specification so long as at least a portion of the network may facilitate communications between the search engine and at least one client . In some implementations the network is a public network e.g. the Internet .

Turning to the operation of the system the documents in the document collection are retrieved or received by the search engine . Next the search engine extracts the document structure from one or more of the received documents in the document collection . For example the document object model engine can extract the structure and generate a DOM based on the structure of a combination of web pages. In some implementations several document object models are generated each corresponding to a different document form. For example large retail sites such as Amazon.com and Overstock.com automatically architect a large portion of websites e.g. product pages auction pages review pages etc. with a similar pattern. The system can use the pattern recognition techniques to generate the DOM corresponding to the document form or structure used in the similar websites.

After one or more document object models are generated the nodes in the models can be weighted according to importance. The importance may pertain to semantics formatting search terms impressions document section statistics and other factors. In some implementations the search engine automatically applies weights using the weight generation engine . As shown the weight generation engine can access data from the document object model engine and the user activity log to apply meaningful weights to the document object models and . As an example the search engine can examine the user click log and the user query log to determine the number of times that words from a portion of the document object model have been previously queried and thus led to a user clicking on a particular document. In some implementations a system user can intuitively assign weights to the document object model nodes. One such example can include the user assigning a higher weight to a product description or product title than any other node in the DOM.

In some implementations automatic weight determination and weight adjustment includes processing the user click logs and the query logs to identify statistical search patterns based on the click logs and the query logs . A search session can then be compared to the statistical search patterns. Content items responsive to one or more queries of the search session can be identified and a ranking of the content items is adjusted based on the comparison.

In some implementations the search engine analyzes anchor text corresponding to a webpage document to determine a weighting. For example the search engine uses content based features that generally indicate the structure of the DOM. The content based features can include aspects of DOM format such as query matches to anchor text in an HTML page.

After assigning weights to the document object model nodes the search engine index can extract information about a document such as the words the document contains and the location of the words as well as any weight for specific words or sections. The weight can be used in indexing scoring or ranking documents for a particular collection of web pages. In some implementations the search engine index is used to rank documents based on the predetermined weightings of document object model nodes.

At some point the users can submit a search query to the search engine over the network for example. The query can include one or more search terms and the search engine can identify and optionally rank documents based on document object model element weights. For example the search engine can count the number of times search terms were found in each section of the document object model based on the search query. Further the search engine can analyze which sections of the DOM led to more or fewer clicks on documents in the document collection . For example some document object model sections are more likely to be clicked on than other sections. As is the case when comparing a footer section less clicks to a title section more clicks . The likelihood of selecting one document object model section over another can be analyzed by the search engine . The analysis can be used to provide an enhanced relevance of search results to the user. For example the search results analyzed for location in the document can provide search results with semantic relevance rather than simply matched text or matched formatting.

After the search engine analyzes the document collections relevant to a search query the search engine index can rank the documents. Various ranking techniques can be used to rank the documents. For example the search engine index can employ ranking techniques including standard competition ranking modified competition ranking dense ranking ordinal ranking and fractional ranking. Other ranking algorithms and techniques can be used. In general the ranked documents can be bundled and presented to the user e.g. according to the rank .

In some implementations the search query additionally includes one or more weight criteria which require that the one or more search terms are located in a section selected from a header section a caption section an abstract section a footnote section a summary section or a title section. For example the user may indicate search terms and a condition of finding the term in the summary section of the document. As such the search engine can weight the summary element as the highest element in the document object model. The search expression may also include one or more weight criteria which require that one or more search terms have a format that is different from a common format of the candidate document. The format may be selected from bold italic color font size and font type. Furthermore the search expression may include one or more weight criteria which require that a search term be present in the candidate document at least once more than once or at least a minimum number of times.

As shown in the structure of the DOM includes a document type of HTML an HTML node Head an HTML Head sub node Title a sub node Text and a sub node Navigation Menu . The HTML document also includes a node Body with a sub node Heading and a nested sub node Text . The Body node also includes a Paragraph sub node a nested sub node Text and a nested sub node Footer . The HTML document further includes an Advertisements node with sub nodes Table and Image . Other HTML nodes sub nodes attributes and text are also added to the DOM but are not illustrated in .

The structure of DOM includes a document type of XML an XML node Head an XML Head sub node Title and a sub node Text . The XML document also includes a node Body with a sub node Heading and a nested sub node Text . The Body node also includes a Paragraph sub node a nested sub node Text and a nested sub node Footer .

The two document object models and include some overlapping nodes. For example the head node and the body node are included in both models. Since the nodes represent the same sections in two different document types the nodes may receive the same weighting factor in the weight generation engine for example. In some implementations the search engine can use pattern recognition techniques to automatically identify nodes that overlap in several document object models. For example the search engine can classify an unknown document as it enters the search engine by comparing the document object model nodes of the unknown document against document object model nodes stored in the search engine . The identified overlap may be used to indicate which document object model the document belongs. For example the user may assign the document to the document object model that overlaps the majority of the nodes. In some implementations a document may not fit the previously generated document object models in the search engine . In such a case the document can invoke the search engine to generate a new document object model.

In some implementations the search engine generates a document object model using common nodes found in several documents in the document collection . For example the document object model generally includes only those sections found in one particular document collection. The document object model can be as simple as a title node a body node and a reference node. The simplified document object model can be used by the system for example to rank search results based on whether the search terms existed in the title body or references of each search result.

The system generates a document object model from a collection of structured documents . For example the search engine generates the DOM based on the content in one or more structured documents. The DOM generally defines a structure of nodes that fits the structures of the documents. Nodes of the DOM correspond to portions of the documents of the document collection .

The system obtains data representing queries for the structured documents . For example the search engine obtains query data from the user activity log . The query data includes search terms click logs and query logs . The data representing queries can include impressions associated with one or more structured documents. In some implementations an impression can occur through an action by a user making a selection on a link to the structured document. Selecting the link presents the document to the user for viewing and may add to the impression count for the selected document. In some implementations an impression can occur if the user enables an automatic setting such as a toolbar to view only portions of a document. For example if the user enables the toolbar to display the document link the title and the abstract the toolbar can automatically report what portions of the document the user actually chose to display. Other impression logging techniques are possible.

Upon retrieving query data for the structured documents the system identifies the portions of the structured documents that contain search terms . For example the weight generation engine uses data in the click log and query log to determine where in the document one or more relevant query terms are located. The relevant query terms generally correspond to a user entered query. The weight generation engine also determines if a click activity or an impression activity occurs as a result of the previous user entered query.

The system assigns node weights to nodes of the DOM based on a number of search terms contained in the portions of the documents . For example weights can be assigned to each document object model node such as the head node the body node the advertisement node or any sub node below these nodes. Generally the head node is heavily weighted since it includes the title where the title can provide high semantic relevance to the search query. Similarly the advertisement node may be lightly weighted since ads rarely have semantic importance in a search query result.

In some implementations assigning node weights includes assigning weights for a group of nodes such as assigning a weight for the entire document. The weight generation engine can generate weights for one or more document object model nodes by monitoring the user activity log . For example the search engine can count the number of instances of clicks for respective portions of the document object model by accessing the click log and the query log . Further the search engine can use the count values to apply a weight for one or more portions of the document object model based on the user activity log .

In some implementations the search engine accesses the query log and a snippet of a document that was previously presented in response to the query. Finding an occurrence of one or more search terms within the document snippet invokes the weight generation engine to increase the weight of one or more nodes that include the snippet content e.g. a search term . In some implementations the search engine examines the query logs and the snippet that was shown for the document. For example if a particular word occurs in the snippet the occurrence can lead to increasing the count for the DOM node with an otherwise small weight.

The system associates one or more respective document portion weights to one or more portions of a first document . In particular the system derives a document portion weight from the weight of a corresponding node of the DOM. For example if a DOM node e.g. a title node is weighted heavily then the corresponding document portion e.g. a title is weighted just as heavily. Further if a particular search term entered by a user is found in the document title the system can increase the document portion weight by increasing the weight of the title node in the DOM. For example if the search term is found in the document the weight generation engine determines where a search term is located within the document and assigns an added weight to the corresponding DOM node or nodes. In the event that an impression of the document resulted then a larger weight is added to the corresponding DOM node.

The system weights content found in the portions of the first structured document in calculating a scoring function for the first document . In some implementations the weight generation engine can apply a weight to a DOM node by ranking each node according to a number of instances of clicks that occurred in relation to that node. For example the search term can appear equally in the title node and the footer node . However the user may click the result based on the title node more often than clicking the result based on the footer node . For instance if the title node includes three hits and the footer node includes one hit the title node is ranked higher than the footer node in this example. In this fashion the search engine can apply the greatest weight to the respective part of the document with the highest number of instances of clicks.

Once the weights are generated for the document object model nodes the documents can be ranked in the search engine based on the generated weights. For example the search engine can numerically order the documents from highest weight to lowest weight or visa versa. In some implementations ranking algorithms can be used in addition to the generated weights to determine the presented document order.

Ranking adjustments can be applied to increase or decrease the ranking score of a particular search result. The adjustments in this example are based on whether a search term is located within a document object model node. For example if the search term is located within the title section of a search result the rank of the result can be increased. Similarly if the search term is located within an advertisement section in the document the rank of the search result may be decreased. For simplicity the scale used in the example 400 ranks search results from 1 10. For example a higher ranking number is better than a lowered number ranking. Other scaling systems are possible.

As shown in the query and ranking table queries Q Q Q and Q are received during a first search session . For the first query Q the content items C and C are for example respectively ranked 8 and 8.5 in a list of search results for the query Q. In this query none of the search terms are found within the title section or the advertisement section. Because the query Q search terms are not included in the title node or the advertisement node the rankings of the content items C and C are not adjusted.

For the second query Q the content items C and C are for example respectively ranked 9 and 7 in a list of search results for the query Q where one or more query Q search terms exist in the title section for C and the advertisement section for C. Accordingly the rankings of the content item C can be increased to 9 while the content item C can be lowered to 7.

For the third query Q the content items C and C are for example respectively ranked 6 and 3 in a list of search results for the query Q where one or more query Q search terms exist in the title section for C. Accordingly the rankings of the content items C can be adjusted to account for the relevance. For example the rank of C can be increased to 7 since the query Q search terms exist in the document title section.

For the fourth query Q the content items C and C are for example respectively ranked 4 and 6.5 in a list of search results for the query Q where one or more query Q search terms exist in the advertisement section for C. Accordingly the rankings of the content item C can be adjusted to account for a lack of relevance. For example the rank of C can be decreased to 5.5 since the query Q search terms exist in a less relevant advertisement section of the document.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In some implementations the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device can for example include a hard disk device an optical disk device or some other large capacity storage device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In some implementations the input output device includes one or more network interface devices e.g. an Ethernet card a serial communication device e.g. and RS 232 port and or a wireless interface device e.g. and 802.11 card. In other implementations the input output device includes driver devices configured to receive input data and send output data to other input output devices e.g. keyboard printer and display devices .

Queries can for example be received from client devices that can be implemented on computer systems similar to the computer systems in or . Other implementations however can also be used such as mobile computing devices mobile communication devices set top box television client devices etc.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible program carrier for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The tangible program carrier can be a propagated signal or a computer readable medium. The propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a computer. The computer readable medium is a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter affecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few.

Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. In some implementations the steps in can be executed as a batch process it can be done in a real time manner namely the collection of logs can be done in real time and weights associated with DOM nodes can be update in real time.

