---

title: Method and system for data context service
abstract: The invention relates to a method of performing an oilfield operation. The method steps include extracting context information from a host application associated with an oilfield project, sorting the context information into a plurality of dimensions of relevance, generating at least one search profile for each of the plurality of dimensions of relevance, requesting a plurality of searches using the at least one search profile, receiving one or more oilfield data items resulting from the plurality of searches, and selectively adjusting the oilfield operation based on one or more oilfield data items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09070172&OS=09070172&RS=09070172
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09070172
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from Provisional Patent Application No. 60 968 304 filed Aug. 27 2007.

The present invention relates to techniques for performing oilfield operations relating to subterranean formations having reservoirs therein. More particularly the invention relates to techniques for performing oilfield operations involving an analysis of reservoir operations and their impact on such oilfield operations.

Oilfield operations such as surveying drilling wireline testing completions simulation planning and oilfield analysis are typically performed to locate and gather valuable downhole fluids. Various aspects of the oilfield and its related operations are shown in . As shown in surveys are often performed using acquisition methodologies such as seismic scanners to generate maps of underground structures. These structures are often analyzed to determine the presence of subterranean assets such as valuable fluids or minerals. This information is used to assess the underground structures and locate the formations containing the desired subterranean assets. Data collected from the acquisition methodologies may be evaluated and analyzed to determine whether such valuable items are present and if they are reasonably accessible.

As shown in one or more wellsites may be positioned along the underground structures to gather valuable fluids from the subterranean reservoirs. The wellsites are provided with tools capable of locating and removing hydrocarbons from the subterranean reservoirs. As shown in drilling tools are typically advanced from the oil rigs and into the earth along a given path to locate the valuable downhole fluids. During the drilling operation the drilling tool may perform downhole measurements to investigate downhole conditions. In some cases as shown in the drilling tool is removed and a wireline tool is deployed into the wellbore to perform additional downhole testing.

After the drilling operation is complete the well may then be prepared for production. As shown in wellbore completions equipment is deployed into the wellbore to complete the well in preparation for the production of fluid therethrough. Fluid is then drawn from downhole reservoirs into the wellbore and flows to the surface. Production facilities are positioned at surface locations to collect the hydrocarbons from the wellsite s . Fluid drawn from the subterranean reservoir s passes to the production facilities via transport mechanisms such as tubing. Various equipment may be positioned about the oilfield to monitor oilfield parameters and or to manipulate the oilfield operations.

During the oilfield operations data is typically collected for analysis and or monitoring of the oilfield operations. Such data may include for example subterranean formation equipment historical and or other data. Data concerning the subterranean formation is collected using a variety of sources. Such formation data may be static or dynamic. Static data relates to for example formation structure and geological stratigraphy that define the geological structure of the subterranean formation. Dynamic data relates to for example fluids flowing through the geologic structures of the subterranean formation over time. Such static and or dynamic data may be collected to learn more about the formations and the valuable assets contained therein.

Sources used to collect static data may be seismic tools such as a seismic truck that sends compression waves into the earth as shown in . These waves are measured to characterize changes in the density of the geological structure at different depths. This information may be used to generate basic structural maps of the subterranean formation. Other static measurements may be gathered using core sampling and well logging techniques. Core samples may be used to take physical specimens of the formation at various depths as shown in . Well logging typically involves deployment of a downhole tool into the wellbore to collect various downhole measurements such as density resistivity etc. at various depths. Such well logging may be performed using for example the drilling tool of and or the wireline tool of . Once the well is formed and completed fluid flows to the surface using production tubing as shown in . As fluid passes to the surface various dynamic measurements such as fluid flow rates pressure and composition may be monitored. These parameters may be used to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation.

Sensors may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations. For example sensors in the drilling equipment may monitor drilling conditions sensors in the wellbore may monitor fluid composition sensors located along the flow path may monitor flow rates and sensors at the processing facility may monitor fluids collected. Other sensors may be provided to monitor downhole surface equipment or other conditions. The monitored data is often used to make decisions at various locations of the oilfield at various times. Data collected by these sensors may be further analyzed and processed. Data may be collected and used for current or future operations. When used for future operations at the same or other locations such data may sometimes be referred to as historical data.

The processed data may be used to predict downhole conditions and make decisions concerning oilfield operations. Such decisions may involve well planning well targeting well completions operating levels production rates and other operations and or conditions. Often this information is used to determine when to drill new wells re complete existing wells or alter wellbore production.

Data from one or more wellbores may be analyzed to plan or predict various outcomes at a given wellbore. In some cases the data from neighboring wellbores or wellbores with similar conditions or equipment may be used to predict how a well will perform. There are usually a large number of variables and large quantities of data to consider in analyzing oilfield operations. It is therefore often useful to model the behavior of the oilfield operation to determine the desired course of action. During the ongoing operations the operating conditions may need adjustment as conditions change and new information is received.

Techniques have been developed to model the behavior of various aspects of the oilfield operations such as geological structures downhole reservoirs wellbores surface facilities as well as other portions of the oilfield operation. These techniques are typically implemented in an oilfield user application or workflow. Examples of simulation technique that may be used in these user application or workflow are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 992 519 and WO2004 049216. Other examples of these modeling techniques are shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6 313 837 WO1999 064896 WO2005 122001 US2003 0216897 US2003 0132934 US2005 0149307 and US2006 0197759.

Recent attempts have been made to consider a broader range of data in oilfield operations. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 980 940 to Gurpinar discloses integrated reservoir optimization involving the assimilation of diverse data to optimize overall performance of a reservoir. In another example WO2004 049216 to Ghorayeb discloses an integrated modeling solution for coupling multiple reservoir simulations and surface facility networks. Other examples of such recent attempts are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 230 101 U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 497 U.S. Pat. No. 6 078 869 GB2336008 U.S. Pat. No. 6 106 561 US2006 0184329 U.S. Pat. No. 7 164 990 US2004 0220846 and U.S. Ser. No. 10 586 283. Some simulation techniques involve the use of coupled simulations as described for example in Publication No. US2006 0129366.

Despite the development and advancement of user applications for wellbore modeling and or simulation techniques in oilfield operations currently workers seeking knowledge in the energy industry typically have access to a domain of structured information data in databases or spreadsheets and very limited access to unstructured data reports presentations maps emails web content etc. described above . Various studies indicate approximately twenty percent of data used in most businesses are structured data with the remaining eighty percent being unstructured data commonly appearing in memos notes news user groups chats reports letters surveys white papers marketing material research presentations and Web pages. In energy e.g. oil and gas renewable energies etc. industry more than sixty percent of unstructured data are not managed or used. If the worker uses common search tools for unstructured data such as web content search engines or Electronic Document Management Systems EDMS for searching documents and reports the search results are often unusable because the taxonomy of the search is not relevant to the domain and workflow of the energy industry.

Such search techniques often result in an information overload because far too many results are returned making finding the best information impractical. When important information is found it is often used once and not maintained for other knowledge users of a similar profile role or title to use in future workflows. Users often do not share such information with others within the immediate team who could benefit from the information. Lastly no easy way exists for the user to rank the relative value of the data in conjunction with their workflow role and data. Therefore a need exists to provide techniques capable of performing searches of the oilfield data having both structured and unstructured formats from within a user host application and to return search results that are more relevant to the context of the oilfield project the user host application used by the project and the user using the application.

It would be desirable to have a system capable of extracting context information using configurable search modules to address different context information categories. In some cases it may be desirable to selectively link or couple certain modules so that a combined search profile may be established. In other cases it may be desirable to limit or adjust the scope of the search under user control. It is further desirable that such techniques be capable of one of more of the following among others activating the search from within an application selectively applying the search results for an application and sharing the search results between different projects or workflows.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method of performing an oilfield operation. The method steps include extracting context information from a host application associated with an oilfield project sorting the context information into a plurality of dimensions of relevance generating at least one search profile for each of the plurality of dimensions of relevance requesting a plurality of searches using the at least one search profile receiving one or more oilfield data items resulting from the plurality of searches and selectively adjusting the oilfield operation based on one or more oilfield data items.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for performing an oilfield operation. The system includes a host application associated with an oilfield project a context data engine operatively connected to the host application wherein the context data engine is configured to extract context information from the host application and sort the context information into a plurality of dimensions of relevance a plurality of appliances configured to perform a plurality of searches based on at least one search profile generated from the plurality of dimensions of relevance and apparatus for adjusting the oilfield operation based on one or more oilfield data items resulting from at least one of the plurality of searches.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium storing instructions for performing an oilfield operation. The instructions include functionality to extract context information from a host application associated with an oilfield project sort the context information into a plurality of dimensions of relevance generate at least one search profile for each of the plurality of dimensions of relevance request a plurality of searches using the at least one search profile and receive one or more oilfield data items resulting from the plurality of searches.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified figures and described in detail below. In describing the preferred embodiments like or identical reference numerals are used to identify common or similar elements. The figures are not necessarily to scale and certain features and certain views of the figures may be shown exaggerated in scale or in schematic in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

In response to the received sound vibration s representative of different parameters such as amplitude and or frequency of the sound vibration s . The data received is provided as input data to a computer of the seismic recording truck and responsive to the input data the recording truck computer generates a seismic data output record . The seismic data may be further processed as desired for example by data reduction.

A surface unit is used to communicate with the drilling tool and offsite operations. The surface unit is capable of communicating with the drilling tool to send commands to drive the drilling tool and to receive data therefrom. The surface unit is preferably provided with computer facilities for receiving storing processing and analyzing data from the oilfield . The surface unit collects data output generated during the drilling operation. Computer facilities such as those of the surface unit may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield and or at remote locations.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned throughout the reservoir rig oilfield equipment such as the downhole tool or other portions of the oilfield for gathering information about various parameters such as surface parameters downhole parameters and or operating conditions. These sensors S preferably measure oilfield parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions and other parameters of the oilfield operation.

The information gathered by the sensors S may be collected by the surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by the sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in a database and all or select portions of the data may be selectively used for analyzing and or predicting oilfield operations of the current and or other wellbores.

Data outputs from the various sensors S positioned about the oilfield may be processed for use. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be housed in separate databases or combined into a single database.

The collected data may be used to perform analysis such as modeling operations. For example the seismic data output may be used to perform geological geophysical reservoir engineering and or production simulations. The reservoir wellbore surface and or process data may be used to perform reservoir wellbore or other production simulations. The data outputs from the oilfield operation may be generated directly from the sensors S or after some preprocessing or modeling. These data outputs may act as inputs for further analysis.

The data is collected and stored at the surface unit . One or more surface units may be located at the oilfield or linked remotely thereto. The surface unit may be a single unit or a complex network of units used to perform the necessary data management functions throughout the oilfield . The surface unit may be a manual or automatic system. The surface unit may be operated and or adjusted by a user.

The surface unit may be provided with a transceiver to allow communications between the surface unit and various portions or regions of the oilfield or other locations. The surface unit may also be provided with or functionally linked to a controller for actuating mechanisms at the oilfield . The surface unit may then send command signals to the oilfield in response to data received. The surface unit may receive commands via the transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely and make the decisions to actuate the controller. In this manner the oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected to optimize fluid recovery rates or to maximize the longevity of the reservoir and its ultimate production capacity. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

The wireline tool may be operatively linked to for example the geophones stored in the computer of the seismic recording truck of . The wireline tool may also provide data to the surface unit . As shown data output is generated by the wireline tool and collected at the surface. The wireline tool may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey of the subterranean formation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in the production tool or associated equipment such as the Christmas tree gathering network surface facilities and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

While only simplified wellsite configurations are shown it will be appreciated that the oilfield may cover a portion of land sea and or water locations that hosts one or more wellsites. Production may also include injection wells not shown for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While depict tools used to measure properties of an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The oilfield configuration in are intended to provide a brief description of an example of an oilfield usable with the present invention. Part or all of the oilfield may be on land and or sea. Also while a single oilfield measured at a single location is depicted the present invention may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

While depict monitoring tools used to measure properties of an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as mines aquifers or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing properties such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological structures may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the subterranean formation and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The oilfield configuration in is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Part or all of the oilfield may be on land and or sea. Also while a single oilfield at a single location is depicted the present invention may be used with any combination of one or more oilfields one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites. Additionally while only one wellsite is shown it will be appreciated that the oilfield may cover a portion of land that hosts one or more wellsites. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

The respective graphs of contain static measurements that describe the physical characteristics of the formation. These measurements may be compared to determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. In this manner the plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Data plots are examples of static data plots that may be generated by the data acquisition tools respectively. Static data plot is a seismic two way response time and may be the same as the seismic trace of . Static plot is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation similar to the core sample of . Static data plot is a logging trace similar to the well log of . Data plot is a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time similar to the graph of . Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information other measurement data and other parameters of interest.

The subterranean formation has a plurality of geological structures . As shown the formation has a sandstone layer a limestone layer a shale layer and a sand layer . A fault line extends through the formation. The static data acquisition tools are preferably adapted to measure the formation and detect the characteristics of the geological structures of the formation.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures are depicted it will be appreciated that the formation may contain a variety of geological structures. Fluid may also be present in various portions of the formation . Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formation and or its underlying structures. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations along the formation it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more location across one or more oilfields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be evaluated. Typically seismic data displayed in the static data plot from the data acquisition tool is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formation . Core data shown in static plot and or log data from the well log is typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the geological structures of the subterranean formation . Production data from the production graph is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics.

Each wellsite has equipment that forms a wellbore into the earth. The wellbores extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to the processing facility .

Wellbore production equipment extends from a wellhead of wellsite and to the reservoir to draw fluid to the surface. The wellsite is operatively connected to the surface network via a transport line . Fluid flows from the reservoir through the wellbore and onto the surface network . The fluid then flows from the surface network to the process facilities .

As further shown in sensors S are located about the oilfield to monitor various parameters during oilfield operations. The sensors S may measure for example pressure temperature flow rate composition and other parameters of the reservoir wellbore surface network process facilities and or other portions or regions of the oilfield operation. These sensors S are operatively connected to a surface unit for collecting data therefrom. The surface unit may be for example similar to the surface unit of .

One or more surface units may be located at the oilfield or linked remotely thereto. The surface unit may be a single unit or a complex network of units used to perform the necessary data management functions throughout the oilfield . The surface unit may be a manual or automatic system. The surface unit may be operated and or adjusted by a user. The surface unit is adapted to receive and store data. The surface unit may also be equipped to communicate with various oilfield equipment not shown . The surface unit may then send command signals to the oilfield in response to data received or modeling performed.

As shown in the surface unit has computer facilities such as memory controller processor and display unit for managing the data. The data is collected in memory and processed by the processor for analysis. Data may be collected from the oilfield sensors S and or by other sources. For example oilfield data may be supplemented by historical data collected from other operations or user inputs. Oilfield data may also be referred to as data items which may include a piece of data related to the oilfield meta data associated with oilfield data structured data unstructured data 

The analyzed data e.g. based on modeling performed may then be used to make decisions. A transceiver not shown may be provided to allow communications between the surface unit and the oilfield . The controller may be used to actuate mechanisms at the oilfield via the transceiver and based on these decisions. In this manner the oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans are adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

To facilitate the processing and analysis of data simulators may be used to process the data for modeling various aspects of the oilfield operation. Specific simulators are often used in connection with specific oilfield operations such as reservoir or wellbore simulation. Data fed into the simulator s may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. Simulation through one or more of the simulators may be repeated or adjusted based on the data received.

As shown the oilfield operation is provided with wellsite and non wellsite simulators. The wellsite simulators may include a reservoir simulator a wellbore simulator and a surface network simulator . The reservoir simulator solves for hydrocarbon flow through the reservoir rock and into the wellbores. The wellbore simulator and surface network simulator solves for hydrocarbon flow through the wellbore and the surface network of pipelines. As shown some of the simulators may be separate or combined depending on the available systems.

The non wellsite simulators may include process and economics simulators. The processing unit has a process simulator . The process simulator models the processing plant e.g. the process facilities where the hydrocarbon s is are separated into its constituent components e.g. methane ethane propane etc. and prepared for sales. The oilfield is provided with an economics simulator . The economics simulator models the costs of part or the entire oilfield throughout a portion or the entire duration of the oilfield operation. Various combinations of these and other oilfield simulators may be provided.

As shown in the host application may include a three dimensional 3D display which depicts a wellbore penetrating a subterranean formation for extracting fluid from an underground reservoir. The host application may also include a data log showing various geophysical parameters obtained from various sensors disposed about the wellbore the subterranean formation the underground reservoir or any other portion of the oilfield. In one or more embodiments of the invention a host application may be a geoscience application used for reservoir engineering where a user e.g. a geoscientist may need to verify information from the data log by searching or otherwise accessing different sources of data not shown .

The host application corresponds to the host application as shown in and above. The host application may be used by the project not shown as part of a workflow such as the workflow . The workflow may include multiple host applications executed in a pre determined order to perform the oilfield operation associated with the project not shown .

The workflow may be a current workflow where the associated host application is being executed or a previous workflow of the project not shown completed in the past. The workflow may be associated with a workflow name a role of the workflow and a workflow date. The workflow date may relate to a date when the workflow is performed. The user may be a member of the project not shown and be associated with a title and or role for the project not shown .

In addition the project not shown may be associated with a project name a role of the project a project location a project date and or an object such as the object . The project date may relate to a starting date a current date or a scheduled date of the oilfield operation. The object may be a wellbore a subterranean formation a underground reservoir or any other portion of an oilfield such as depicted in and above. The object may be associated with an object location an object date an object name a serial number or other identifications of the object. The object date may relate to a event associated with the object such as a date of geological survey drilling completion production etc.

The application programming interface provides functionality to configure and activate the context service engine to obtain search results based on context information associated with the oilfield operation project such as the first project and or the second project .

The context service engine may be coupled to multiple context appliances such as the spatial context appliance the object context appliance the profile context appliance the analog context appliance and the time frame context appliance . Each of the context appliances is configured to provide functionality for obtaining search results based on a corresponding context information category such as spatial context the object context profile context analog context and time frame context. In one or more embodiments of the invention a context information category is referred to as a dimension of relevance.

In some examples one or more of these context appliances may be combined into a generic system that performs the functionality of one or more of the context appliances as a single system. Further one or more context appliances may be combined substituted or not included additional context appliances may be configured and the configuration may be performed statically dynamically or by the user .

The evaluation may be performed as a distance ranking using a computer heuristic. For example the search results presented in the spatial context search result page include search results titled USGS Southwell Shale light sand report Marathon Study of the Lower Galveston Basin B. McKinney Obs Report TE 25 East Timballer Island Sediment Restoration Phase 1 and SL 1366 Well Review Information . These search results are obtained based on a current context Within 30 k of 29 45 47 N 95 21 47 W shown in the current context field which describes a geographical region within a 30 kilometer distance from a location of interest specified as 29 45 47 N 95 21 47 W . The location of interest may be the project location the object location or other location of interest within the oilfield operation project. Each of the search results is obtained based on the current context due to at least one associated geographical location falling into the geographical region centered around the location of interest. Each search candidate may be selected because the geographical location is tied to the title the context or another aspect of the search candidate.

The spatial context search result page also includes relevance measure e.g. relevance scores of 96 94 90 84 76 and an action item e.g. open load view for each of the search results. The relevance measure may be a measure of geographical proximity of the associated geographical location to the location of interest. The scope of the search may be configured by the search aperture . For example the distance of 30 kilometer may be adjusted by different settings of the search aperture .

As shown in action item for each of the search results may be presented as selectable options for the user. For example the search results and are depicted with a OPEN action the search results and are depicted with a VIEW action and the search result is shown with a LOAD action. In another example more than one available action may be selected for a research result. Although the action items depicted in only include open load and view actions those skilled in the art will recognize that other action items may be implemented for acting on the selected results. For example a selected result may be saved as spreadsheet file text file Keyhole Markup Language KML file Extensible Markup Language XML file or other applicable formats. Furthermore a selected result may be sent for example to an email recipient.

In one or more embodiments of the invention interfaces between the host application and the context service engine may be defined for operations such as view load save send to and open. Send to refers to being able to gather all pertinent information related to selected data items and providing this information to a target application interface via a menu at which point the information will be reformatted and appropriately used by the target application. Various implementations of these interfaces can then be registered with the host application and will show up as options in the user interface for example depicted in . If the user selects one of these options e.g. view load save send to and open the host application extracts the selected data from the current search result set and activates the registered implementation of the interface with the selected data. The implementation can then perform its desired operation e.g. Save to or Send to a desired file format etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention each of the search results may be selected for further actions which may be activated by the action buttons or . For example the search results and are shown as being selected indicated by the check marks next to relevance scores of the relevance measure . The further actions may be a mapping function or an archiving function . Although only two action buttons are illustrated in those skilled in the art will recognize any number of action buttons may be implemented for activating any number of further actions.

As described above the search results presented in each of the search result pages in may be obtained by corresponding context appliance. The object context search result page presents search results obtained based on the object context appliance . As an example the object context appliance obtains search results by evaluating a relevance measure of a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats with respect to a name a serial number or an identification of a wellsite a wellbore a process facility a portion of the subterranean formation a portion of the reservoir or any other portion of the oilfield. In one example the evaluation may be performed as a word pattern matched ranking using a computer heuristic.

The profile context search result page presents search results obtained by the profile context appliance . As an example the profile context appliance obtains search results by evaluating a relevance measure of a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats with respect to a name of the project a role of the project a name of the workflow a role of the workflow a title of the user a role of the user a name of the host application or a role of the host application. The evaluation may be performed as a word pattern matching of names e.g. of the project the workflow or the host application in conjunction with a pre determined relationship associated with a user title or roles e.g. of the project the workflow the user or the host application using a computer heuristic. For example a title geophysicist may be associated using a pre determined relationship with a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats having word pattern geophysical survey report in a title content or other attribute of the search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats to yield a high relevance measure. The profile context appliance has also the ability to identify and display the most relevant results for the given profile based on usage statistics performed on the collected information . In other words the favorites information of users having same profile will be displayed.

The analog context search result page presents search results obtained by the analog context appliance . As an example the analog context appliance obtains search results by evaluating a relevance measure of a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats with respect to a characteristic or attribute of data used in the host application or the workflow . The evaluation may be performed by comparing the similarity between the host application data and data associated with a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats using a computer heuristic. For example the host application may be a reservoir simulator calculating flow rate data and may be associated with a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats having similar data to yield a high relevance measure.

The context search appliance and the context search result page may be supplemented with the use of new computer heuristics. For example the time frame context search result page although not shown in may be added to present search results obtained based on the time frame context appliance which may be added to work with the context service engine . As an example the time frame context appliance obtains search results by evaluating temporal proximity of a search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats with respect to a project date a workflow date or an object date. The evaluation may be performed using a computer heuristic to identify any date related information associated with the search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats and compare it to the project date the workflow date or the object date. The date related information may be extracted from a title content time stamp or other attributes associated with the search candidate with both structured and unstructured formats .

In the example shown in the location of interest and the date of interest may be both related to an object indicated by the label Well Honeywell 2 . The temporal scale may be adjusted based on user defined time range and a user controlled slider . Additionally the relevance measure geographic proximity generated by the spatial context appliance is presented using a positive axis from a base line in the data context service window . The relevance measure contextual proximity generated by another context appliance is presented using a negative axis from the base line in the data context service window . The another context appliance may be anyone of the time frame context appliances . The scope of the spatial context based search may be adjusted by the location aperture . The scope of the search using the another context appliance may be adjusted by the context aperture . The scope of the time frame context appliance may be adjusted by the time aperture . Further the data context service window also includes a user defined search field for limiting the search results by supplementing the context appliances with a user provided search key word.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in the shared environment each of the collected previous search results may be annotated with notes e.g. information note quality tag other annotation explaining the relevance or confidence of the data etc. rated with rating and or associated with available actions . The rating allows users within the sharing group to tag the search results deemed valuable and promote value added knowledge capture. The actions may include a similar action as action item described with respect to above as well as additional actions applicable in the sharing environment such as share annotate send to or other applicable actions. These actions allow instant and appropriate action based on the context and content of the search results e.g. data or document .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the annotated with notes and rate with rating may compose another context information category and as such a new computer heuristic may be devised to supplement the data context service window with additional context appliance and context search result page not shown . The relevance measure generated from original context search appliances may be further adjusted or revised based on this addition.

Upon receipt of the results one or more oilfield data items may be stored in a shared data repository e.g. a hierarchical data base a relational database a binary tree structure etc. . The oilfield data items associated with the shared data repository may be managed e.g. data item s added modified deleted transferred etc. . In Step the oilfield operation is adjusted based on one or more of the received oilfield data items. Optionally the search results can be archived in a data repository to be shared by another project of the oilfield operation.

The steps of portions or all of the process may be repeated as desired. Repeated steps may be selectively performed until satisfactory results achieved. For example steps may be repeated after adjustments are made. This may be done to improve the relevance measure of the search results and or to determine the impact of changes made.

The search aperture user defined search field layout of the search result page available action and action buttons defined in the data context service window provide flexibility to the context based search process. These factors of the various context search result page and corresponding context appliances are selected to meet the requirements of the oilfield operation. Any combination of context appliances may be selectively linked or combined to create the overall search result for the oilfield operation. The process of linking the context appliances may be re arranged and context based search repeated using different configurations. Depending on the type of computer heuristics and or the arrangement of the context appliances and or the shared search result repository the context based search may be configured to provide the desired results. Various combinations may be tried and compared to determine the best outcome. Adjustments to the context based search may be made based on the oilfield the workflow the host application and other factors. The process may be repeated as desired.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example additional context information categories context appliances and context search result pages may be added as new computer heuristics are devised. The context information may be automatically extracted or supplemented with user provided information. The context based search may be repeated according to the various configurations and the search results compared and or analyzed.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

