---

title: Polling
abstract: A system for mobile device poll creation and conductance disclosed. A poll is created using poll creation software on a mobile device, personal computer or a web-based application. A polling server then validates the poll and publishes the poll to one or more mobile devices. The users of the one or mobile devices may then respond to the poll via their mobile device, a personal computer, or a web-based application. The results are sent to the polling server and are processed. The results of the poll are then published to the poll creator and the poll participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08693494&OS=08693494&RS=08693494
owner: Seven Networks, Inc.
number: 08693494
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 941 632 filed on Jun. 1 2007 entitled Polling which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to the field of wireless mobile device services. More specifically the present invention relates to poll creation poll publication and poll processing.

Mobile devices may be used to communicate via text messages. The use of text messages may be used to conduct polls. An example of text based polling is the television show American Idol. Viewers of American Idol vote for the contestants they want to help avoid elimination. An available voting method is the use of text messages from a mobile device. Viewers send a text message with the word vote to a number associated with the particular contestant for whom the viewer wants to vote. These votes along with votes received through other voting methodologies are counted and used in determining the outcome of the show.

Mobile device polling is currently limited to polls setup by large entities such as American Idol in association with a network service provider e.g. AT T Wireless . The subject matter of the text message polls and the allowable responses are predetermined. There is a need in for individuals to create and conduct their own text message polls that is presently unavailable in the prior art.

A method for mobile network polling is disclosed. The method includes receiving a poll created on an originating client at the polling server. The poll is then processed at the polling server. The poll is then published from the polling server to one or more mobile devices. The poll responses generated by users of the mobile devices are received at the polling server. The poll responses are processed at the polling server. The poll results are published from the polling server to the poll originator.

A system for polling in a mobile network includes a computing device a polling server and one or more mobile devices. The computing device generates a poll. The polling server is connected to the computing device. The polling server receives the generated poll. The polling server further validates the poll. The one or more mobile devices are communicatively connected to the polling server. The one or more mobile devices receive the poll as published by the polling server. The one or more mobile devices generate a response to the published poll. The polling server receives the generated response to the published poll. The polling server processes the generated response to the published poll. The polling server publishes the results to the one or more mobile devices that generated a response to the published poll.

A polling server including a poll validation module a poll publication module a poll response module and a poll results publication module. The poll validation module receives a poll generated by a computing device connected to a polling server. The poll validation module verifies that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of the polling server. The poll validation module may alternatively verify that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of a polling application utilized by the polling server. The poll validation module may alternatively verify that the generated poll conforms to both the requirements of the polling server and the polling application utilized by the polling server. The poll publication module converts the generated poll into a format that may be transmitted over a network. The poll publication module may alternatively convert the generated poll into a format that may be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device connected to a network. The poll publication module may alternatively convert the generated poll into a format that may both be transmitted over a network and be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device connected to a network. The poll response module receives the responses to the published poll from the one or more mobile devices that generated a response to the published poll and calculates the results from the poll. The poll results publication module publishes the results of the poll that was calculated by the poll response module.

An application programming interface API overlay may be provided on an SMS system during poll creation. A user may choose a poll creation option that may link the poll to a specific phone number or text message address. When a user subsequently responds to the poll the mobile device may automatically dial and or send the text message to submit the user s vote without the need for remembering an exact number or verbiage for texting.

In optional step the poll is validated at the polling server. The polling server verifies that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of the polling server. The polling server may alternatively verify that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of a polling application utilized by the polling server. The polling server may alternatively verify that the generated poll conforms to both the requirements of the polling server and the polling application utilized by the polling server.

In step a success notification is sent from the polling server to the originating client if the poll is valid. In step a failure notification is sent from the polling server to the originating client if the poll is invalid. The user of the originating client may then modify the poll re create a new poll or abandon the poll. Notices in either instance may be SMS based or an e mail communication. Details as to why a poll is not valid may be included in the response.

In step the poll is processed at the polling server. A poll object is created for each transport used to reach the poll recipients. Such transports may include Short Message Service SMS with reply to me shortcode generic Instant Message IM network specific poll API Instant Message IM Email with reply to me processing Email with embedded HTML form or Email SMS IM with a link to a web based voting site. Poll processing also includes converting the generated poll into a format that may be transmitted over a network. The polling server may convert the generated poll into a format that may be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device connected to a network. The polling server may convert the generated poll into a format that may both be transmitted over a network and be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device connected to a network. The polling server may use either charging or accounting functions or both before or after processing the poll. The polling server may require the originating client to verify charges before processing the poll.

In step the poll is published from the polling server to one or more mobile devices. The poll may be published to the one or more poll recipients via SMS with reply to me shortcode generic IM network specific poll API IM Email with reply to me processing Email with embedded HTML form or Email SMS IM with a link to an HTTP site.

In step the poll responses are received as generated by users of the one or more mobile devices. The responses are gathered via one or more channels. The channels may include SMS shortcode IM agent Email agent or an HTTP voting site.

In step the poll responses are processed. The polling server receives the responses to the published poll from the one or more mobile devices that generated a response to the published poll and calculates the results from the poll. The answers for each poll question may be counted. The total number of responses received may be counted. Percentages may be calculated such as the percentage of correct responses for each poll question the percentage of each answer received for each poll question the percentage of responses received from the poll recipients or percentages of responses that are correct or incorrect.

In step the results to the poll originator are published. The publishing of the results to the poll originator may occur synchronously or asynchronously. In a synchronous embodiment there is an open Internet Protocol IP response to the originating client that generated the poll. Where the originating client is a personal computer or web based application a dynamic update form may be pushed to the originating client. In an asynchronous embodiment there may be an IP push to the originating client after disconnect whereby a communication channel is opened e.g. by an initial SMS message followed by delivery of the relevant polling data results. The results may be published to the poll originator by sending an SMS summary to the originating client updating an HTTP results page or updating an XML HTTP feed.

In optional step is publishing the poll results to the one or more mobile device whose users provided a response to the published poll in step . Automated updates on poll results may be sent to the user s mobile phone or mobile device via for example an HTTP GET command. For example once a user responds to a poll about racing by submitting a choice for favorite race car driver the mobile device may automatically receive and display details regarding the current poll results as well as the final poll results once the poll is closed. The poll may also include an option for delaying a response. If a user chooses to respond to the poll later the poll creation software on the mobile device may provide reminder messages and or result updates up until the poll closes. The polling server may also provide reminder messages and or result updates up until the poll closes.

The present polling method may be used to drive Internet traffic. Polling may use subscriptions to gauge previously established interests which may be used to drive Internet traffic to related sites. For example when a user participates in a poll updates regarding the poll may include links to websites with related content or even automatic redirects to the same.

Once the poll is created it is published to the polling server . In some embodiments the originating client may pre validate the poll prior to publishing the poll to the polling server . The polling server then validates the poll and returns a success or failure notification to the originating client . In some embodiments the polling server may use a charging function or accounting function or both either before or after processing the poll. The charging function or accounting function allows the polling server to charge the poll originator a fee. Types of fees may include flat fees or fees based on poll options poll complexity number or poll questions and number of poll recipients. The polling server may require the client verify charges before processing the poll.

The polling server then processes the poll. The polling server creates a poll object for each type of transport to be used to reach poll recipients. The types of poll objects that may be created include an SMS with reply to me shortcode generic IM network specific poll API IM Email with reply to me processing Email with an embedded HTML form or an SMS IM or Email embedded with a link to an HTTP voting site. The polling server then publishes the poll to one or more mobile devices using the poll objects. The polling server and the one or more mobile devices are connected over a network .

The users of the one or more mobile devices receive the poll and may then respond to the poll. The users of the one or more mobile devices may then respond to the poll via the mobile device or through a computing device using SMS IM Email or an HTTP voting site. The system may contain one or more computing devices through which other mobile device users may use to respond to the poll. The user of the mobile device does not have to respond to the poll via the method in which they received the poll. For example if the poll is published to one of the mobile devices via SMS the user of that mobile device may not be limited to responding to the poll via SMS. The user of that mobile device may choose to any available response modes made available by the poll originator which may include SMS IM Email or an HTTP voting site.

The poll responses are sent back to the polling server . The polling server then processes the poll results. The polling server may count the answers for each poll question or the total number of responses received. The polling server may calculate percentages of each answer submitted for each poll question percentages of correct responses for each poll question percentage of responses received from the poll recipients or percentages of responses that are correct or incorrect. The poll results are then published to the originating client . The results may also be published to the poll recipients or poll responders. The poll results may be published in real time time delay set time interval at predetermined change points or after the poll has closed.

Polling server may include a poll validation module a poll publication module a poll response module and a poll results publication module . Modules and may be executed by processor which may be a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC embedded with microcode corresponding to microcode functionality or other known processing element.

The poll validation module when executed by processor processes a received poll generated by a computing device in communication with polling server . The poll validation module verifies that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of the polling server . The poll validation module may alternatively verify that the generated poll conforms to the requirements of a polling application utilized by the polling server . The poll validation module may also verify that the generated poll conforms to both the requirements of the polling server and the polling application utilized by the polling server.

Execution of the poll publication module converts the generated poll into a format that may be transmitted over a network. The poll publication module may also convert the generated poll into a format that may be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device connected to a network. The poll publication module may also convert the generated poll into a format that may both be transmitted over a network and be executed and rendered by a polling application at a mobile device in communication with a network.

Execution of the poll response module processes received responses to the published poll from the one or more mobile devices that generated a response to the published poll and calculates the results from the poll. The poll response module may count the answers for each poll question or the total number of responses received. The poll response module may calculate percentages of each answer submitted for each poll question percentages of correct responses for each poll question percentage of responses received from the poll recipients or percentages of responses that are correct or incorrect. The poll results publication module provides for the publication of the results of the poll that was calculated by the poll response module .

While the present invention has been described in connection with a series of preferred embodiments these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

