---

title: Advanced gray rod control assembly
abstract: An advanced gray rod control assembly (GRCA) for a nuclear reactor. The GRCA provides controlled insertion of gray rod assemblies into the reactor, thereby controlling the rate of power produced by the reactor and providing reactivity control at full power. Each gray rod assembly includes an elongated tubular member, a primary neutron-absorber disposed within the tubular member said neutron-absorber comprising an absorber material, preferably tungsten, having a 2200 m/s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross-section of from 10 to 30 barns. An internal support tube can be positioned between the primary absorber and the tubular member as a secondary absorber to enhance neutron absorption, absorber depletion, assembly weight, and assembly heat transfer characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08537962&OS=08537962&RS=08537962
owner: Westinghouse Electric Company LLC
number: 08537962
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080208
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC07 07ID14779 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to nuclear reactors and more particularly to an advanced design of gray rod control assemblies GRCAs .

The power produced by the reactor of a nuclear power plant is generally controlled by raising or lowering control rod assemblies within the reactor core and the change in reactor power output required in order to accommodate a change in the demand for electrical output from the electrical power plant is commonly referred to as load follow. As described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 079 236 load follow presents many operating issues. For instance in a pressurized water reactor PWR during load follow reactivity must be controlled and axial power distribution changes in the core in response to the power level change must be addressed.

The fuel assemblies of modern reactor cores typically employ two types of rod control assemblies to control reactivity rod cluster control assemblies RCCAs and gray rod control assemblies GRCAs . Both consist of a plurality of neutron absorbing rods fastened at their top ends to a common hub or spider assembly. The body of the rods generally comprises a stainless steel tube which encapsulates a neutron absorbing material such as a silver indium cadmium absorber material and the rods are slid within tubular guide thimble tubes of the fuel assembly with a control drive mechanism near the top of the spider assembly operating to control the movement of the rods within the thimble tubes. In this manner the controlled insertion and extraction of the rods generally controls the amount of power produced by the reactor. Additionally GRCAs are used during full power operation as described below.

Typically GRCAs are used in load follow maneuvering because they are comprised of reduced worth control rods commonly referred to in the art as gray rods and have less impact on core distribution. The term gray as used herein relates to the neutron absorption characteristic of the absorber rods and refers to the fact that the GRCA is intended to absorb only a fraction of the thermal and epithermal energy neutrons entering the absorber as opposed to black control rods which are intended to absorb a large majority of such neutrons in order to shut down the reactor. Gray rods are known to provide a mechanical shim MSHIM reactivity control mechanism as opposed to a chemical shim which requires changing the concentration of soluble boron in the reactor coolant. Thus the use of gray rods minimizes the need for processing the primary reactor coolant on a daily basis and therefore greatly simplifies operations. This reactivity control function is used for both full power operations and during load follow. More specifically an existing GRCA design consists of 24 rodlets fastened at their top ends to the spider. Of the 24 rodlets within the cluster only four rods are absorber rods and the neutron absorber material encapsulated within the absorber rods typically consists of an alloy containing about 80 silver Ag about 15 indium In and about 5 cadmium Cd . Such a design poses several disadvantages.

Among the disadvantages of known Ag In Cd GRCA designs is the fact that indium and cadmium have relatively large neutron cross sections which result in their depletion over a relatively short period of time. As a result the rod worth of such a GRCA design is reduced below an acceptable value within about five to ten years depending on the design and amount of usage. Continued use beyond this time results in further depletion and the GRCAs will eventually become ineffective at controlling the reactor during load follow or providing reactivity control at full power. This undesirably leads to frequent GRCA replacement. A second disadvantage relates to changes in the local rod power for fuel rods which are adjacent to the four guide thimbles that contain the absorber rods. Specifically because the absorber material is localized to four rodlets in known designs a relatively large change in power commonly referred to as the delta power of the fuel rods occurs for example during a rod pull. A rod pull is the process of extracting the GRCA from the fuel assembly. In known GRCA designs a rod pull can result in a delta power spike in adjacent fuel rods that may be larger than allowable limits which indicate an increased risk of fuel failure. GRCA designs which are variations of known designs and which incorporate lesser amounts of Ag In Cd evenly distributed among all 24 rodlets can mitigate this problem. However such designs will also deplete at a significantly higher rate due to lower self shielding of the indium and cadmium and will become depleted below the acceptable rod worth in less than five years. In addition absorber swelling due to irradiation induced transmutation in silver alloy control rod designs has been a longstanding problem in the industry for many years. Specifically exposure of silver and indium to neutron radiation results in the formation of significant amounts of cadmium and tin which can lead to swelling due to changes in the material density. Too much swelling of the absorber can result in the absorber contacting and potentially cracking the cladding surrounding it.

The reduced worth gray rods are typically intended to have a reactivity worth significantly lower than standard or black RCCA control rods that are used to shut down the reactor or provide gross reactivity control capability. The targeted reactivity worth of a gray control rod may vary depending on the application and intended operating strategy of the plant. Further the weight of a gray control rod should be similar to the weight of a black control rod that will be used in the same plant if both the gray and black control rods have the same interfaces with other components in the reactor. The reactivity worth and weight of a gray control rod can be determined by the material s selected and the ultimate configuration of the rod. Typically the use of a single absorber material does not satisfy both the weight and reactivity worth requirements. Thus there is room for improvement in GRCA designs for nuclear reactors.

These needs and others are satisfied by the present invention which is directed to an advanced gray rod control assembly GRCA design that provides an improved neutron absorber material an improved gray rod assembly and a distribution of gray rod assemblies which is adapted to accommodate load follow operations and to overcome known adverse conditions traditionally associated therewith.

As one aspect of the invention a gray rod for a rod control assembly of a nuclear reactor said gray rod comprising an elongated tubular member having a first end a second end an outer diameter and a length a neutron absorber disposed within said elongated tubular member generally toward the first end thereof said neutron absorber comprising an absorber material having a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns.

As another aspect of the invention an advanced gray rod control assembly for a nuclear reactor said advanced gray rod control assembly comprising a plurality of gray rods wherein each of said gray rods comprises an elongated tubular member having a first end a second end an outer diameter and a length a neutron absorber disposed within said elongated tubular member generally toward the first end thereof said neutron absorber comprising an absorber material having a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns.

The neutron absorber may be distributed among all of the gray rod assemblies of the plurality of gray rod assemblies. More specifically the advanced gray rod control assembly may include 24 gray rods wherein the neutron absorber is distributed generally equally among all 24 gray rods of the assembly.

As yet another aspect of the invention a nuclear reactor having a gray rod control assembly for a nuclear reactor said gray rod control assembly comprising a plurality of gray rods wherein each of said gray rods comprises an elongated tubular member having a first end a second end an outer diameter and a length a neutron absorber disposed within said elongated tubular member generally toward the first end thereof said neutron absorber comprising an absorber material having a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns.

For simplicity of disclosure the invention will be described with reference to the pressurized water reactor PWR core design which is commercially known under the designation AP1000. The AP1000 is a Westinghouse Electric Company LLC reactor design. Westinghouse Electric Company LLC has a place of business in Monroeville Pa. Reference to the AP1000 is provided for illustrative example purposes only and is not limiting upon the scope of the invention. It will therefore be appreciated that the exemplary GRCA design of the invention has application in a wide variety of other reactor designs.

Directional phrases used herein such as for example upper lower top bottom left right and derivatives thereof relate to the orientation of the elements shown in the drawings and are not limiting upon the claims unless expressly recited therein.

As employed herein the statement that two or more parts are coupled together shall mean that the parts are joined together either directly or joined through one or more intermediate parts.

Referring now to the drawings and particularly to there is shown an elevational view of a nuclear reactor fuel assembly represented in vertically shortened form and being generally designated by reference numeral . The fuel assembly is the type used in a pressurized water reactor PWR and has a structural skeleton which at its lower end includes a bottom nozzle for supporting the fuel assembly on a lower core support plate in the core region of the nuclear reactor not shown a top nozzle at its upper end and a number of guide tubes or thimbles which extend longitudinally between and are rigidly attached at opposite ends to the bottom and top nozzles and .

The fuel assembly further includes a plurality of transverse grids axially spaced along and mounted to the guide thimble tubes and an organized array of elongated fuel rods transversely spaced and supported by the grids . The assembly also has an instrumentation tube located in the center thereof and extending between and mounted to the bottom and top nozzles and . In view of the foregoing arrangement of parts it will be understood that the fuel assembly forms an integral unit capable of being conveniently handled without damaging the assembly parts.

As previously discussed the array of fuel rods in the fuel assembly are held in spaced relationship with one another by the grids which are spaced along the fuel assembly length. Each fuel rod includes nuclear fuel pellets and is closed at its opposite ends by upper and lower end plugs and . The pellets are maintained in a stack by a plenum spring disposed between the upper end plug and the top of the pellet stack. The fuel pellets composed of fissile material are responsible for creating the reactive power of the reactor. A liquid moderator coolant such as water or water containing boron is pumped upwardly through a plurality of flow openings in the lower core plate to the fuel assembly. The bottom nozzle of the fuel assembly passes the coolant upwardly through the guide tubes and along the fuel rods of the assembly in order to extract heat generated therein for the production of useful work. To control the fission process a number of control rods are reciprocally moveable in the guide thimbles located at predetermined positions in the fuel assembly . A spider assembly positioned above the top nozzle supports the control rods .

Continuing to refer to the general control rod configuration will now be described. As previously stated in order to take advantage of the MSHIM capabilities afforded by low worth or gray rods known control rod assemblies such as the existing control assemblies for the Westinghouse Electric Company LLC AP1000 reactor employ GRCAs. However while the GRCA design for the current AP1000 reactor design has 24 rods which are generally configured as shown in as mentioned hereinbefore 20 of the 24 rods are stainless steel e.g. without limitation SS 304 water displacing rods and only four of the rods are neutron absorber rods in order to obtain the targeted low reactivity worth for the GRCA. Therefore essentially all of the neutron absorber material is localized and isolated in only four rod locations within the GRCA.

Additionally in the existing AP1000 design the absorber material comprises an Ag In Cd alloy absorber consisting of about 80 silver about 15 indium and about 5 cadmium which will absorb a large majority of all thermal and epithermal energy neutrons that enter the absorber region. Such a neutron absorber is known in the art as a black absorber. This absorber material is consistent with known standard full strength rod cluster control assemblies RCCAs in which all 24 rods are Ag In Cd. As noted and as will be discussed herein with reference to indium and cadmium are known to rapidly deplete. RCCAs spend a minimal amount of time in the core during power operation. Therefore such depletion is not an issue. However for the AP1000 mechanical shim MSHIM operation for example the GRCAs are expected to reside in the core for up to half of the operating cycle. Under these operating conditions the existing GRCA design would need to be replaced about every five to ten years due to rapid absorber depletion. As will be discussed in detail herein among other benefits the advanced GRCA design of the invention overcomes this rapid depletion disadvantage and also substantially avoids the undesirable local power spike experienced when a traditional GRCA having four RCCA rods is pulled from the core.

A further understanding of the aforementioned absorber depletion issue will be had with reference to . shows a graph of the depletion rates for two different isotopes of silver two different isotopes of indium and the depletion rate for cadmium. More specifically the depletions of silver 107 Ag 107 silver 109 Ag 109 indium 113 In 113 indium 115 In 115 and cadmium Cd are plotted together for comparison as lines and respectively for a GRCA design where self shielding is minimized. As shown both isotopes of silver 100 have relatively slow depletion rates whereas indium 115 and cadmium 108 have rapid depletion rates. Specifically the rapid depletion of indium 115 and cadmium 108 result in a loss of absorption strength of about 20 after only five years of operation for this design. Changes in load follow operational characteristics can become a problem in the Westinghouse AP1000 with as little as 5 loss of GRCA absorber strength. If the initial rod worth of the GRCA design is increased to compensate for the anticipated depletion in order to extend the GRCA life time the effect on core power distribution due to a GRCA rod pull will correspondingly increase leading to an increased risk of fuel failures. As noted hereinbefore rapid depletion of black neutron absorber isotopes undesirably results in reduced ability of the GRCAs to control the reactor during load follow and ultimately leads to frequent GRCA replacement. The invention overcomes these disadvantages by employing an improved gray rod assembly design that among other refinements employs a different neutron absorber material having an improved depletion in comparison with the existing Ag In Cd absorber.

Specifically shows a plot of the relative rod worth of a GRCA incorporating the exemplary absorber material of the invention compared to a GRCA with the same initial worth incorporating the existing Ag In Cd absorber . Both designs plotted in incorporate an even distribution of absorber in all GRCA rodlets in order to minimize power distribution impacts. Like the graph of the change in rod worth is plotted by way of relative worth versus lifetime of the absorber in years. It is desirable for the absorber used in a GRCA to have a slowly varying or essentially flat depletion worth curve under long term exposure to neutron irradiation. Such operation is typical for a GRCA as opposed to a standard black RCCA that does not normally operate within the core during power operation and therefore does not experience as much neutron irradiation. Specifically the present invention replaces the existing Ag In Cd absorber with absorber that comprises an absorber material having a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns. The relative absorption capability in the epithermal and fast neutron energy ranges as well as the absorption cross section characteristics of the resulting depletion products can be also considered in selecting the exemplary absorber material for a GRCA. The absorber material can be arranged in a cylindrical geometry within the GRCA rodlet. Further the absorber can be segmented axially or it may be a solid piece covering up to the entire axial length of the cylinder. Non limiting examples of suitable absorber materials can include but are not limited to substantially pure tungsten at near or full theoretical density reduced density or porous tungsten metal tungsten based alloys such as tungsten rhenium and tungsten nickel iron tungsten based compounds such as tungsten carbide substantially pure scandium ytterbium and manganese scandium ytterbium and manganese based alloys and scandium ytterbium and manganese based compounds. As used herein the phrases substantially pure and pure are used interchangeably to refer to an absorber that is almost entirely composed of the element e.g. tungsten scandium ytterbium or manganese wherein any impurities that are present in the absorber are in such low quantities as to be generally negligible. The plot of relative rod worth behavior shown in for the exemplary absorber is for a GRCA based on using pure tungsten as the primary neutron absorber.

The use of the absorber material in the present invention e.g. tungsten instead of an alternate absorber material such as for example silver silver indium cadmium boron hafnium and the like results in at least one of the following benefits. The relatively low capture cross section for tungsten results in slow depletion of the absorber relative to other black absorbers. The rod worth of a tungsten based GRCA design remains relatively stable with a slight increasing trend occurring initially as shown in due to the creation of rhenium 187. The rhenium 187 is created as a result of neutron absorption in tungsten 186 and the subsequent beta decay of tungsten 187. The neutron absorption cross section of rhenium 187 is larger than the parent isotope and compensates nearly equally for the slow depletion of all absorbing isotopes initially present in the tungsten does not negatively impact the neutron absorption and therefore the usefulness of the GRCA. It is calculated that the tungsten absorber worth will increase by about 3 to 5 over a 20 year in core irradiation history after which the worth will begin to slowly decrease. Other potential absorbers based on scandium ytterbium or manganese would also be expected to have relatively flat depletion worth characteristics in a GRCA due to the low neutron capture cross section. However these materials are not known to transmute into any strong neutron absorber isotopes and would therefore likely show a monotonic decrease in rod worth versus time. With the tungsten absorber transmutation reactions which result in significant changes in material properties over the design lifetime of the gray rod may be minimized. Long term neutron irradiation of pure tungsten will produce a tungsten rhenium alloy which has close to the same neutron capture cross section and material properties as the original material. The flat depletion worth curve of tungsten allows for the initial design of the gray rod to match an ideal target rod worth without having to over design the rod worth to compensate for absorber depletion effects which can be as high as 20 or more with a black absorber material. A gray rod that is designed to the ideal target rod worth and not over designed by 20 or more can result in less risk of causing pellet to clad interaction related fuel failures in the reactor due to lower delta power in the fuel rods and thus less radioactivity in the reactor coolant. Tungsten will not swell like Ag In Cd absorbers thus eliminating clad cracking concerns associated with Ag In Cd designs. Moreover tungsten has a significantly higher melting point than that of silver indium cadmium 6192 F. and 1472 F. respectively which can result in improved accident survivability. As a result it is believed that tungsten absorber will deform less under reactor operating conditions than for example a silver or silver alloy absorber. Additionally it is believed that the activation of tungsten in reactor may result in a significantly lower radioactive source term as compared to silver.

In one embodiment of the present invention wherein the absorber material includes substantially pure tungsten at near or full theoretical density tungsten based alloys such as tungsten rhenium and tungsten nickel iron tungsten based compounds such as tungsten carbide substantially pure scandium ytterbium and manganese scandium ytterbium and manganese based alloys and scandium ytterbium and manganese based compounds the absorber has a material density of from 16.5 to 19.4 g cm. In one embodiment wherein the neutron absorber is for the AP1000 application an absorber material such as substantially pure tungsten is used having a material density of approximately 19.3 g cm. Further for the AP1000 application a material is used having a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns.

As shown in the use of a of tungsten absorber significantly reduces the depletion rate of the absorber extending the useful nuclear lifetime of the improved GRCA to greater than 20 years. Not only is this a dramatic improvement over the aforementioned useful lifetime of only about five to ten years for the existing Ag In Cd absorber but the exemplary absorber worth remains relatively constant as opposed to the rapid depletion of the Ag In Cd absorber . The extended useful life of the exemplary absorber allows the improved GRCA to meet demanding control rod lifetime requirements.

In one embodiment of the present invention the absorber is contained within the elongated tubular member and is dimensioned to substantially fill the internal diameter of the tubular member . In one embodiment the outer diameter of the absorber is from 0.15 to 0.40 inch the outer diameter of the tubular member is from 0.37 to 0.45 inch. In another embodiment such as for use with the AP1000 the outer diameter of the absorber is from 0.17 to 0.35 inch the outer diameter of the tubular member is from 0.37 to 0.39 inch. The absorber can include reduced density or porous tungsten metal tungsten based alloy or a tungsten based compound.

As shown in the absorber material is generally disposed within the elongated tubular member . Also shown in the absorber can be double encapsulated first by an internal support tube and then by the elongated tubular member . The internal support tube is structured as a sleeve to substantially surround and encapsulate the absorber and the elongated tubular member i.e. cladding isolates the absorber and support tube from the primary coolant water. The internal support tube is constructed of a metal having good mechanical strength and thermal conductivity characteristics at the expected operating conditions. Further the melting point should be high enough to support continued integrity in the environment next to the absorber material. Suitable materials for the support tube can include but are not limited to zirconium and zirconium based alloys aluminum and aluminum base alloys nickel based alloys such as Alloy 718 UNS N07718 and Alloy 625 UNS N06625 and stainless steel such as SS 304L and SS 316L. The internal support tube is capped at both ends to provide isolation of the absorber in case of a breach in the elongated tubular member . The support tube can also facilitate heat transfer out of the absorber and provide structural support to the absorber .

In one embodiment of the invention the internal support tube can be constructed from a secondary absorber material that may be selected to enhance neutron absorption and or optimize rodlet weight in addition to facilitating heat transfer and providing structural support. The secondary absorber can have a lower capture cross section than that of the absorber i.e. the primary absorber. The secondary absorber may have a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 2 to 6 barns. Further the secondary absorber may have a density of from 7 to 9 g cm. Non limiting examples of suitable secondary absorber materials can include but are not limited to nickel based metal alloys such as Alloy 718 UNS N07718 and Alloy 625 UNS N06625 and stainless steel such as SS 304L and SS 316L.

Without being bound by any theory it is believed that the lower neutron capture cross section of the secondary absorber serves to counter balance the higher neutron capture cross section of the primary absorber. Similarly the lower density of the secondary absorber serves to counter balance the higher density of the primary absorber. By manipulating the relative proportions and materials selected for the primary and secondary absorbers it is possible to obtain a GRCA design that simultaneously optimizes both the rod worth and weight to targeted values while at the same time significantly improving heat transfer characteristics. The sleeve and or the cladding can be filled with an inert gas such as but not limited to helium or argon to prevent oxidation of the primary absorber at high operating temperatures and further improve heat transfer. In the sleeve or the cladding the primary absorber can be in the form of a stack of right circular cylinders a single cylinder or particles e.g. powder .

The neutron absorber of the present invention may be substantially concentrically disposed within the elongated tubular member . The neutron absorber of the present invention also may be substantially concentrically disposed within the support tube and the support tube may be within the tubular member . The support tube can have a wall thickness which is substantially defined by the space between the outer diameter of the absorber and the inner diameter of the elongated tubular member . As shown in the cross sectional view of the diameter of the exemplary absorber is less than the outer diameter of the rod tube .

The support tube has a wall thickness which can be greater than the thickness of the wall of tube . The support tube can serve to replace a part of the diametral gap between the primary absorber and the outer cladding with a high thermal conductivity material thus facilitating heat transfer out of the primary absorber to the coolant and significantly reducing operating temperatures in the gray rod. The support tube can also support and encapsulate the primary absorber to reduce the likelihood of any redistribution of the primary absorber or likelihood of release of the primary absorber to the coolant in the unlikely event of a failure in the outer clad.

In one embodiment the outer diameter of the absorber is from 0.10 to 0.38 inch the outer diameter of the tubular member is from 0.37 to 0.45 inch and the wall thickness of the support tube is from 0.01 to 0.10 inch. In another embodiment such as for use with the AP1000 the outer diameter of the absorber is from 0.16 to 0.24 inch the outer diameter of the tubular member is from 0.37 to 0.39 inch and the wall thickness of the support tube is from 0.05 to 0.07 inch.

Accordingly the exemplary gray rod assemblies of the invention provide an extended nuclear lifetime through use of the absorber materials described herein. The overall GRCA design of the invention also generally improves linear heat rate margins during rod maneuvers. Specifically the exemplary GRCA distributes the absorber over all 24 rods of the control assembly as opposed to localizing the absorber in only four rods as in the existing AP1000 design discussed hereinbefore. Distributing the absorber among all of the GRCA rods reduces the change in local fuel rod power delta power when the GRCA is removed from the core which in turn improves operating margins. Specifically distributing the absorber material over all 24 rods reduces the mount of absorber in each rod which reduces the magnitude of the local reactivity change near each rod during a rod pull. The exact amount of the reduction in amount of absorber material as compared with the four Ag In Cd absorbers of the current design is not meant to be limiting upon the invention.

In view of the foregoing the exemplary gray rod assemblies have been redesigned to include a combination of improved features such as a support tube an entirely different absorber material comprising a combination of a primary absorber encapsulated by a secondary absorber material the reduced amount of high neutron absorber material and distribution of the absorber among all of the rods . Accordingly the GRCA of the invention addresses and substantially overcomes the aforementioned disadvantages known in the art by reducing the amount of neutron absorber material per rod and by substantially evenly distributing the absorber material among all of the gray rods of the assembly . The advantages of the exemplary advanced GRCA design will be further understood and appreciated with reference to .

The absorber rod linear heating rate for a design using Ag In Cd in a reduced number of rods 4 out of 24 may lead to bulk boiling of the coolant water between the inside surface of the thimble tube and the outer surface of the elongated tube . Distribution of the absorber material to all 24 rods of a control assembly minimizes or prevents the occurrence of thimble bulk boiling.

Accordingly the invention provides an advanced GRCA that among other benefits exhibits an improved depletion rate resistance to large changes in local power distribution during a rod pull resistance to thimble bulk boiling and improved resistance to absorber alloy swelling and clad cracking.

The present invention relates to an improved design for a low worth or gray rod control assembly GRCA for a nuclear reactor. GRCAs are used in advanced nuclear reactor concepts to provide a fine reactivity control capability via mechanical means for purposes of controlling the amount of power produced by the reactor. A typical GRCA includes a spider assembly structured to provide for controlled insertion or withdrawal of up to 24 gray rodlet assemblies into the guide thimble tubes of a fuel assembly located in the nuclear reactor core. The improved GRCA design of the present invention incorporates the use of a plurality of improved gray rodlet assemblies which contain a novel combination and arrangement of neutron absorber and structural materials. Improved gray rodlet assemblies are used in all available rodlet locations within the GRCA in order to achieve the required reactivity worth and component weight while minimizing local power distribution impacts of GRCA movement on fuel rods within the fuel assembly.

Each improved gray rodlet assembly incorporates the use of a gray primary neutron absorber material supported by an internal support tube inside of an external cladding. The primary neutron absorber is comprised of substantially pure tungsten or a material with similar neutron absorption cross section and density characteristics arranged in a cylindrical geometry. Tungsten is a preferred primary neutron absorber material for gray control rod applications because it has a neutron absorption cross section in the targeted range and experiences very little change in reactivity worth with time due to absorber depletion effects under long term exposure to neutron irradiation. Tungsten also has a very high material density and melting temperature low activation potential and is less prone to irradiation induced swelling than other more commonly used black neutron absorber materials. Tungsten based alloys or compounds incorporating other elements may also be considered for use as the primary neutron absorber in the improved design. An elongated tubular member known as the internal support tube supports and confines the primary neutron absorber. The internal support tube is comprised of a nickel alloy stainless steel zirconium alloy or other similar structural material with experience in the nuclear industry which will produce no adverse consequence if exposed to reactor coolant. The internal support tube is intended primarily to facilitate heat transfer provide structural support and prevent redistribution or escape of the primary neutron absorber material in the event of a failure in the external cladding. However the neutron absorption cross section and density of the internal support tube can also be used to optimize the total neutron absorption capability and attain a targeted weight for the gray rodlet assembly in cases where these parameters must be closely controlled. Both the internal support tube and the primary neutron absorber are contained within an elongated tubular member known as the external cladding. The external cladding is typically stainless steel but may also be comprised of a nickel alloy or other similar structural material with experience in the nuclear industry which has been successfully used in applications involving long term exposure to reactor coolant. The dimensioning and selection of materials for the primary neutron absorber internal support tube and external cladding allow for simultaneous optimization of the reactivity worth total component weight and heat transfer characteristics of the improved gray rodlet assembly.

In cases where reliable long term integrity of the primary neutron absorber and external cladding can be established another embodiment of the gray rodlet assembly can be employed which eliminates the use of an internal support tube. This alternative form can be made to achieve the required reactivity worth and heat transfer characteristics while simplifying the manufacturing process at the expense of not optimizing the total component weight. Suitable materials for use as the primary neutron absorber in the alternative form can include but are not limited to various tungsten metal alloys such as but not limited to tungsten rhenium or tungsten nickel iron tungsten based compounds such as but not limited to tungsten carbide or a reduced density form of pure tungsten metal. Depending on the material selected the outer diameter of the neutron absorber can vary. There may be a relatively small or large radial gap between the outer diameter of the absorber and the inner diameter of the external cladding. In one embodiment wherein a more dilute primary neutron absorber material is used the outer diameter of the absorber can nearly fill the inner diameter of the external cladding.

The primary neutron absorber material for use in the present invention can include a material with a 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 10 to 30 barns arranged in a cylindrical geometry. The absorber material can have a slowly varying or flat depletion worth curve under long term exposure to neutron irradiation which is a characteristic need of GRCA operation that can be used to distinguish it from a standard black RCCA that does not see nearly as much neutron irradiation. The primary absorber may be segmented axially or it may be a solid piece covering up to substantially the entire axial length of the cylinder. Suitable materials for use in the primary neutron absorber can include the following 

B. Alloys containing substantial amounts of tungsten and other metals such as but not limited to W Re and W Ni Fe 

C. Chemical compounds containing tungsten and other elements such as but not limited to tungsten carbide 

These materials can be used as the primary neutron absorber in embodiments wherein the absorber is contained within an internal support tube and cladding or wherein the absorber is contained only within the cladding without the presence of a support tube. Further wherein a support tube is not used the primary neutron absorber can also include reduced density or porous tungsten metal i.e. the density being less than the theoretical density.

The use of tungsten based absorbers in gray rod applications can result in at least one of the following benefits 

A. Relatively low capture cross section for tungsten can result in slow depletion of the absorber relative to other black absorbers e.g. Ag In Cd Boron Hafnium 

B. Long term neutron irradiation of tungsten tends to produce a tungsten rhenium alloy which can have close to the same neutron capture cross section as the original material resulting in a relatively flat depletion worth curve with time 

C. The flat depletion worth curve can allow optimization of the gray rod design to a target rod worth without over designing the rod worth to compensate for absorber depletion effects which can be as high 20 or more with a black absorber material 

D. A gray rod design that is optimized to the target rod worth and not over designed by 20 or more will have less risk of causing pellet to clad interaction related fuel failures in the reactor due to lower delta power in the fuel rods and ultimately can lead to less radioactivity in the reactor coolant 

E. The high material density of tungsten can allow higher weight gray rod designs which are less likely to experience incomplete rod insertion events and

F. The very high melting temperature of tungsten can lead to better accident survivability as well as reduced design constraints due to thermal considerations.

The internal support tube for use in the present invention can include a structural material that has prior nuclear industry experience and is known to produce no adverse consequence if exposed to reactor coolant. The support tube material can be a metal with good mechanical strength and thermal conductivity characteristics at the expected operating conditions. The allowed service temperature should be high enough to support continued integrity in the environment next to the absorber material. In the embodiment wherein the material is selected to optimize the total neutron absorption capability and attain a targeted weight for the gray rod assembly a material with a combined 2200 m s neutron absorption microscopic capture cross section of from 2 to 6 barns and a density of from 7 to 9 g cmis also desirable. The internal support tube can be capped at both ends to provide isolation of the primary neutron absorber in case of a breach in the external cladding. Suitable materials for use as the internal support tube can include the following 

The zirconium based alloys and aluminum metal are typically not used in the embodiment wherein the support tube material is being relied upon to optimize the total neutron absorption capability and attain a targeted weight for the gray rod assembly.

The use of the materials described herein for the internal support tube can result in at least one of the following benefits 

A. The cross section and density characteristics of the internal support tube material can provide the designer with another degree of freedom which allows for development of a gray rodlet design that simultaneously optimizes reactivity worth rod weight and heat transfer characteristics 

B. The internal support tube can enhance heat transfer out of the primary neutron absorber by filling in much of the internal gap between the absorber and the external cladding with a high thermal conductivity material thereby effectively lowering absorber operating temperatures 

C. The internal support tube can provide a second barrier between the reactor coolant and the primary neutron absorber in addition to the external cladding the additional barrier providing a higher level of confidence that the absorber will not ultimately come in contact with the coolant which can lead to greater flexibility in the type of materials that can ultimately be considered for the primary absorber and

D. The internal support tube can minimize potential redistribution of the primary neutron absorber material in the event of embrittlement of the absorber.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the claims appended and any and all equivalents thereof.

