---

title: Apparatus and method for magnetic-based manipulation of microscopic particles
abstract: Apparatus and method for manipulating particles on a micro- or nano-scale. An embodiment of the present invention includes a magnetic micro-manipulation technique that utilizes micro-coils and soft magnetic microscopic wires for localized manipulation of particles. Another embodiment of the present invention uses magneto-static interaction between two magnetic microscopic wires to mechanically manipulate particles. Yet another embodiment of the present invention combines a magnetic particle with a magnetic manipulator or other device for generating magnetic fields to operate as a micro-fluidic micro-motor. Other embodiments of the present invention employ a magnetic separation system employing porous membranes partially filled with magnetic wires.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07892427&OS=07892427&RS=07892427
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07892427
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
This application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 411 771 filed Apr. 11 2003 now abandoned incorporated by reference herein which claims priority of Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 372 322 filed Apr. 12 2002 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

The present invention was made with Government assistance under National Science Foundation Grant No. NSF DMR 97 24535 National Institute of Health Grant No. PHSH601959 02 and ONR DARPA Grant No. N00014 00 1 0632. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to micro scale and nano scale devices and systems. The present invention additionally relates to micro electromechanical systems MEMS . Another field of the invention is micro and nano scale particle manipulation e.g. handling of chemical and biological materials in analysis systems.

Micromanipulation and characterization of objects ranging in size from atomic to micrometer dimensions has become one of the central features of modern science. Optical trapping methods are known for manipulating latex micron sized balls attached to objects of biological interest at room temperature. In addition systems based on carbon nanotubes have been utilized for physical tweezing of micro objects.

Miniaturizing mechanical optical magnetic and electronic components is part of a major effort in development and use of micro and nano scale devices and systems. For example there has been a significant amount of micro electromechanical systems MEMS research with the goal of reducing the size of systems into sub millimeter dimensions.

As part of the development and operation of these miniaturized systems it is highly desired to provide methods and systems for manipulating very small micro or nano scale for example particles in various environments including air vacuum or fluid.

As an example there exists a specific interest in the manipulation of magnetic objects. Magnetic tweezers have found wide uses in biological applications such as in the investigations of the physical properties of the cytoplasm mechanical properties of cell surfaces and elasticity and transport of single DNA molecules. For cell studies most of these techniques rely on the micromanipulation of a magnetic particle positioned inside a cell wall or bound on the surface of a cell while the single molecule investigations involve linking the magnetic particle on one end of the molecule strand. In all of these studies micromanipulation is performed with a device consisting of permanent or soft coil wound magnets with macroscopic dimensions. Typical forces available through these techniques are in the range of 0.1 10 pN.

Several applications that exploit the properties of magnetic wires and micro coils are provided by the present invention. One type of embodiment includes a magnetic manipulation apparatus that utilizes a micro coil wound around a soft magnetic wire for positioning of particles. Another embodiment of the present invention provides an apparatus for mechanical manipulation of a particle using magneto static interaction between two magnetic micro wires affected by a magnetic actuator which supplies either a local or external magnetic field. Still other embodiments of the present invention combine a rotor including a microscopic particle with a stator including a plurality of magnetic manipulators for generating magnetic fields to operate as a micro scale motor. Other embodiments of the present invention employ a magnetic separation system for microscopic particles including a membrane having a plurality of pores where one or more of the pores contains a magnetic wire.

As the principles and tools used in conventional micro and nano fabrication of devices and systems stem from the semiconductor industry electrostatic principles dominate conventional actuation tasks and magnetic components are generally avoided due to added expense and lack of processing know how. However there are potential advantages to using magnetic components in micromachines if fabrication and cost challenges can be overcome. Magnetic components can generally create larger forces at a larger distance than their electrostatic counterparts. Additionally since the magnetic materials are responsive to the magnetic fields and field gradients generated by the current carrying wires they tend to be of low input impedance rather than being high impedance voltage devices as is the case for electrostatic actuators.

The present invention provides several methods and systems for magnetic manipulation of particles in various environments. In addition to basic manipulation such as moving positioning arranging etc. of discrete particles by magnetic and magnetic mechanical methods the present invention provides methods incorporating particle manipulation into more complex systems. Devices and methods provided by the invention can potentially provide micro scale cost effective techniques to manipulate particles. Applications include but are not limited to the fields of engineering including but not limited to micro electromechanical systems MEMS and biology.

Certain preferred embodiments of the present invention provide magnetic or magneto mechanical operation of microscopic tweezers or clamps using magnetic principles. A magnetic manipulator is disclosed according to particular preferred embodiments of the present invention that allows manipulation of microscopic particles e.g. micro or nano scale particles in various environments. A preferred magnetic micro manipulation system and method utilizes a magnetic manipulator having micro coils and magnetic microscopic wires working together for localized positioning of micron sized magnetic objects. This preferred instrument provides a non invasive low cost alternative to the optical trapping techniques conventionally used in biological micro manipulation for example. This magnetic manipulator also has potential for applications directed to studies of mechanical properties of some basic molecular systems.

Other preferred embodiments of the present invention use a magnetic manipulator or other magnetic field generator in combination with soft magnetic microscopic wires to form a system for mechanically manipulating particles. Magnetic microscopic wires offer several features that make them attractive for use in a number of applications. Since elongated magnetic microscopic wires with a diameter of 1 m or less are generally fully magnetized single domain along the long axis due to their small size and elongated shape they are by default permanent magnets and require no energy to be magnetized by outside sources. Their small size also translates into large gradient magnetic fields that these magnetic microscopic wires generate and therefore large magnetic forces that they can apply. The source of these strong gradient fields can be at the ends of the wires or along the entire wire if a magnetic field is used to magnetize the wire perpendicular to the wire long axis. Furthermore the synthesis of magnetic micro wires has become very cost effective. This makes magnetic micro wires potentially disposable a particularly attractive feature for massively parallel MEMS and biomedical systems where considerations of cost are of importance. Additionally the fact that the microscopic wires of this size are permanently magnetized allows for both attractive and repulsive forces to be magnetized. Based on these principles several embodiments of magnetic microscopic wire applications are contemplated by the present invention.

Preferred embodiments of the invention use a magnetic microscopic wire as a source of a large gradient magnetic field for the development of micro magneto mechanical systems MMMS such as nano magnetic tweezers and ultra high gradient magnetic separation applications. Current micro scale tweezers are generally electrostatic in nature. However magnetic forces are generally stronger than their electrostatic counterparts and therefore it can be advantageous to use magnetic components. Also electrostatic devices are generally high impedance voltage driven devices while magnetic devices are generally low impedance.

According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention the forces between arms of microscopic wires are magnetic in nature and the operation of the tweezers i.e. opening and closing of the tweezers is based on the basic properties of the small magnetic wires. Preferably the single domain state property of a small magnetic wire is used for applying attractive forces between the arms of the tweezers the nano wires . By applying appropriate macroscopic or local magnetic fields by the magnetic manipulator for example the tweezers can be opened and closed as desired.

The microscopic wires may be prepared by electrodeposition. In certain embodiments multi component microscopic wires having magnetic and non magnetic parts are contemplated. In this way more complex objects can be constructed that allow cylindrical structures including non magnetic structures to be joined together by magnetic forces. This multi functionality may be useful in for example biological and engineering applications.

Other preferred embodiments of the present invention use magnetic manipulators and or magnetic microscopic wires in combination with other components to form additional devices or systems. An embodiment of the invention includes extending the microcoil magnetic microscopic wire system into the development of an electric motor. This rotational motor can be manufactured relatively simply and inexpensively and extends the use of magnetic microscopic wires in microfluidic lab on a chip systems for example. Inexpensive synthesis of magnetic microscopic wires makes them virtually disposable a particularly attractive feature for micro fluidics systems. An additional embodiment of the invention provides an ultra high gradient magnetic separation apparatus.

Referring now to the drawings show a magnetic micromanipulator according to an embodiment of the present invention that utilizes a helical three dimensional micro coil disposed about a generally cylindrical soft magnetic wire terminating in a micro tip for localized positioning of micron sized magnetic objects. The magnetic manipulator shown by example in is preferably fabricated by winding the micro coil for example a small e.g. 25 m diameter copper magnet wire around a small e.g. 50 m diameter soft magnetic wire as a nonlimiting example a soft ferromagnetic wire by a suitable method. The micro coil is electrically isolated from the wire . A preferred winding design of the micro coil includes two radially inner and outer wound helical coil layers of insulated wire such as copper wire though two layers are not required with a number of turns 20 for each layer preferably 6 8 turns though the number of turns may vary. The magnetic wire extends along a central axis and the micro coil includes a helical axis substantially co axial with the central axis of the magnetic wire. The wire of the layers may be insulated by suitable insulation with a thickness of for example 1 5 m thereby permitting the micro coil to be wound closely around the wire .

To create high field gradients for the magnetic micro tip the soft magnetic wire is etched into a sharp probe for example 1 5 m diameter at the end of the tip and may be formed by as a nonlimiting example electrochemically etching in aqueous 40 sulfuric acid solution at 3V. The tip is then positioned in the vicinity of the micro coil as shown in preferably within an approximate distance of the length of one of the turns 20 to be maximally magnetized by the coil fields.

The micro coils and magnetic micro tips are preferred for producing magnetic forces in particle manipulation applications since the forces on a magnetic bead depend on the field dependent magnetization of the bead and the magnetic field gradient at the bead. Since the magnetic field from a coil such as the micro coil is inversely proportional to the coil diameter and the field gradient from the magnetic tip is inversely proportional to the tip dimensions minimization of both of these parameters in the design of the magnetic micro manipulator is advantageous.

In an experimental setup using the magnetic manipulator shown schematically in the tip of the magnetic manipulator was placed on a mechanical stage for positioning the tip above a viewing lens of a dark field optical microscope . The manipulator as shown includes suitable current delivery devices such as leads coupling the coil at ends of the insulated wire to a current source such as a programmable constant current source for tunable operation of the device. The current source preferably allows selective increasing or decreasing of the magnetic field and magnetic field gradients at the tip . Sample particles to be manipulated within a fluid were placed inside a rectangular cross section quartz capillary tube with 40 m capillary wall thickness. Light illumination was coupled to the capillary tube from a 1 mm diameter optical fiber connected to a white light source . The capillary tube containing the magnetic particles was placed between the tip and the lens movably positioned by stages and the tip was positioned within several microns of the outside capillary tube surface. Because of the differences in the index of refraction of the capillary tube and the surrounding air light was confined to the capillary tube and did not illuminate the manipulator tip . Therefore there is no spurious scattering from the tip that would obscure the light scattered from the particles . This has the advantage of de coupling the manipulation component of the experiment from the optical investigation of the samples. In order to demonstrate the manipulation of the samples using the manipulator and the scanning probe 2.8 m superparamagnetic beads were placed into the capillary tube in the fluid and 1 m polystyrene beads were added into the same solution. After finding an area where there were two closely spaced non magnetic beads and using the manipulator with 100 mA current through the micro coil all of the magnetic beads were removed to clear the area. A single one of the magnetic beads was selected to perform a second manipulation demonstration. shows successive images of the magnetic bead manipulated so as to trace a figure eight around the non magnetic beads. The non magnetic polystyrene beads in are 10 m apart and sub micron positioning resolution can be achieved. The high dark background contrast in is due to the illumination method used in the experimental micromanipulation technique. Although the tip of the micromanipulator is very close to the particle there is no observable scattered light from the tip due to the total internal reflection at the outside capillary surface. Forces of 10 pN and sub micron positioning control were demonstrated on the 2.8 m diameter superparamagnetic beads. Stronger forces on particles are possible by for example using the methods of pulsed currents through the micro coil winding additional coil turns or using thinner capillary tube walls.

Preferably the complete manipulator including the micro coils and the soft magnetic wire having the tip without the leads exhibits a volume of less than 1 mm. This allows the manipulator also to be used in various applications requiring magnetic manipulation where miniature size of the manipulator is preferred.

Other embodiments of the invention combine the magnetic manipulator or other device for application of a magnetic field with magnetic wires to provide magneto mechanical tweezers which may be used in a number of applications. These embodiments are based in part on a principle of magneto static attraction or repulsion between two permanent magnets. In preferred embodiments of the invention the magnets are microscopic wires for example having a diameter range of 10 nm 1 m and made of any of various magnetic materials that due to their small size and elongated shape have permanent magnetization single domain along their long axis. When two such wires are brought into proximity of each other they are attracted to or repelled from one another depending on how their magnetizations are oriented.

As one preferred method of opening and closing the tweezers shows a method where application of an external field by a magnetic actuator such as the magnetic micro manipulator or electromagnet or permanent magnet to the tweezers is used to selectively orient the magnetization of the two wires parallel as shown in the top and bottom inset figures or antiparallel as shown in the center inset figure to each other. also shows an example of a hysteresis loop by a high sensitivity magnetometer of two wires demonstrating tuning of magnetization of the two wires to be parallel or antiparallel to each other by application of an external magnetic field. This measurement reveals clear regions of three stable configurations of this magneto static system where the magnetizations of the two wires can be parallel or antiparallel with respect to one another. By placing a boundary condition as a nonlimiting example a flexible adhesive on one side of each of the microscopic wires so that for example the wires are fixed at one end and or joined together at one end and are free to open and close at the other end the tweezers can be opened and closed in a manner similar to macroscale tweezers to mechanically secure and by moving the tweezers manipulate particles.

In addition to purely magnetic microscopic wires alternative embodiments of the present invention provide manufacture of multi component microscopic wire pairs by forming multi component microscopic wires using sequential electro deposition of different materials. Such multi component microscopic wires may include combinations of magnetic and non magnetic metals in cylindrical shape along their length so that the non magnetic cylinders may be joined. One particular application of the multi component microscopic wire pairs is in the studies of biological systems such as molecules that need to be examined by Raman spectroscopy using plasmon resonant enhancement between two silver microscopic wires for example cylindrical wires. It has been predicted that the electromagnetic field enhancement is significantly increased when the two metal preferably silver cylindrical surfaces are within close proximity on the order of Angstroms to each other. For spectroscopy the electromagnetic enhancement effect typically only applies to the silver nanowire with diameters of 1 100 nm for example. However intentionally bringing two metallic cylinders together for such purposes has not been practically possible.

Manipulation of magnetic objects by the micro manipulator as described above can be extended to applying torques and forces on a magnetic single domain particle inside a fluid. For example the micro manipulator and single domain particle can act together as a micro fluidic micro motor as shown in . Magnetic micro motors with sub millimeter dimensions have conventionally been fabricated by semiconductor processing techniques. An embodiment of the present invention miniaturizes and simplifies micro motor design by arranging a plurality as shown three magnetic manipulators with micro manipulator coils and tips into a symmetrical as shown an equilateral triangle arrangement as shown in to form a multi as shown three phase stator . The three phase stator of the micro motor is brought into proximity for example within the size of the stator of the single domain particle preferably but not necessarily positioned outside of a fluid while the individual single domain particle such as the magnetic microscopic wire placed in the fluid acts as the rotor. The single domain particle of the rotor may be for example a cylindrical nickel particle 40 m long and 1 m in diameter fabricated by electro deposition of nickel into a porous nano channel membrane such as a membrane similar to the membrane . After electrodeposition the particle is released into the fluid contained in a capillary tube for example by chemically etching the substrate the membrane in weak acetic acid. Fabrication of the columnar magnetic single domain particles by electrodeposition into porous membranes is an attractive feature since various porous membrane hosts are now available including nano channel glass array anodized alumina and polycarbonate membranes. The fact that the particle is permanently magnetized also allows for both attractive and repulsive forces to be applied to the particle from the soft magnetic poles the tips of the stator . In order to confirm that these magnetic particles were magnetically single domain a square hysteresis loop of an individual particle was measured using ultra high sensitivity magnetometry sample results of which are shown .

In an exemplary method of use the stator was placed over the particle using a mechanical positioning stage . Micro coils of the stator were individually connected to a current driver having separate current amplifiers controlled by independent digital computer D A channels. The control channels for the current driver were programmed so that the electric currents through the three micro coils were sinusoidally driven at a 120 degree phase difference in respect to each other three phase motor as shown in . This arrangement of the currents provided the sinusoidal attractive and repulsive forces to be applied to the magnetic rotor resulting in the rotational motion of the single domain particle as observed by an optical microscope . shows a composite sequence of images demonstrating one full rotation of the single domain particle rotor . The peak current used in the micro coils was 100 mA and with a coil resistance of approximately 1 Ohm no heating problems were observed during the operation. The rotation of the motor could be reversed by simultaneously reversing the currents in any two of the stator coils. An exemplary motor was able to spin the motor at 250 rpm in a water solution inside a capillary tube limited only by the available rate of our computer generated sinusoidal currents to the three micro coils. Much higher rotational speeds are potentially attainable by for example using advanced three phase motor controllers due to the small mass and rotational moment of inertia of the rotor as well as the low inductance of the micro coils and ferromagnetic micro tips.

A magnetic micro motor such as the micro motor shown and described adds potential new components to the list of available tools for lab on a chip microfluidic systems for drug delivery cell separation and biomedical diagnostics. For microfluidics systems in particular electrostatic principles that are often used for actuation can interfere with the ionic nature of the fluids. Electric isolation provided by the magnetic motors of the present invention can potentially alleviate this interference problem in fluid flow control and mixing. For example show exemplary components in a microfluidic system. The present invention is not intended to be limited to a particular system however. shows a micro stirrer having a rotor preferably similar to the magnetic micro particle of the micro motor . The micro stirrer is disposed within a fluid contained in a chamber which may contain one or more particles . A stator not shown in disposed outside or inside of the fluid operates to rotate the micro stirrer and manipulate the fluid.

As other exemplary embodiments of microfluidic components a rotor may also form part of a micro pump as shown by example in in a pump chamber for moving the fluid and particles from an inlet chamber to an outlet chamber connected by one or more channels . shows a rotor employed as a micro valve disposed between an inlet port and first and second outlet ports . The micro valve can be rotated for example between a first position the left diagram for directing the fluid to the first outlet port and a second position the right diagram for directing the fluid to the second outlet port . It is to be understood that the components shown in are exemplary and other components for manipulating particles and fluid in a microfluidic system are contemplated by the present invention.

Other embodiments of the present invention use magnetic wires to manipulate particles by separating one or more particles from a fluid and or from other particles. In conventional uses of magnetic wires in MEMS applications the magnetization of the wires is along the wire long axis. However as shown in a magnetic wire for example a ferromagnetic wire can be a source of strong gradient fields along the entire length of the wire if an external field is used to orient the magnetization shown as arrows as perpendicular to the wire long axis.

According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention this principle is used in ultra high gradient magnetic separation applications where a fluid of interest is passed through a magnetized wire mesh. Current high gradient magnetic separation techniques use larger wire mesh sizes or larger magnetic spheres for sources of magnetic fields and field gradients. The magnetic forces depend inversely on the diameter of the magnetic wires and therefore the smaller the wire diameter the stronger the magnetic field gradients and magnetic forces will be. Partially filled membranes with nanoscopic pores will therefore apply higher magnetic separation forces to the magnetic particles being separated from a solution. This technique also allows for chemical isolation of the ferromagnetic wires from the capillaries through which the solution moves.

According to an embodiment of this aspect of the present invention a nano porous membrane as shown in partially filled with magnetic wires provides a magnetic separation filter for magnetic separation. The magnetic separation membrane allows for a higher magnetic separation force to be applied to magnetic particles or beads being separated from a solution . In application the membrane provides efficient separation of the particles from the solution .

Preferred embodiments of the membrane allow for chemical isolation of magnetic wires from capillaries through which the solution moves. Furthermore since the method embodied in this membrane is based on the use of micro channel technologies the magnetic separation membrane and method is well suited to be implemented into microfluidic and MEMS designs. These preferred embodiments are based on magnetic separation principles where the magnetic particle or bead is attracted magnetically to the magnetized magnetic wire .

Preferably the magnetic separation filter is fabricated by partially filling holes or pores of the porous membrane with a magnetic material by for example electrodeposition or melt injection to form the magnetic wires for example in a cylindrical shape. There exist various several already established membrane systems that could be used for the porous membrane and electro deposition methods for filling the holes are known by those in the art. The diameter of the pores and columns can be tuned down to very small diameters e.g. down to 1 nm and the distance from the wires to the empty pores are preferably made very small. Additionally the membranes in the porous membrane can be made very sturdy and their thickness can preferably be tuned. The empty pores where the solution moves are preferably chemically isolated from the magnetic wires that provide for magnetic separation.

As shown in the magnetic beads on the left are preferably engineered to bind to specific sites molecules proteins viruses bacteria impurities or other materials and are mixed with the solution on the right to form a combined solution having sites with bound particles and sites without bound particles. After the binding process the combined solution is passed through the ultra high gradient magnetic filter the membrane . An external magnetic field is applied parallel to the surface of the membrane in order to magnetize the magnetic wires as shown by arrows . In the filter the particle bound to the magnetic bead is trapped on the walls of capillaries while the unbound units are passed through. The trapped particles can later be released by removing the external magnetic field. This preferred embodiment of the present invention may used for application such as but not limited to the biomedical field of separation of molecules proteins viruses bacteria cells impurities etc including the integration of such a system into microfluidic or MEMS systems.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

