---

title: Modifications of mechanically adjustable support device
abstract: A mechanical support device assembly having a base ring, a shear washer, an adjustable riser and a lenticular washer. The adjustable riser and the lenticular washer fit together in a concave-convex manner. The shear washer fits in the base ring, and the frustum on the upper surface of the adjustable riser is adjacent the concave surface and continuous with it. The shear washer and the frustum provide support to fastener running through the assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07819375&OS=07819375&RS=07819375
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07819375
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 907 162 filed on Mar. 23 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to support for machinery and more particularly relates to a mechanically adjustable support device for machinery that provides support for machinery and support for an internal fastener during a sudden external shock event and or fatigue loading.

Various types of machinery support devices have been around for years. In its simplest form a machinery support consists of one or more machinery feet resting on one or more foundations with one or more fastener assemblies at each location to hold the machinery in place. However machinery feet and foundations themselves are seldom adequately level and parallel. Thus machinery support devices are added between each foot and the foundation to allow independent adjustments to be made to compensate for misalignment of the height and parallelism between each foot and the foundation. One prior art device often used was to place machined block shims not show between the feet of the supported machinery and the machinery foundation. However the adjustment process required that the shims be repeatedly machined and checked until adequate support i.e. alignment of both the height and parallelism had been achieved. This adjustment process has been laborious and expensive.

Fastener assemblies have been used to attach the machinery feet to the foundation. The fastener assembly fits through an opening hole in each of the feet in the machinery the corresponding support device and the foundation. The fastener opening can be and often is limited as to clearance around the fastener. In the event of a large lateral load such as can be developed due to an external shock the slip planes between the foot and the shim and between the shim and the foundation will try to slide. The limited clearance around the fastener will prevent significant lateral motion. Thus the fastener will be stressed in shear only. Fasteners are routinely sized to accept this shear stress without failing.

In addition the shim is much stiffer than the fastener. With standard preload techniques the shim carries any cyclic loading such as can be developed by sea way motions thus eliminating fatigue issues.

To resolve the expense with the repeated machine and check adjustment process described above a recent prior art support system has been developed. It is a mechanically adjustable support device otherwise known as a Viacom mechanically adjustable chock MAC V which is shown in . The MAC V assembly has three separate and distinct parts a base ring an adjustable riser and a lenticular washer resting on the adjustable riser . Base ring is threaded on the inside. The adjustable riser can be threaded into base ring to provide for height adjustment. The height adjustment of the adjustable riser can be locked by using an optional set screw .

The adjustable riser and the lenticular washer have mating concave convex spherical surfaces that permit an angular adjustment between the two parts to compensate for foundation and machinery foot being out of parallel. The lenticular washer provides for the ability to compensate for this slight angular misalignment of the foot of the machinery relative to the foundation upon which the machinery rests.

An opening receives a fastener through the lenticular washer . In order to prevent interference between the lenticular washer and fastener when the lenticular washer slides sideways to adjust for angular misalignment the opening is larger than the opening in the adjustable riser . This difference in opening sizes results in an unsupported length of fastener equal to the height of lenticular washer between the adjustable riser and the machine foot . In addition when the adjustable riser within the ring base is adjusted upward there can be an unsupported length of fastener between the foundation and adjustable riser equal to the adjustment height.

One problem with the MAC V is that in the event of a large lateral load such as may occur during a sudden external shock the slip planes between the foot and the lenticular washer and between the foundation and the ring base will slide past each other in the same way as the shim except that since there are long unsupported spans between the related parts the fastener can develop a significant degree of bending stress at each unsupported span. It has been determined that in order to limit the stress on the fastener in MAC V to the same degree of as the shim method the shear load carrying capacity of the MAC V must be limited by about 45 .

Another problem with the MAC V is that the stiffness of the joint relative to the stiffness of the fastener is much lower than with the shim support method. When cyclic loading is an issue as it can be due to sea way motions on a ship the fatigue life of the fastener in the MAC V must be specifically addressed by calculation rather than using a set preload as with the shim. The fatigue life of the fastener may be significantly lessened by comparison to the shim method and the ability to withstand large axial loads is similarly reduced.

The present invention is providing improvements to the MAC V in order to overcome possible bending stresses and fatigue life to the fasteners.

Referring to an improved mechanically adjustable chock MAC I is shown between a machinery foot and a foundation . The MAC I consists of four parts a shear washer a base ring an adjustable riser and a lenticular washer resting on the adjustable riser .

The base ring is partially or completely threaded on the inside. It can be constructed of steel cast iron or other metallic material or it can be constructed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads. It has features for example partial openings holes that are used to apply a torque. It may have means to lock the threads after adjustment of the adjustable riser such as by having a threaded opening to permit use of an optional set screw . It may have means to lock the threads of the shear washer after installation such as by having a threaded opening hole to permit use of an optional set screw as shown in and or by other suitable means. The height of the base ring must be sufficient to permit installation of the shear washer an adjustable riser and additional height to permit a defined amount of adjustability.

The shear washer fits into the bottom of the base ring . It can be constructed of steel cast iron or other metallic material or it can be constructed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads. In addition to the threaded installation shown in the shear washer can be installed in a rabbit installed as a cup around the base ring installed as an integral piece with the base ring or installed by other similar means. shows shear washer as tapered from a thick portion surrounding the fastener to a thinner portion that can be attach or otherwise secured to the base ring . The thickness of the shear washer at the fastener opening is selected to carry the shear load and is a function of the material properties of the shear washer and the fastener . The taper angle as shown in is between 90 and 0 as shown in and is selected as desired to minimize overall stack up height of the MAC I while still carrying the shear load. The taper need not be linear but can be a non linear taper e.g. a partially curved taper. The shear washer can be locked against adverse rotation by using an optional set screw as shown in and or by other suitable means.

The adjustable riser is partially or completely threaded on the outside. It can be constructed of steel cast iron or other metallic material or it can be constructed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads. It has means for example partial openings holes that are used to apply a torque. The height of the threads on adjustable riser must be sufficient to permit installation into base ring and additional height to permit a defined amount of adjustability to the height of the MAC I. The bottom surface of adjustable riser is tapered to receive mate with the tapered part of the shear washer when tapered. This results in angle being approximately equal to angle .

The top surface of adjustable riser has a concave spherical recess which mates with a convex spherical lower surface on the lenticular washer . Around the fastener opening in adjustable riser there is a shear support frustum . The height of the frustum portion is designed to maximally fill the span between the concave surface outer support portion of adjustable riser and the machinery foot . The thickness of the top surface of the frustum is as thick as needed in order to support the required shear loads and to optimize manufacturability. The taper angle of the frustum is minimized as a function of the material properties and manufacturability in order to maximize the contact between the concave convex surfaces of the adjustable riser and lenticular washer while still maintaining the ability to carry the required shear loads. For typical materials the angle is in the range of 45 20 degrees. The taper need not be linear. The top surface of the frustum may also be concave spherical not shown to receive a smaller convex spherical lenticular washer not shown which has a center of rotation equal to the lenticular washer . Together the two washers present a more continuous adjustable surface. The frustum can be an integral part of the rest of adjustable riser or can be attached by threading into a suitable opening in the adjustable riser or by other similar means.

The lenticular washer is round with a circular opening in the middle. The inner length of the lenticular washer adjacent the frustum is tapered to match the frustum when the lenticular washer is adjusted to its maximum design adjustment angle. The lenticular washer has a convex spherical bottom surface which mates with the concave spherical surface on adjustable riser . The top surface of the lenticular washer is planar. The lenticular washer can be constructed of steel cast iron or other metallic material or it can be constructed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads. The gap between the outer edge of the top surface of the frustum and the opening in the top surface of adjustable riser is sized to allow sufficient lateral displacement of the adjustable riser in order to permit the required adjustability for the non parallelism between the foot and the foundation . The angle of the tapered gap between frustum and the tapered length of the adjustable riser is approximately equal to the desired angular adjustability.

Fastener assembly consists of two strength heads nuts two washers where needed and the fastener shaft. It can be composed of steel or other metallic material or it can be composed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads.

Referring to another embodiment of the improved mechanically adjustable chock MAC I is shown between a machinery foot and a foundation . This embodiment of the MAC I consists of four parts a modified shear washer a base ring a modified adjustable riser and a lenticular washer resting on the modified adjustable riser . The lower threaded portion is not changed from the first embodiment as shown in .

The modified shear washer is doubly cylindrical with an opening for the fastener assembly through the center. The shear washer is L shaped having a lower end with a large diameter and an upper end with a small outer diameter. The outside surfaces are fully or partially threaded. The lower end fits into the base ring . The L shaped cross section comprises a substantially vertical portion having a back portion and a threaded portion the threaded portion of the L shaped cross section forming a threaded bore with the partially or completely threaded internal opening and the threaded bottom portion of the adjustable riser threadedly mates in the threaded bore. In addition to threaded installation as shown the modified shear washer can be installed in a rabbit installed as a cup around the base ring installed as an integral piece with the base ring or installed by other similar means. It can be constructed of steel cast iron or other metallic material or it can be constructed of a ceramic or composite material or any other material sufficiently strong and tough to carry the loads. The threads when present on the lower end and upper end are of the same pitch to allow both surfaces to mate with similar threads on base ring and the modified adjustable riser . The height of the end of the lower end set to be sufficient to carry the design shear loads and may be tapered as in the first embodiment as show in to minimize overall stack up height. The diameter of the upper end is set to assure that its axial stiffness is substantially greater than 2 times the stiffness of the same length of fastener shaft and will be dependant on the materials chosen. The height of the upper end is set so that the part threaded into the modified adjustable riser will carry the axial loads distributed to the modified shear washer by the modified adjustable riser and to permit a defined amount of adjustability.

The modified adjustable riser is in all ways similar to the adjustable riser of except that there is a opening inserted into the bottom surface of the adjustable riser to accept the upper end of the modified shear washer . The depth of the opening is approximately equal to the height to the upper end of shear washer . The inside surface of the opening is threaded with the same pitch as the upper end of the modified shear washer and also with the threaded outer surface of adjustable riser . The lenticular washer is in all ways the same as the first embodiment as shown in .

Obviously other modifications and variations of the present invention may be possible in light of the foregoing teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

