---

title: Systems and methods for nuclear event circumvention in an inertial device
abstract: Systems and methods with the ability to raise the set point temperature immediately after a temperature increase due to radiation exposure, thereby reducing T-dot (rate of change in temperature) errors when trying to cool the inertial system back to its original set point temperature. An example system includes an inertial instrument, a sensor that senses if an increased temperature event has been experienced by the inertial instrument, and a controller device that will increase the set point temperature of the inertial instrument based on the determined increase in temperature. The controller device will also maintain the inertial instrument at a temperature associated with at least one of the sensed increased temperature event or the increased set point temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580300&OS=09580300&RS=09580300
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 09580300
owner_city: Morris Plains
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080207
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA9453 05 C 0241 awarded by Air Force Research Labs. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Gamma radiation exposures from nuclear weapons raises the temperature of inertial instruments. Certain kinds of inertial instruments most notably Vibrating Beam Accelerometers VBAs exhibit measurement errors due to not just this change in temperature but also the rate of change of temperature T dot .

High accuracy inertial instruments are temperature controlled to eliminate errors due to temperature drift. In many kinds of instruments T dot induces greater errors than does the absolute temperature change. Since it is impossible to prevent an initial sudden rate of temperature change due to pulsed gamma ray exposure the usual approach is to try when possible to rapidly return the instrument to its set point temperature. However the rate of change of temperature while returning the unit to the set point may induce errors greater than those resulting from the absolute change of temperature.

As shown in consider a typical VBA with a proof mass attached to a mechanically stable member by some kind of elastic hinge . Heating due to radiation is quite different. Radiation causes consistent heating throughout the proof mass and stable member . Since the proof mass and stable member are usually made from the same material the temperature increase throughout the two masses will be very nearly equal with the major difference being due to unequal exposures of the two masses. The small gradients would produce small strains with a consequently small error. When the unit is thermally stabilized post thermal increase event there are no temperature gradients across the hinge . When the temperature controller attempts to lower the temperature of the instrument initially heat will begin to flow out of the stable member and a temperature gradient will form across the length of the device x axis . Then after some delay heat will begin to flow through the hinge creating a significant gradient. This gradient will continue to exist while the heat is removed from the proof mass see . Since the hinge has a relatively small cross sectional area the process can take quite a while. During this time the thermal gradients across the hinge will result in a change in the strains within the hinge and thereby inducing errors into the movement of the proof mass .

The present invention provides an inertial system with the ability to raise the set point temperature immediately after a temperature increase due to radiation exposure thereby reducing T dot rate of change in temperature errors when trying to cool the inertial system back to its original set point temperature.

In one example embodiment the system includes an inertial instrument a sensor that senses if an increased temperature event has been experienced by the inertial instrument and a controller device that will increase the set point temperature of the inertial instrument based on the determined increase in temperature. The controller device will also maintain the inertial instrument at a temperature associated with at least one of the sensed increased temperature event or the increased set point temperature.

In one aspect of the invention the inertial instrument includes one or more vibrating beam accelerometers. One of the one or more vibrating beam accelerometers includes a proof mass a stable member and at least one hinge configured to flexibly attach the proof mass to the stable member within a housing.

In another aspect of the invention the sensor comprises one or more temperature sensors and or radiation sensors. The temperature associated with at least one of the sensed increased temperature event or the increased set point temperature is based on a radiation value from the radiation sensor.

In still another aspect of the invention the system includes a device that determines acceleration values based on signals produced by the one or more vibrating beam accelerometers and the increased set point temperature.

In yet another aspect of the invention the controller device includes a heating device that applies heat to at least one of a cavity within the housing or the stable member.

In still yet another aspect of the invention the controller device maintains the inertial instrument at the temperature associated with at least one of the sensed increased temperature event or the increased set point temperature after effects of the increased temperature event are no longer experienced.

The VBA is shown in a cut away view with the cover removed. The VBA includes a proof mass connected to a stable member via a hinge mechanism . The proof mass hinge and stable member are all formed of a monolithic material in a mechanism layer e.g. selectively doped Silicon quartz elgiloy or any other comparable material . The parts may also be non monlithic. The stable member is held in a stable position within a housing with the proof mass being able to move in response to a sensed force within a cavity formed by the housing .

The temperature sensor is located either inside the housing in proximity to the housing or in a location with the ability to be thermally connected with the proof mass hinge and stable member . In another embodiment the radiation sensor is located proximate to the housing or within the housing . The thermal controller processor is in data communication with the temperature sensor and radiation sensor . The thermal controller processor includes at least a heating unit that has the ability to control temperature experienced by the VBA .

The thermal controller processor also receives signals from the VBA for outputting acceleration signals based on the received signals from the VBA . The thermal controller processor will raise the set point temperature of the VBA for analysis of signals received from the VBA if an increased temperature is sensed by the temperature sensor or a radiation event was sensed based on a signal sent by the radiation sensor . Also the thermal controller processor will increase the temperature sensed by the VBA so that when a determined radiation event ceases to exist the temperature of the device is maintained at the radiation induced temperature so that the VBA can operate relative to the new increased set point temperature.

As shown in an example process is performed by the system shown in . First at block the system operates at a predefined set point. At a decision block the thermal controller processor determines if a radiation event has occurred that increases the temperature of the components of the VBA . If no radiation event is determined to have occurred then the process returns to block . An increased temperature event is determined to have occurred based on temperature information from the temperature sensor or information received by the radiation sensor . The thermal controller processor increases the set point of the VBA based on determination of an increased temperature event see block . Next at block the thermal controller processor maintains the VBA at or within a threshold limit of the sensed temperature or a temperature value associated with the radiation sensor information. The VBA is maintained at the increased temperature associated with the increased set point even after the effects of the increased temperature event are no longer experienced. The system continues to operate in this manner until the system is de activated or an operational state allows the system to be cooled thus returning operation to the original setpoint.

Because the thermal controller processor raises the set point temperature and the temperature of the VBA is maintained at the higher temperature the heat flow patterns will not change as much as they would if the VBA was cooled back down to its original set point temperature. Thus consequently errors due to temperature gradients and T dot will be reduced.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example any number or combination of temperature and radiation sensors may be used. Also the thermal controller processor may be separate units one to control heating of the VBA and one to process signals produced by the VBA. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

