---

title: Managing dependencies among objects of a system for energy conservation
abstract: Under the present solution, dependencies and relationships of objects are stored and are updatable by consumers and optionally manufacturers through a local UI or web interface. These dependencies and relationships are stored in a “collection profile” which describes the capabilities of objects. When a request to reduce energy is received the system can query the collection profile to determine the downstream effect of reducing energy to a single object. The collection profile will identify which other objects rely on that object and would also need to have energy reduced. Being able to identify these linkages and effects of changes across the system will be critical for good energy management.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08214671&OS=08214671&RS=08214671
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08214671
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
The present application is related in some aspects to commonly owned and co pending application entitled Framework for Managing Consumption of Energy which was filed on Sep. 11 2008 and was assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 208 422 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. The present application is also related in some aspects to commonly owned and co pending application entitled Policy Based Energy Management which was filed on Sep. 11 2008 and was assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 208 510 the entire contents of which re herein incorporated by reference.

This invention discloses an approach for managing dependencies among objects e.g. devices of a system. Specifically the present invention provides a solution for energy management using linkages among objects.

As energy prices continue to rise companies and individuals are seeking ways to reduce consumption and manage shortage situations. Currently methods for managing energy shortage situations are limited as managing energy usage of objects in an infrastructure is a nascent industry. A few early solutions include WebSphere XD which allows application servers to be tuned down to lower energy consumption modes WebSphere is a trademark of IBM Corp. in the United States and or other countries and objects may be connected to home appliances e.g. air conditioner that allow the energy company to turn off energy to the appliance when a shortage occurs. This only enables an on off situation for selected objects. Currently energy is provided to all objects in an equal manner. In a true utility fashion when an object is connected to the energy grid at a residence or place of business energy is indiscriminately supplied to that object. There is no preference given to one object over another.

In view of the foregoing there exists a need for an approach that solves at least one of the deficiencies in the related art.

For optimal efficiency in an energy management system it is beneficial to control the energy throttling among all objects in an intelligent manner. For enterprise and consumer environments many objects can be linked and are dependent on each other. As such adjustment of one piece of a system can have downstream effects on other items. For example a swimming pool can have multiple dependent objects such as a filter a chemical dispenser a heater etc. Being able to identify these linkages and effects of changes across the system will be critical for the energy manager. Under the present solution dependencies and relationships are stored and are updatable by consumers and optionally manufacturers through a local user interface UI or web interface. These dependencies and relationships are stored in a collection profile which describes the capabilities of objects. When a request to reduce energy is received the system can query the collection profile to determine the downstream effect of reducing energy to a single object. The collection profile will identify which other objects rely on that object and would also need to have energy reduced.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a method for managing linkages among objects of a system comprising identifying a set of objects in the system creating linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receiving an energy conservation request and managing energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a system for managing linkages among objects of a system comprising a module for identifying a set of objects in the system a module for creating linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects a module for receiving an energy conservation request and a module for managing energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

A third aspect of the present invention provides a computer readable medium containing a program product for managing linkages among objects of a system the computer readable medium comprising program code for causing a computer system to identify a set of objects in the system create linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receive an energy conservation request and manage energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a method for deploying a system for managing linkages among objects of a system comprising deploying a computer infrastructure being operable to identify a set of objects in the system create linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receive an energy conservation request and manage energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

A fifth aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for managing linkages among objects of a system comprising identifying a set of objects in the system creating linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receiving an energy conservation request and managing energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

A sixth aspect of the present invention provides a data processing system for managing linkages among objects of a system comprising a memory medium comprising instructions a bus coupled to the memory medium and a processor coupled to the bus that when executing the instructions causes the data processing system to identify a set of objects in the system create linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receive an energy conservation request and manage energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

 Object any device group of devices organization using devices or software program running on a device that consumes energy.

As indicated above for optimal efficiency in an energy management system it is beneficial to control the energy throttling among all objects in an intelligent manner. For enterprise and consumer environments many objects can be linked and are dependent on each other. As such adjustment of one piece of a system can have downstream effects on other items. For example a swimming pool can have multiple dependent objects such as a filter a chemical dispenser a heater etc. Being able to identify these linkages and effects of changes across the system will be critical for the energy manager. Under the present solution dependencies and relationships are stored and are updatable by consumers and optionally manufacturers through a local UI or web interface. These dependencies and relationships are stored in a collection profile which describes the capabilities of objects. When a request to reduce energy is received the system can query the collection profile to determine the downstream effect of reducing energy to a single object. The collection profile will identify which other objects rely on that object and would also need to have energy reduced. Being able to identify these linkages and effects of changes across the system will be critical for good energy management.

Referring now to a framework hierarchy is shown. is to demonstrate among other things that the present invention could be implemented in conjunction with any hierarchy of objects regardless of complexity. In the example shown energy control management systems energy control manager hereinafter PCM are utilized on multiple levels. Municipality PCM works in conjunction with business park PCM hospital PCM and community infrastructure PCM . Further business park PCM interacts with business A PCM and business B PCM each of which controls energy consumption with their own objects and . Similarly hospital PCM controls energy consumption by objects . Community infrastructure PCM is shown interacting with police department PCM school PCM and fire department PCM which among themselves manage objects and . As can be seen a PCM under the present invention can not only interact with objects but also with other PCMs.

Referring now to the functions of a PCM will be described. As used in entities A N represent any business object that has one or more component object. Sample entities may include a hospital business or municipality. As such devices A N are each a piece of the overall system who s energy may be throttled. This may be a particular software application piece of IT hardware server storage networking switch etc. or other hardware life support equipment refrigerator etc. . As further depicted PCM has a set of application programming interfaces APIs A N which allow communication to occur between PCM and devices A N and or entities A N. Although not shown in an API would also allow PCM to interface with another PCM. Heterogeneous devices from different vendors may have very different interfaces. The technology described herein will interface to different devices or to any known or future energy management standard. For example the interface to communicate with IBM WebSphere XD software WebSphere is a trademark of IBM Corp in the United States and or other countries may differ greatly from the interface for a medical device to manage energy to an anesthesia machine which would differ from the interface to a refrigerator.

Under the present invention each object entity etc. is identified and enrolled into the system. This may occur manually through auto discovery by PCM or by device A N self enrolling to PCM . Once enrolled PCM maintains a database of objects and their attributes. Sample object attributes are as follows 

Regardless this functionality may be implemented with a single energy management server groups of servers or a hierarchy of servers. A hierarchy is the preferred embodiment for an enterprise system as that allows for delegation.

Once the objects have been identified a consumer or system administrator will creates linkages among the objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects. In general the identification and or linking of devices can be accomplished by accessing or querying a set of collection profiles. In general collection profiles describe the capabilities of objects including but not limited to 

These collection profiles could be stored centrally in a database that is attached to the management system or they could be embedded locally in each object. If embedded locally the collection profile would require persistent memory or storage in each object. Many objects in the home already have this type of persistent storage thermostats computers home automation systems controlling lights and other objects etc. . Those objects that don t have this capability would require new function from the manufacturer or an in line object between the energy cable and the outlet known in the art.

In addition to storing the collection profile a communications protocol with an accompanying API is employed to query the object s collection profile.

To detect object dependencies the system would query the collection profiles stored either locally in a database or query the network for all existing objects using the APIs described earlier. Detection could then be automatic in determining what objects are present. In this system every object would have a universal unique identifier UNID and typically a manufacturer s part number. If a new object was detected the system would query external systems on the internet for default collection profile information. After that step or in the event it is unknown the user is then given the option to customize or accept the default collection profile. Since many consumers have unique situations and dependencies among objects this gives them an opportunity to optimize the collection profile.

Referring to an example of linked objects is shown. In this example the objects are devices A N. As shown device B is linked to device A device C is linked to device B and devices D and N are each linked to device C. Also shown in is a set of policies . As will be further described below these policies dictate how energy will be conserved in shortage situations.

Regardless once all the objects are identified and dependencies and relationships are established the system will then be able to display those dependencies upon query and take actions based on energy reduction requests. From the perspective of the overall system or an outside request to reduce energy there exists logical or physical groupings of objects rather than individual objects themselves. In addition each of these collections will have an Energy Policy such as policies of . An in depth discussion of such policies is discussed in the above incorporated patent applications. Once the system determines which collection of objects needs to reduce its energy consumption the management system will apply simultaneous requests to each of the related objects in that collection according to the collection profile. In a typical embodiment a graphical interface such as that shown in will display all objects and collections of objects. Graphical interface will enable the user to easily modify or create dependencies and relationships among them and assign priorities energy policies .

One example is a consumer swimming pool that has water heaters chemical dispensers water filters lights patio heater and water pumps. A consumer may consider the swimming pool to be a noncritical system in the event of an energy shortage. These systems all work together and if energy is shut off from the water filter it may make little sense to supply energy to the heating and pump systems. The pump and heating systems may have dependences on the current temperature or thermometers while the chemical and cleaning systems may have dependencies on the pumps the heating system may have a relationship to the electric pool cover position and so forth. The system may shut off underwater lights and heater together. If more energy still needs to be throttled then shut off the pump as a secondary dependency.

Another example involves an enterprise environment that could be managed at the software level load balancer Enterprise Workload Manager EWLM linked to web server cluster linked to DB2 database or hardware level air conditioners linked to a section of the data center linked to specific servers linked to lights etc . Powering off enough servers in a defined section may lead to turning off the air conditioner for that section along with the lights etc.

Referring now to a computerized implementation of the present invention is shown. As depicted implementation includes computer system PCM deployed within a computer infrastructure . This is intended to demonstrate among other things that the present invention could be implemented within a network environment e.g. the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN etc. or on a stand alone computer system. In the case of the former communication throughout the network can occur via any combination of various types of communications links. For example the communication links can comprise addressable connections that may utilize any combination of wired and or wireless transmission methods. Where communications occur via the Internet connectivity could be provided by conventional TCP IP sockets based protocol and an Internet service provider could be used to establish connectivity to the Internet. Still yet computer infrastructure is intended to demonstrate that some or all of the components of implementation could be deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider who offers to implement deploy and or perform the functions of the present invention for others.

Computer system is intended to represent any type of computer system that may be implemented in deploying realizing the teachings recited herein. In this particular example computer system represents an illustrative system that could represent a Policy Manager. It should be understood that any other computers implemented under the present invention will have similar components but may perform different functions have different software. As shown computer system includes a processing unit a memory a bus and device interfaces . Further computer system is shown communicating with one or more external devices that communicate with bus via device interfaces. In general processing unit executes computer program code such linkage program which is stored in memory and or storage system . While executing computer program code processing unit can read and or write data to from memory storage system and or device interfaces . Bus provides a communication link between each of the components in computer system . Although not shown computer system could also include I O interfaces that communicate with one or more external devices such as a kiosk a checkout station a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Although not shown computer system could contain multiple processing units.

Computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in one embodiment computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over a network to perform the various processes of the invention. Moreover computer system is only representative of various possible computer systems that can include numerous combinations of hardware. To this extent in other embodiments computer system can comprise any specific purpose computing article of manufacture comprising hardware and or computer program code for performing specific functions any computing article of manufacture that comprises a combination of specific purpose and general purpose hardware software or the like. In each case the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively. Moreover processing unit may comprise a single processing unit or be distributed across one or more processing units in one or more locations e.g. on a client and server. Similarly memory and or storage system can comprise any combination of various types of data storage and or transmission media that reside at one or more physical locations. Further device interfaces can comprise any module for exchanging information with one or more external devices. Still further it is understood that one or more additional components e.g. system software math co processing unit etc. not shown in can be included in computer system .

Storage system can be any type of system capable of providing storage for information under the present invention. To this extent storage system could include one or more storage devices such as magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. In another embodiment storage system includes data distributed across for example a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or a storage area network SAN not shown . In addition although not shown additional components such as cache memory communication systems system software etc. may be incorporated into computer system .

Shown in memory of computer system is linkage program which has a set of modules . Set of modules generally provide the functions of the present invention as described herein. Specifically among other things set of modules is configured to identify a set of objects in the system create linkages among the set of objects based on known dependencies and relationships between the objects receive an energy conservation request and manage energy to the set of objects based on associated energy policies and the linkages.

While shown and described herein as an approach for managing linkages among objects it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure to manage linkages among objects. To this extent the computer readable useable medium contains program code that implements each of the various processes of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprises one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or storage system e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. and or as a data signal e.g. a propagated signal traveling over a network e.g. during a wired wireless electronic distribution of the program code .

In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to provide management of linkages among objects. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure that performs the process of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customers under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method to enable a computer infrastructure to manage linkages among objects. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure can be provided and one or more systems for performing the process of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the process of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic device system driver for a particular computing and or device and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code can be provided hereunder and can include at least one processor communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include but are not limited to local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or device devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening device controllers.

Network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems remote printers storage devices and or the like through any combination of intervening private or public networks. Illustrative network adapters include but are not limited to modems cable modems and Ethernet cards.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

