---

title: Wireless electronic vehicle window display system
abstract: The invention of the wireless electronic vehicle window display system employs the latest technology in electronic paper and low power consumption wireless networking devices. One contemplated embodiment of the present invention consists of three main components: A vehicle information portal, an electronic vehicle window display system subscriber, and the electronic paper. The invention is intended to provide an effective method of displaying pricing, vehicle specifications, promotions, and warranties on vehicles at the dealer's lot. The invention removes the time-consuming and costly tasks of updating information on the current paper-based window sticker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510155&OS=08510155&RS=08510155
owner: CDMData, LLC
number: 08510155
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Pat. No. 60 940 925 filed on May 30 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Although incorporated by reference in its entirety no arguments or disclaimers made in this provisional application apply to this non provisional application. Any disclaimer that may have occurred in the disclosure of the above referenced application is hereby expressly rescinded.

The field of the invention is related to vehicle sale information displays or commonly known as Window Stickers and buyer s guide.

Generally known methods of displaying specific vehicle information to the consumer all involve paper based methods and products. Indeed Paper based Vehicle Documents have been the standard information display mechanism at the product for decades. Aside from the dealer s Web site automobile publications targeted general advertisements or manufacturer and dealer television spots and brochures the window sticker and hang tag are the only other means of presenting specific vehicle information to the buyer.

The ability to electronically change information has been around for many years. Examples of these can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 6 894 615 and 5 929 770 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. However these prior art fail to address the need to provide a wireless electronic window sticker to replace paper based window sticker products.

All referenced patents applications and literatures are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Furthermore where a definition or use of a term in a reference which is incorporated by reference herein is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply. The invention may seek to satisfy one or more of the above mentioned desires. Although the present invention may obviate one or more of the above mentioned desires it should be understood that some aspects of the invention might not necessarily obviate them.

Each vehicle presented for sale on an automobile dealer s lot must display specific information such as vehicle specifications pricing and promotions to the buying public by means of a vehicle window sticker and Buyer s Guide warranty . Going forward all references to Window Stickers and Buyer s Guides will be referred to as Vehicle Documents. The Vehicle Documents are daylight readable and mounted within the vehicle behind the window glass. Currently all automotive window stickers are paper based single application and single use. Application and removal of the current window stickers are time consuming laborious and prone to errors which require re stickering as in when a displayed vehicle price change is requested. In addition where more and more importance is being placed on finding environmentally friendly business practices the current paper based window stickers waste significant paper resources and associated printing ink.

The value of a vehicle changes over time. In order to be competitive in the market place most dealers use formula based automated pricing to lower the price of a vehicle based upon how long a vehicle has been on their lot. The basis for price comparisons based upon vehicle valuation comes from information providers such as NADA Kelley Blue Book and Black Book. From time to time an automobile dealer will also want to inform potential buyers of special promotions by displaying this information on the window sticker.

These common changes to information displayed at the vehicle result in a time consuming and costly effort to re sticker all vehicles on the lot. Each vehicle must be physically revisited for any Vehicle Document change.

Therefore it is necessary to provide a method and apparatus to allow common vehicle information to be displayed on a vehicle that is accurate dynamic changeable customizable and does not require unsightly time consuming and costly application and re application of window stickers on all vehicles both new and used. In addition a wireless electronic window sticker as shown in the present invention will also allow possible customizable marketing abilities once very difficult and tedious with the prior paper based window stickers.

The inventors have discovered that an Electronic Vehicle Window Display System herein the invention will provide an extended vehicle information portal at the automobile itself. In one embodiment the invention is a self powered daylight readable networked automobile information display which is designed to replace all current static paper based window stickers.

A contemplated embodiment includes an electronic paper unit consisting of a low power consumption active matrix display. The electronic paper is contemplated to be in an A4 sized electronic display paper flexible display substrate to mimic the appearance of a regular letter sized piece of paper. It is contemplated that the electronic paper may be powered by solar energy or rechargeable batteries or both concurrently. In one embodiment the electronic paper screen is made with commonly used technology such as in any electro optic display overlays as shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 864 875 6 124 851 6 704 133 and 7 106 296.

The electronic paper in the contemplated embodiment also includes a wireless module that functions as a radio frequency RF transceiver RF omni directional antenna high density rechargeable batteries embedded software applications graphics controller non volatile memory solar strip capacitive strip and rigid polymer frame. The electronic paper provides the advantage of being remotely upgradeable and customizable and interactive with the viewer by also incorporating a proximity sensor which detects when a viewer is near the electronic paper and can immediately begin displaying the user defined vehicle information.

The contemplated embodiment also including a low power base transmitter or an electronic paper information distributor unit which resides on a cable based Ethernet or Cellular network and which would operate in conjunction with the electronic paper unit. Each contemplated electronic paper unit exists as part of a wireless mesh network having a unique identifier on that network. The contemplated invention can receive store and forward data within its protected network with all network traffic originating from a low power base transmitter hosted at the dealer s on lot offices. Line of Site LoS between the base transmitter and any electronic paper unit is not required and due to the nature of the mesh network inter transceiver distances of up to 600 can be achieved with no loss of signal or data bandwidth. Packets of data from the base transmitter are transmitted to the mesh network propagating throughout the network in search of its intended electronic paper unit ID. A preferred data path is established between the base transmitter and the electronic paper unit as the remaining data packets are transmitted to their specific destination unit.

In one embodiment the base RF transmitter is a pass through mechanism for data intended for the electronic paper units on the automobile lot. The base RF transmitter compresses and encrypts incoming data from the back end network prior to transmission. The data which populates each Electronic paper unit exists as a record in the dealer s inventory database including text graphics and display rules. The database is populated by data from any number of sources including direct entry if desired.

The invention also includes a vehicle information portal which acts as the central repository of the dealer s inventory. The dealer uses a web based application to manage the inventory of the information. The vehicle information portal also provides an application programming interface allowing integration with any existing inventory management systems at the dealership. In one embodiment the information stored on the vehicle information portal may be stored on one or more computer servers hosted remotely to ensure information protection and easy back up and recovery. In addition each dealership will have another computer on site which is embedded with the web based application which will allow the dealer to make on site changes and modifications to the vehicle information to be displayed on the electronic paper.

An object of the present invention is to offer reusability. Once a vehicle is sold the inventions Electronic paper unit can be reused on a different vehicle. Any Vehicle Identification Number VIN may be associated with any Electronic paper ID.

Another object of the present invention is allow the invention to contain a unique ID which can correspond to a particular Vehicle Identification Number in order to ensure that information broadcast over the mesh network intended for a particular vehicle corresponds correctly to the display on that vehicle.

Another object of the present invention is to offer ease of deployment and removal. The electronic paper part of the present invention does not use adhesive for attachment to the inside of the vehicle s window.

Another object of the present invention is to offer quick update of the vehicle information without physically re visiting the vehicle. The updated information such as pricing vehicle specifications and promotions can be transmitted from any Internet connected computers to the intended vehicle updating the Electronic paper associated with that vehicle remotely. A decrease in manual labor in updating vehicle information can allow more productivity for the vehicle dealer or lot to focus on other areas of interest.

Another object of the present invention is to enable dynamic updating to the dealer to ensure his prices match his advertised prices elsewhere such as his private website third party websites his dealer management system etc. This consistency in vehicle pricing and information can protect the dealer from such unwanted activity such as bait and switch or false advertising claims. In the contemplated invention If desired accurate pricing information will be available at the vehicle just as soon as it is available to the dealer

Another object of the present invention is that by using the Electronic paper there is no limitation on the number or frequency of information changes displayed at the vehicle. This also saves on consumables and decreases costs and expenses on paper and non reusable items.

Another object of the present invention is to also allow information beyond just vehicle information such as marketing ads commercials and promotional deals to be shown on the electronic paper whereby adding value to the dealer s opportunity to market other promotions or incentives while still providing the vehicle information to the buyer. It is contemplated that for a successful dealer who has high traffic volume it could also generate income by allowing outside companies to advertise on the dealer s lot.

Another object of the invention is to allow increased interactivity in the vehicle buying process. For example one present embodiment of the invention would allow users to access the internet from the electronic vehicle paper itself and perhaps research car insurance information or reviews and ratings of the particular vehicle before purchasing. In addition another embodiment of the invention would allow users to input their personal information on the electronic vehicle paper and receive instant credit information or allow them to purchase or order vehicle accessories.

As shown in in one contemplated embodiment the present invention consists of three main components A vehicle information portal an electronic paper information subscriber and the electronic paper . A vehicle information portal is a central repository of the dealer s inventory. A dealer uses a web based application to manage the inventory information. The vehicle information portal also provides an application programming interface allowing integration with any existing inventory management systems at the dealership.

The main function of an electronic paper information subscriber is to receive updated information for vehicles such as pricing specifications and promotions. The subscriber relays this information to electronic papers residing on those vehicles. In the contemplated present invention an electronic paper unit serves as an electronic paper window sticker. It displays the information wirelessly received from the vehicle information portal . In one embodiment the information from the vehicle information portal that is sent to the electronic paper information subscriber can be also wirelessly sent to the dealer s employees handheld devices such as mobile phones PDA s and or laptops.

As seen in the internal connections and workings of the vehicle information portal are shown. In particular the dealer inventory is stored with the complete information dealing with a dealer s inventory pricing vehicle information and any other related information. The vehicle information portal will also have an application programming interface that is customizable to the user which will allow on site and or off site control of the information contained in the vehicle information portal . In addition there exists a web based inventory management tool that allows modification and changes to be made to the information stored on the vehicle information portal remotely over the internet The vehicle information portal also contains information on the inventory and import export of vehicles and arrival dates. Information stored on the vehicle information portal is wirelessly transmitted to the electronic paper or Wi Fi paper information distributor .

Turning to the internal connections and workings of the electronic paper information subscriber also termed Wi Fi paper information subscriber is shown. In particular the electronic paper information subscriber connects to the vehicle information portal via a cellular network or WAN. The electronic paper subscriber then wirelessly relays the dealer inventory information to the individual electronic paper units .

Many alterations and modifications may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it must be understood that the illustrated embodiment has been set forth only for the purposes of example and that it should not be taken as limiting the invention as defined by the following claims. For example notwithstanding the fact that the elements of a claim are set forth below in a certain combination it must be expressly understood that the invention includes other combinations of fewer more or different elements which are disclosed herein even when not initially claimed in such combinations.

