---

title: Cell container
abstract: This invention relates to methods and devices that improve the process of culturing cells and/or shipping cells from one location to another. They have the capacity to reduce the risk of contamination, regulate pressure in the medium surrounding cells, and maintain cells in a uniform distribution throughout transit. This leads to an improved level of process control relative to current methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08999703&OS=08999703&RS=08999703
owner: 
number: 08999703
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080505
---
This invention was made in part with U.S. Government support under National Institutes of Health Small Business Innovative Research Grant DK0659865 Islet culture shipping and infusion device . The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

Each of the applications and patents cited in this text as well as each document or reference cited in each of the applications and patents including during the prosecution of each issued patent application cited documents and each of the PCT and foreign applications or patents corresponding to and or claiming priority from any of these applications and patents and each of the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. More generally documents or references are cited in this text and each of these documents or references herein cited references as well as each document or reference cited in each of the herein cited references including any manufacturer s specifications instructions etc. is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. Reference is also made to co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814 Wilson et al. 814 co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 952 848 Wilson 848 and co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 952 856 Wilson et al. 856 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The technical field of the invention relates to methods and devices that improve the process of removing gas and controlling pressure in containers with a focus on providing benefit over the current approaches used in the biotechnology industry. The disclosed devices and methods improve the process of culturing and or shipping cells. Attributes include the capacity to reduce the risk of contamination respond to temperature driven medium volume changes in order to minimize undesirable pressure effects maintain cells in a uniform distribution throughout transit reduce cell surface density throughout transit and expose cells to ambient oxygen throughout the culture and shipping process. This leads to an improved level of process control relative to current devices and methods.

Advances in cell therapies have created an increasing need to ship cells from one location to another. For example when islet research or islet transplants are undertaken it is common for the islets to be recovered from a pancreas and cultured at one location then shipped to a different location for research or clinical use. Existing methods and devices used to house cells during shipping do not lend themselves to good process control. Cells are typically placed in conical tubes or flasks packaged in a Styrofoam container that includes ice or cold packs and shipped to another location. This can damage cells since there is little control over a variety of variables that can affect their quality.

In general the conditions experienced by cells during shipping can deviate markedly from the controlled conditions present during culture. For example in the case of islets they are consolidated from many flasks in which they are cultured into far fewer flasks or conical tubes for shipping. This greatly increases islet surface density often many times beyond that of the culture stage. Normally they are cultured at surface density that does not exceed 200 islets cm. At higher density competition for nutrients and oxygen is increased and islets can diminish in health. Furthermore islets can aggregate at high density. When shipping cells flasks or conical tubes are typically filled entirely with medium in order to displace all the gas which could otherwise damage the cells. Thus the vessels are filled to the very top of their access ports with medium before their caps are attached. This leads to an elevated risk of contamination. Removing gas greatly limits the amount of oxygen available to cells. To compensate for this the cells are typically shipped in the presence of cold packs to slow down the metabolic activity of the cells and diminish oxygen demand. When medium attempts to contract in volume as it cools within the sealed container that the cells reside in pressure is exerted on the walls of the container placing the walls under stress. This can cause cracks or leaks in the container particularly when using flasks. It can also de gas the medium. Thus there are a wide variety of deficiencies with existing devices.

It is an object of the present invention to disclose improved devices and methods for shipping cells that minimize contamination risk create an environment that more closely mimics the culture environment allow cells to reside in a uniformly distributed pattern relieve stress on the walls of the device minimize de gassing of the medium and allow reduced cell surface density.

The recent emergence of devices that rely on gas permeable membranes to eliminate of the need for a gas liquid interface to perform gas exchange has led to an increased need to control where gas can reside in such a device. Recent patent applications attempt to rectify this problem by adding features that require awkward manipulation of the devices. It is also an object of the present invention to provide superior gas removal features that do not require awkward manipulation to function.

According to the present invention certain embodiments disclosed herein allow gas to be displaced from the cell container without need of filling the container entirely with medium. The cell container includes a fluid displacement member an overflow reservoir and a fluid exit path allowing fluid to move from the cell compartment to the overflow reservoir.

In one aspect of the present invention the cell container includes structure for moving the fluid displacement member into the cell compartment. Embodiments that accomplish this include open and closed systems.

In a preferred open system embodiment for displacing unwanted gas a fluid displacement member is attached to a cap. The body of the device includes an overflow reservoir. The cap and body are designed to be screwed together providing structure for moving the fluid displacement member into the cell compartment with a high degree of resolution. By moving the fluid displacement member into the cell compartment it can displace residual gas and leave the cell compartment entirely filled with medium. The overflow reservoir can be structured to retain any medium that has been displaced from the cell compartment when the cap is removed. This embodiment can be integrated into conical tubes or flasks and preferably into structures that allow cells to uniformly settle and reside upon a flat surface.

In a closed system embodiment for displacing gas medium can be delivered into the cell compartment by way of a septum. The cell container includes structure to drive a fluid displacement member into the cell compartment and displace unwanted gas into an overflow reservoir. In an illustrative embodiment cell container comprises such structure in its body in the form of fingers that interlock with tangs to change the height of the cell container.

In a closed system embodiment for displacing gas a method is disclosed that delivers pressurized medium into the cell compartment to drive gas from the cell compartment without need of structure to physically move the fluid displacement member. The shape of the overflow reservoir creates the fluid displacement member. Pressurized medium is driven into the cell compartment forcing gas into the overflow reservoir by way of a fluid exit path.

In another aspect of the present invention pressure within the cell compartment is regulated by use of a cell compartment volume adjustment feature. The cell compartment volume adjustment feature includes structure that allows it to move in response to forces acting upon it. A wide variety of structures are illustrated that allow the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to move including flexible hermetically sealed hollow bodies elastomeric cell compartment walls and solid bodies attached to springs. These types of structures allow the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to automatically act to decrease or increase the volume of the cell compartment in order to mitigate changes in pressure caused by external events such as temperature change or ambient pressure change. For optimal performance the cell compartment volume adjustment feature should be placed in an initial pre determined state of potential energy. According to one aspect the cell container includes structure that acts to alter the overall geometry of the cell container to place the cell compartment adjustment feature in a desired initial state of potential energy. Many of the cell container structures that are available to place the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in a desired state of initial potential energy are the same as those available to drive the fluid displacement member into the cell compartment. According to another aspect methods for placing the cell compartment adjustment feature in a desired initial state of potential energy absent structure to alter the overall geometry of the cell container are disclosed. In this aspect pressurized medium performs that task. The benefit of the cell compartment adjustment feature is a more controlled environment in the cell compartment relative what can be attained in traditional devices.

In another aspect the fluid displacement member is structured to become a cell compartment volume adjustment feature.

In another aspect the overflow reservoir is structured to become a cell compartment volume adjustment feature.

Another embodiment discloses a baffle to prevent cells from accumulating in an undesirable non uniformly distributed surface density upon the lower wall of the device.

Any embodiment can allow cells to reside in a uniform distribution in proximity of a gas permeable wall that allows gas exchange with ambient gas.

Certain devices and methods disclosed herein allow cells to reside upon more than one scaffold during culture and or shipping to minimize device footprint while providing the ability to purge gas from the device minimize the potential for accumulation of gas in unwanted areas of the device reduce stress on the walls of the device and allow reduced cell surface density.

Certain methods disclosed herein allow cells to reside in a uniform distribution throughout transit by use of a gimbal minimizing the potential for undesirable high density accumulation.

There may be a desire to prevent medium that has been displaced from the cell compartment from re entering the cell compartment when the cap is removed from the cell container. By structuring the height of cell compartment sidewall to exceed the height of lowest overflow reservoir surface about the perimeter of cell compartment medium that was initially displaced from cell compartment can be prevented from returning to cell compartment when cap is removed. The optimal height of cell compartment sidewall depends on the volume of medium that is expected to be displaced into overflow reservoir. The top of cell compartment sidewall should exceed the height at which medium is expected to reside above lowest overflow reservoir surface .

Cell container can be configured to allow gas exchange between cells and the external environment by making any of the walls gas permeable. To place the cells in the best location for oxygen access preferably lower wall of cell compartment is flat and is comprised of gas permeable material. The gas permeable material used to allow gas transfer into and out of the device can be comprised of any membrane film material or combination of materials used or previously described for use in gas permeable cell culture devices such as silicone flouroethylenepolypropylene polyolefin polystyrene film ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer and those that include fluorine. Many sources for learning about gas permeable materials and their use in cell culture are available for guidance including but not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 693 537 6 455 310 6 297 046 International Publication Number WO 01 92462 and Wilson et al. 814. Silicone is a particularly good choice of material for applications in which the cells have moderate to high oxygen demand. For example as described in Wilson et al. 814 we have found that the use of dimethyl silicone with a thickness less than or equal to about 0.033 inches thick and more preferably 0.0045 inches thick is a good choice when culturing cells and therefore will be useful for shipping cells in a well oxygenated state. The advantage of increasing medium height beyond the conventional height of 1.0 cm associated with devices that integrate a lower gas permeable membrane and 2.0 cm in gas permeable devices that integrate lower and upper gas permeable membranes is also described in Wilson et al. 814. Thus when the height of cell compartment sidewall is greater than 1.0 cm and lower wall is comprised of gas permeable material more cells can be supported than traditional gas permeable devices allow. In a preferred embodiment the lower wall is gas permeable and a cell compartment sidewall exceeds a height of 1.0 cm. Also preferably the cell compartment sidewalls are generally perpendicular to the gas permeable lower wall so that cells settle uniformly upon the lower wall during gravitational seeding from a well mixed cell suspension. The optimal surface area of the lower wall that is comprised of gas permeable material depends on the oxygen transmission rate of the material and the oxygen demand of the cells. In the case where there is a desire to culture and or ship cells or tissue that exhibit high oxygen demand such as islets the surface area should be maximized so that each cell or islet can reside upon the gas permeable material.

The reduction of medium temperature during shipping can decrease the metabolic demand of cells during transit. Currently this is a typical protocol when cells or tissue are shipped. For example in the case of human islets the temperature of the medium is typically reduced from 37 C. to 22 C. to reduce the oxygen demand often during culture. However medium volume contracts during cooling in this example by about 5 . If the device is a rigid closed body the medium experiences a pressure drop as it attempts to contract to a smaller volume. This can degas the medium. Additionally it places stress on the device walls. When the lower wall of the cell container is configured for gas exchange by use of material that is flexible for example as may be the case when it is comprised of thin dimethyl silicone the act of medium volume contracting during cooling can draw the lower wall upward. This is an undesirable position as cells can gravitate to the perimeter of the lower wall where they can accumulate at uncontrolled high density potentially terminating proper nutrient transport. Medium often rises and falls in temperature during culture or shipping. Therefore configuring the device with a cell compartment volume adjustment feature that moves to accommodate varying medium volume can help regulate pressure and prevent a lower flexible wall from being drawn into the cell compartment. The cell compartment volume adjustment feature can also mitigate any affect that pressure drop during flight may have. For example if a drop in pressure acts to draw the walls of the cell container outward the cell compartment volume adjustment feature can move to reduce stress on the walls of the cell container.

The objective of cell compartment volume adjustment feature is to automatically move in response to variations in the potential energy of the fluid in cell compartment as may be the case when the temperature of medium changes or walls of cell compartment move outward due to pressure reduction during flight. Thus the cell compartment volume adjustment feature requires structure that allows it to move in response to force variations that fluid within the cell compartment exerts upon it. Its potential energy is altered during the process. Skilled artisans will recognize that there are many structures available for making fluid displacement member meet its objective.

As shown in at least a portion of fluid displacement member forms a boundary of cell compartment . The force exerted by fluid in this case medium within cell compartment upon fluid displacement member makes fluid displacement member a good candidate to structure as cell compartment volume adjustment feature . By structuring fluid displacement member is as a hermetically sealed hollow body with walls comprised of a flexible material similar to a balloon it becomes cell compartment volume adjustment feature . Silicone provides a good material due to its biocompatibility and excellent elongation and compression set characteristics. With this structure as medium in cell compartment contracts cell compartment volume adjustment feature expands. Likewise as medium in cell compartment expands cell compartment volume adjustment feature contracts.

The initial state of potential energy of cell compartment volume adjustment will dictate the force that it exerts upon medium and the pressure of the medium. Thus a structure or method for controlling the initial state of potential energy is needed for optimal performance. In this illustrative embodiment cap can be threaded onto body to provide structural means of placing cell compartment volume adjustment feature in a desired state of initial potential energy. As cap travels downward the force exerted by medium upon fluid displacement member causes it to compress in volume thereby increasing its internal pressure and its stored potential energy. Skilled artisans will recognize that precision in creating an initial desired state of potential energy can be improved by varying the geometry of various features. For example in this illustrative embodiment more resolution is attained as threads become finer internal gas volume of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature becomes larger or walls of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature become less stiff. In this depiction the internal volume of cell compartment volume adjustment feature shown in labeled V has been reduced in labeled V thereby elevating its potential energy.

A lower wall support as previously described can be useful to prevent lower wall from bowing outward if cell compartment becomes pressurized as may be the case when cell compartment volume adjustment feature is in a state of elevated potential energy. If present the lower wall support should have enough stiffness to retain the bottom of cell compartment flat throughout this process. Preferably the design ensures that as pressure increases when cell compartment volume adjustment feature is driven into medium it does not deflect lower wall to the extent that cells pile up within the deflection area. The use of structural ribs or other means of stiffening the lower wall support can prevent that event.

In this state the cell container is prepared for exposure to changing temperature and or ambient pressure and can automatically act to limit variations in pressure within the cell compartment. Additionally in the medium cooling condition undesirable position change of a flexible gas permeable lower wall as previously described is prevented. For example when medium contracts during cooling the cell compartment volume adjustment feature attempts to reduce its potential energy. The elevated internal pressure within the cell compartment volume adjustment feature will act to drive its flexible walls toward the contracting medium thereby preventing a flexible lower wall from being drawn out of its horizontal position. In this manner when lower wall is comprised of a thin flexible gas permeable material cells can be retained in a uniform distribution upon the lower wall so long as the cell container resides in a horizontal position. In the event of medium temperature increase the cell compartment volume adjustment feature should be capable of compressing in volume after it comes to reside in its initial position.

The fluid displacement member need not be capable of changing shape only position and its walls need not be flexible. For example as shown the cross sectional view of cell container includes fluid displacement member which is mounted on spring to create cell compartment volume adjustment feature . Spring is attached to cap . Cap resides upon body . Cell compartment occupies a volume of space within cell container bounded in part by sidewall s and lower wall . Cell compartment volume adjustment feature resides above lower wall . In cap is separated from body to expose cell compartment . Medium and cells in this depiction shown as a well mixed suspension have been placed into cell compartment by way of access port . Medium initially resides at a height within cell compartment that is below the height of access port and more preferably below the height of cell compartment sidewall thereby reducing contamination risk. In cap has come in contact with body . Cells have gravitated to distribute uniformly upon lower wall of cell compartment . Gas resides above medium . Gas also occupies overflow reservoir and fluid exit path . Fluid exit path is the space between fluid displacement member and overflow reservoir . Preferably to allow all gas to be removed at least a portion of fluid displacement member resides below fluid exit path . In cap is prevented from further downward movement by body spring compresses as fluid displacement member having driven gas from cell compartment is prevented from further downward travel by the incompressible medium . Cell compartment volume adjustment feature has been placed in a first position of stored potential energy. Cell compartment seal in this depiction an o ring ensures medium is retained in cell compartment and gas within overflow reservoir cannot re enter cell compartment . As an alternative to the use of cell compartment seal tight tolerance clearance between fluid displacement member and cell compartment can be used to accomplish this objective as previously described. In this first position of cell compartment volume adjustment feature is prepared to act like a piston within the cell compartment. For example as the medium contracts during temperature reduction force acting upon cell compartment volume adjustment feature is diminished and it is driven towards the contracting medium as spring elongates where it comes to rest in a second position of reduced potential energy as shown in . Preferably in this second position cell compartment volume adjustment feature has some potential energy remaining so that a force is exerted upon the medium ensuring that lower wall is kept flat when it is comprised of a flexible material as could be the case when it is gas permeable. Likewise if medium increases in temperature the force acting upon cell compartment volume adjustment feature is increased as the potential energy of the medium increases and cell compartment volume adjustment feature moves upward to allow medium expansion thereby alleviating pressure build up.

Although embodiments have been depicted with a removable cap skilled artisans will recognize that the device can be configured for closed system use. For example medium and cells can be added by way of a septum and gas can be displaced by way of a vent. After displacing gas from the device the device volume can be physically altered to place the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in a desired initial state of potential energy where it seeks to automatically reduce or expand cell compartment volume depending on the anticipated temperature change or movement of walls during pressure drop experienced during flight. In this approach the device would include structural means for changing volume and more specifically for changing volume of the cell compartment. As an alternative to the inclusion of structural means for changing volume a method of forcing medium into the cell compartment under pressure to drive the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to a desired position of potential energy can be employed.

In the event that the device does not include structural means to place the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in a state of desired potential energy a method of doing so can be employed. For example referring to when medium has been introduced into cell compartment such that gas has been displaced vent can be closed. Subsequently medium can continue to be added under enough pressure to overcome the potential energy of cell compartment volume adjustment feature causing it to compress in internal volume such as that shown in .

In essence the cell compartment volume adjustment feature of any embodiments of the present invention include structural means to be capable of moving from a first position in which it stores a first amount of potential energy and defines a first volume of the cell compartment to a second position in which it stores a second amount of potential energy and defines a second volume of the cell compartment. Among the many options for creating appropriate structural means hollow bodies and flexible walls springs and elastomeric materials have been depicted. In a state of rest the force exerted by the surrounding fluid upon the cell compartment volume adjustment feature is equal to the force that it exerts upon the surrounding fluid. Throughout this specification reference in made to medium as the fluid exerting force. However the fluid can be gas or liquid. Thus the use of the term medium is non limiting. In the condition in which fluid is increasing in temperature and volume the cell compartment volume adjustment feature moves to allow the volume of the cell compartment to increase. In the condition in which medium is decreasing in temperature and volume the cell compartment volume adjustment feature moves to allow the volume of the cell compartment to decrease. Preferably the design of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature is based primarily upon the volume of the medium and or fluid and the anticipated temperature change. For example in the case where cells are cultured at 37 C. and shipped at 22 C. in a cell compartment entirely filled with medium the volume of medium is reduced by about 5 as the temperature drops. Thus the cell compartment volume adjustment feature having been driven into a state of increased potential energy after medium has been added should be structured to have the capacity to move to reduce the volume of the cell compartment by 5 when medium contracts. As the cell compartment volume adjustment feature moves from the elevated potential energy state of its first position in which a first volume of the cell compartment exists to a reduced potential energy state of its second position in which a second volume of the cell compartment exists the volume of cell compartment space given up by the contracting medium volume should come to be occupied by the cell compartment volume adjustment feature preferably with minimal resultant pressure change within the cell compartment. Continuing this example if the medium volume was 100 ml at 37 C. and a shipping temperature of 22 C. is desired the cell compartment volume adjustment feature should be capable of moving from its first position to a second position during temperature reduction such that it displaces about 5 ml of volume from the cell compartment to accommodate the 5 loss of medium volume associated with the temperature decrease. When the lower wall is comprised of a flexible gas permeable material preferably the cell compartment volume adjustment feature should retain some potential energy throughout culture and or shipping so that it exerts some force on the medium and thereby ensures that the lower gas permeable wall is held flat by the force exerted upon it by the medium. The cell compartment volume adjustment feature can also move in the opposite manner. For example when medium temperature increases the increase in its potential energy overcomes that of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature causing the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to move from a first position in which a first volume of the cell compartment exists to a second position in which a second volume of the cell compartment exists. In this manner potential pressure build up within the cell compartment is mitigated during an increase in medium volume temperature. Preferably the cell compartment volume adjustment feature allows the cell compartment to repeatedly increase and or decrease in volume thereby accommodation fluctuating ambient temperature and or pressure changes during use.

Placing the cell compartment adjustment feature in a desired and pre determined first state of potential energy can be achieved by including a physical structure in the device that is capable of placing the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in a desired state of potential energy. In an open system many options exist for placing the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in such a state. A threaded cap and body can move relative to each other and provide excellent resolution for altering the potential energy of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature. In a closed system finger locks a piston style body or bellowed body are among the many structural options for physically manipulating the device to place the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in the desired state of potential energy. In the absence of physical structure to place the cell compartment volume adjustment feature in the desired state of potential energy a non limiting method of delivering medium at elevated pressure has been described.

Although the cell compartment volume adjustment feature has been described primarily in the context of a cell compartment entirely filled with liquid medium skilled artisans will recognize that it can be used in the presence of liquid and or gas. For example there may be applications that do not benefit by the complete elimination of gas from the cell compartment such as a variety of culture applications. The cell container is most robust if it allows cells to be cultured and shipped. This can minimize contamination risk by eliminating the need to transfer cells from a culture device to a shipping device. The optimal volume of medium may differ between the culture state and the shipping state. For example a small amount of medium may reside at the culture state relative to the shipping state if there is a need to displace gas during shipping. This is a consideration that can affect the design of the cell compartment adjustment feature. The initial state of potential energy will differ between two identically structured cell compartment adjustment features when moved against an incompressible fluid i.e. cell compartment filled with medium versus a compressible fluid i.e. cell compartment including gas . One way of configuring a cell container for optimized culture and shipping is to include two cell compartment adjustment features one tailored to the cell culture condition and the other to the shipping condition.

If cells are cultured without medium entirely filling the cell compartment moving the device during routine handling can allow medium to move in a type of motion that displaces cells from a uniform distribution. This can increase cell surface density cells cm to an undesirable and uncontrolled level. This is more problematic when the cell compartment is cylindrical in shape as a whirlpool motion in the liquid can more easily occur. One option is to avoid the use of a cylindrical shape. However that may limit options for fabrication and often cylindrical shapes are more cost effective to fabricate. For example standard radial seals with o rings routinely rely on circular geometry of cylinders. Furthermore the benefit of a conically shaped fluid displacement member and a cylindrically shaped cell compartment has been previously described. Another option is to entirely displace gas from the cell compartment such as by use of a fluid displacement member thereby alleviating the condition as there is no gas liquid interface at which waves in the medium can form. However addressing this problem by filling the device entirely with medium may not an optimal solution when the cost of the medium is high or when there is a desire to keep the same ratio of medium volume to cell number as that of traditional flask culture. Yet another option is to pressurize the gas by use of an appropriately structured cell compartment adjustment feature so that the wave formation is diminished relative to that formed in the presence of a vented cell compartment. In this approach the optimal pressure would best be determined by trial and error.

Another preferred option is depicted in and which illustrate an embodiment of a cell container that includes a baffle to restrict medium motion when if there is gas residing in the device as may be the case when used for culture thereby minimizing the potential displacement of cells from their uniform distribution and allowing a wider range of culture protocols. The cross sectional view of shows cap removed from body and baffle residing within culture compartment . Cross section A A is shown in . Baffle projects into culture compartment in this case from sidewall . In this depiction culture compartment is a cylindrical in shape. Baffle can obstruct the rotation of medium during routine handling. Thus medium need not displace the gas to prevent cells from being subjected to the forces of medium rotation. The baffle can make contact with lower wall or extend from lower wall . Preferably a gap exists between baffle and lower wall to facilitate the ease at which cells can be recovered from the device. The gap allows users to recover cells by tilting the device and pipetting from any location as cells and medium are free to pass under the baffle. The gap between the lowest portion of baffle and lower wall should be selected based on the anticipated medium height. For example if medium is to reside at a height of 1.0 cm the distance between lower wall and baffle should be less than 1.0 cm. In that manner the baffle is in contact with medium during culture. However if the device is not gas permeable the baffle should preferably make contact with the lower wall since the normal height of medium in cultures that rely on a gas liquid interface for gas exchange is about 2 mm to 3 mm. Thus even a small gap between the baffle and the lower wall may not prevent cells from being redistributed to high surface density. In a preferred embodiment the baffle is a vertical wall that projects from the cell compartment wall a distance that does not exceed 50 of the distance between opposing cell compartment walls.

There may also be a desire to ship or culture and ship a large quantity of cells that prefer to be attached to a surface or prefer to reside at a low surface density. In this event the cell compartment can integrate numerous attachment surfaces for cells to reside upon. and show an embodiment that integrates scaffolds residing one above the other. Wilson et al. 814 provides guidance for how to best achieve this geometry. Although the scaffolds can be any material polystyrene is a good choice because it is inexpensive and easy to fabricate. The scaffolds may or may not be tissue culture treated depending upon whether the cells are suspension or adherent cells. The device can be constructed with a fluid displacement member and or a cell compartment volume adjustment feature. Preferably when the application includes a culture stage or oxygen availability is desired during transit the device body is comprised of gas permeable material. Although any structure that skilled artisans employ as a cell compartment volume adjustment feature can be integrated when the body is comprised of gas permeable material it can also act as a cell compartment volume adjustment feature. In the illustrative embodiment of a stack of vertically arranged scaffolds reside within cell compartment . Gas medium and cells reside within cell compartment . Cap configured as with fluid displacement member has not yet been attached. To allow the gas permeable walls of the device to move in response to temperature increases or decreases it is best to fabricate them at least in part of flexible material and to leave some distance between the edge of the scaffolds and the flexible portion of the device wall. Although this distance is not necessary it increases the capacity for flexible walls to move inward if medium volume contracts. However an initial distance can be established by the simple act of placing a cap on the device. In fluid displacement member and has displaced gas and driven a small amount of medium into overflow reservoir . A portion of the walls of body flexible and preferably gas permeable have been distended to a position of increased potential energy but remain capable of further distention and further increase in potential energy should medium temperature increase. The walls are capable of moving towards the scaffolds should medium temperature decrease. Silicone is a good choice of material for the portion of the walls that are intended to move. It is gas permeable flexible and highly elastic. If silicone resides in the device care should be taken to ensure that the surface chemistry of scaffolds if tissue treated is not altered during gamma or e beam exposure by employing the methods described in co pending Wilson et al. 856.

There may also be a desire to culture and or ship cells that prefer to be reside in a condition where the ratio of gas permeable surface area to scaffold surface area exceeds that of the illustrative embodiment of and . For example shipping very large quantities of islets can be achieved in a device with multiple layers of gas permeable surfaces for them to reside upon. and show an illustrative embodiment of how this can be achieved. Reference to Wilson 848 provides further guidance. In two cell compartments reside one above the other connected by manifold . Any of the walls of device body can be comprised of gas permeable material as described in Wilson 848. A gas space separates cell compartments . Scaffold supports act to retain scaffolds in a substantially flat state. Cap is unattached. Cell container is oriented such that cells and medium have been introduced into cell compartments . Medium resides at a level below the entrance to access port . Cell compartment volume adjustment feature attached to cap includes a tapered wall forming fluid displacement member . Neck included overflow reservoir . In cell container has been oriented such that cells and medium have come to reside above scaffolds . Cap has sealed against body and gas and a small amount of medium have been displaced by fluid displacement member into overflow reservoir . In this depiction the fluid displacement member has been configured as a hollow body with flexible walls so as to also function as cell compartment volume adjustment feature . As described previously cell compartment volume adjustment feature is capable of distending or retracting in response to medium volume changes.

The use of a fluid displacement member can be very useful for certain devices designed for cell culture that function better when gas is either not present or is isolated to specific areas within the device. For example U.S. patent applications Ser. Nos. 11 454 964 and 11 478 823 describe geometric features that can minimize the migration of gas into unwanted areas of a cell culture device by manipulating the position of the device to trap gas. Skilled artisans will recognize that the fluid displacement member of this invention is useful for displacement of gas from devices that are used to culture cells such as those depicted in 964 and 823 and the commercially available Hyperflask produced by Corning . Thus a preferred method of preventing gas from entering areas of a cell culture device in which it is unwanted is to structure such a cell culture device with a cap that includes a fluid displacement member and an access port that includes an overflow reservoir. The cell container i.e. the cell culture device could then be used as follows. Orient the access port is in a position where medium will not spill out of the device introduce cells and medium into the cell culture device and attaching the cap onto the device such that it covers the access port thereby allowing gas to be displaced from the cell compartment by the fluid displacement member. The device can then be re oriented to a position such that scaffolds are horizontal and placed in an atmosphere suitable to cell survival. In a more preferred method the cell container device access port is oriented vertically so that it allows medium to be added to the device while the device resides in the culture position i.e. horizontally thereby allowing simpler automation or single handed filling.

The use of a cell compartment volume adjustment feature described herein can be very useful for certain devices designed for cell culture that are best operated when gas is prevented from being in proximity of cells or forming within the medium. Gas can come to reside in unwanted areas when medium temperature is altered during culture as may be the case when cold medium is added to a device and is subsequently warmed in an incubator which can reduce gas carrying capacity and cause bubble formation. The cell compartment volume adjustment feature described herein can be used to pressurize the medium in order to prevent this type of event. To do so the cell compartment volume adjustment feature should be structured such that it arrives at a state of elevated potential energy when medium is increased in temperature and exerts a force upon the medium that regulates pressure of the medium such that degassing is prevented or minimized. Thus in a cell culture application one would structure the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to be capable of regulating the pressure of the medium integrating it into a cell culture device placing medium and cells into the cell culture device and incubating the device to culture cells.

During shipping maintaining the cell container in a horizontal position is preferred as it allows cells to reside in a uniform distribution. This can be useful in preventing any damage that can occur when cells are allowed to gravitate to very high density such as may occur when cells settle into a corner of the device. U.S. Pat. No. 6 490 880 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 829 752 describe the use of gimbal mechanisms to keep a device oriented in a horizontal position during shipping. A preferred method of shipping the cell container places its lower wall and or the scaffolds in a horizontal position throughout transit. In this orientation cells can remain uniformly distributed at a desired surface density. Thus one method of using the cell container would be to structure it with a fluid displacement member to displace gas and or a cell compartment volume adjustment feature to compensate for variations in medium volume introduce medium and cells optionally perform cell culture subsequently place the cell container in a gimbal mechanism and ship the cell container to a desired destination.

Skilled artisans will recognize that a wide variety of published information is available for guidance in the specific choice of material selection for various aspects features or components of the present invention. All materials used for cell culture devices or for containers that house biological materials are options. USP Class VI materials that can be gamma irradiated are preferred.

A cell culture container with fluid displacement member was structured as follows and is depicted according to . Cap integrated fluid displacement member dimensioned as shown. Body was fabricated of clear polycarbonate rod stock. Cell compartment was made by machining a cylindrical opening in body 1.40 inches in diameter and 2.46 inches in height. Lower wall was fabricated of dimethyl silicone 70 shore durometer and 0.004 inches thick and was attached to body by compression from polycarbonate lower wall support The gas permeable silicone lower wall formed a surface area of 10 cm. Lower wall support was 0.13 inch thick in areas directly below lower wall was attached to body with 8 screws uniformly spaced about the perimeter of body . A 50 ml pipette was used to place 40 ml of medium into cell compartment . Medium temperature was about 37 C. Medium came to reside at a height of 1.58 inches above lower wall and at a height of 0.36 inches below the highest portion of cell compartment sidewall . Cap was screwed onto body until overflow reservoir seal prevented further rotation. Cell compartment seal prevented fluid from moving into or out of cell compartment . At the time that further travel of cap ceased the closest point of fluid displacement member to lower wall was 1.2 inches. A visual inspection through clear cell compartment wall showed that all gas had been displaced from cell compartment and a small amount of medium had been moved into overflow reservoir by moving through fluid exit path . Subsequently to demonstrate the problems of temperature change medium was reduced in temperature from its initial temperature of about 37 C. to about 22 C. As medium contracted gas permeable lower wall was observed to be drawn from a flat position towards fluid displacement feature . This example demonstrates how gas can be displaced from a cell container without need of filling it entirely with medium but how temperature changes in the medium can affect the optimal orientation of a lower wall comprised of thin gas permeable material.

A test was conducted to demonstrate the capacity of a cell compartment volume adjustment feature to respond to changes in medium temperature resulting from temperature change. A test device was constructed as shown in cap integrated a hollow fluid displacement member formed of flexible silicone walls 70 Shore A durometer thereby creating cell compartment adjustment feature . The profile of fluid displacement member was dimensioned as described in Example 1. Wall thickness of the hollow cell compartment adjustment feature was uniform and 0.10 inch. The body of the cell container including cell compartment lower wall lower wall support and overflow reservoir were structured according to Example 1. As described in Example 1 40 ml of medium was placed into cell compartment . Medium and gas within the device were at about 37 C. Cap was screwed onto body until overflow reservoir seal prevented further rotation. Cell compartment seal prevented fluid movement into or out of cell compartment . All gas and a small amount of medium was observed to be displaced into overflow reservoir . The internal volume of cell compartment volume adjustment feature was compressed to a pressure of about 3.0 P.S.I. as measured by a sphygmomanometer hermetically attached to test orifice . The cell container was placed in an ambient atmosphere of about 22 C. As medium came to that temperature pressure in within the internal volume of cell compartment volume adjustment feature was reduced to about 2.0 P.S.I. as cell compartment volume adjustment feature distended into cell compartment to occupy the volume of space given up by the contracting medium. Lower wall remained flat as opposed to the bowed shape at which it came to in Example 1. This demonstrated the capacity of the cell compartment volume adjustment feature to automatically move from a position of a first stored potential energy to a second position of reduced but positive potential energy in order to prevent unwanted effects from temperature change including the ability to maintain a lower wall comprised of thin gas permeable material in a flat state.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications can be made thereof without departing from the spirit. Therefore it is not intended to limit the breadth of the invention to the embodiments illustrated and described. Rather the scope of the invention is to be interpreted by the appended claims and their equivalents.

