---

title: Titanium-maltol compound and method of synthesizing the same
abstract: A novel compound showing anti-tumor properties was synthesized by reacting CpTiClwith maltol (3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-pyrone) and a pH of 5.4, leading to a complete replacement of Cp and chloride ligands affording, Ti(maltolato)(OH). The further crystallization of Ti(maltolato)(OH)at pH of 8.4 leads to the formation of the novel anti-tumor compound [Ti(maltolato)(μ-O)].
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08101783&OS=08101783&RS=08101783
owner: University of Puerto Rico
number: 08101783
owner_city: San Juan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
The claimed invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number 2S06GM008103 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH . The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a novel compound and a method of synthesizing the same. More specifically the present invention relates a novel compound showing anti tumor properties.

Maltol 3 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 pyrone is a naturally occurring non toxic compound and common food additive. Many biologically important metals form stable complexes with maltol. Its stability arises from the easiness to deprotonate and to behave as an anionic bidentate metal chelator. There are numerous metal maltol complexes used in biomedical application. For instance iron III maltol complex has been used in the treatment of anemia and tris maltolato aluminum complex has found applications in the Alzheimer disease. Perhaps the most significant is bis maltolato oxovanadium IV which has been the subject of many chemical and physiological studies due to its potent insulinomimetic properties. This complex is an excellent glucose and lipid lowering insulin mimetics and it is currently evaluated in clinical trials.

Titanium IV complexes are widely used for a variety of purposes mainly as catalysts in a diversity of organic reactions. But titanium IV complexes also have a role in the bioinorganic chemistry with two classical examples titanocene dichloride CpTiCl and budotitane Ti bza OEt which exhibit anti cancer activities. With the discovery of the biological properties of these two Ti IV complexes many research groups have devoted their efforts to synthesize new titanium complexes with enhanced antitumor activity.

Titanocene dichloride and budotitane possess the same limitation low hydrolytic stability at physiological pH. As a result the mechanistic aspects and hydrolysis products of these antitumor species remain mostly uncharacterized. The synthesis of hydrolytically stable Ti IV complexes at physiological pH both organometallic and inorganic with biological properties is still a challenge. Among oxygen containing chelating ligands maltol has shown to form non toxic complexes.

Thus a new Ti IV maltol complex with two reactive OH ligands has been synthesized at low pH. At high pH this species further reacts to form a tetrameric species. These complexes could have potential for applications in catalysis and in the biomedical field.

Maltol has proven to be a versatile and non toxic chelating ligand that has made a major contribution to the bioinorganic chemistry and catalysis. Therefore the coordinating capabilities of maltol to Ti IV center are presented. First maltol is able to replace organic ligands in water such as the well reputed Cp leading to the formation of a coordination compound. It is believed this is the first tetrameric titanium IV complex containing maltolate ligand. Similar tertameric complex has been reported with the guaiacol a structural isomer of maltol but the bonding patterns between these two complexes are different. As investigated by spectroscopic methods this complex can exist as a mixture of the monomeric tetrameric species and their ratio is a function of the solution pH.

The synthesis of Ti IV maltol complex was accomplished by interaction of titanocene dichloride with two equivalents of maltol in aqueous solution at pH 5.4 leading to the formation of Ti maltolato OH as a slightly water soluble yellow product. Alternatively more than two and preferably three equivalents of maltol could be used to provide an excess and ensure completion of the reaction.

Not surprisingly Ti IV being a hard acid and oxyphilic readily reacts with maltol an oxygen containing chelating ligand to form dihydroxobis maltolato titanium IV complex. The initial product was characterized by spectroscopic and electrochemical methods. IR spectrum for Ti maltolato OH shows four bands in the region of 1400 1620 cm which are typical of coordinated maltol ligand. The band at 1660 cmassigned to C O in free maltol is shifted to 1620 cmwhile the combination bands of the C O and C C vibration modes at 1626 cmand 1565 cmare shifted to 1585 cmand 1518 cm. A broad band at 3396 cmis observed and is attributed to the OH stretching.

To detect the exchangeable protons H NMR spectrum in DMSO dwas recorded. Two broad signals corresponding to the OH protons are evident in addition to two set of doublets for the H 5 and H 6 protons of each isomer in a ratio of 4 1 cis trans . Addition of DO into the DMSO dsolution produces the disappearance of these broad singlets indicating that these signals belong to exchangeable OH protons.

To assign signals on the H NMR spectral data a few structural criteria was considered. For the cis isomers the limited symmetry of the complex conferred by two chelating maltolate and two mutually cis hydroxo ligands makes the metal center chiral.

Given the fact that two set of resonances for the malotolato and hydroxo ligands at different ratios was observed the presence of two different isomers with a Caxis or plane of symmetry was envisioned. There are two possibilities a mixture of two cis Ti maltolato OH distereisomers IA and IB containing the maltol methyl groups in the same and opposite directions syn and anti to each other or a mixture of cis IA and trans dihydroxobis maltolato titanium IV complex IIA or IIB as shown in .

Extrapolating from the X ray results vide infra IA should exist in solution. This isomer exhibits one set of maltol H 5 and H 6 signals as well as one OH signal. IA has a Crotation axis. Therefore in DMSO dsolution the H NMR spectrum should have four signals two doublets for H 5 H 6 and two singlets for OH and CHprotons. On the other hand isomer IB lacks of a Crotation axis or plane of symmetry and two sets of H 5 and H 6 signals should be observed the maltol ligands are not magnetically equivalent as well as 20H and 2CHsignals. Since this is not the case the second isomer should be IIA or IIB trans Ti maltolato OH containing one set of H 5 H 6 OH and CHsignals.

The identity of these species in solution was investigated using ESI MS spectroscopic techniques. In a mixture of HO MeOH the predominant species in solution as Ti maltolato OH H with a parent peak at 329 m z was identify. Further fragmentation of this parent peak by ion trap methodology demonstrated the loss of OH ligand. Elemental analysis corroborated this formula. This strongly suggests that the complex in solution at low pH is monomeric.

Ti maltolato OH is slightly soluble in water at low pH 5.4 . However at pH of 8.4 the complex becomes soluble in water but promotes tetramerization of the Ti maltolato OH species. In fact this can be monitored by NMR spectroscopy. A pure sample of cis Ti maltolato OH was dissolved in DO at pH of 8.4. The H NMR spectrum of this solution showed two species in a ratio of 1 1. These two species belong most likely to cis Ti maltolato OH and Ti maltolato O . After 24 hours the tetrameric species continues increasing while the monomeric species decreases. Upon standing for two weeks at pH of 8.4 this solution yields orange crystals suitable for X ray diffraction. Evidently Ti maltolato OH further reacts to form a tetranuclear titanium complex which crystallizes as a hydrate Ti maltolato O .18HO Single crystal X ray structure determination was pursued on this high pH species which solid state structure is illustrated in . The crystal data and structure refinement details as well as the bonding parameters are summarized below in Table 1 and Table 2 respectively.

As shown by X ray diffraction study the subject compound is tetrameric. Solid state structure of Ti maltolato O consist of four Ti IV in a pseudo octahedral configuration linked by four oxo ligands. Similar structure but with guaiacolato ligand a structural isomer of maltol has been reported Ti guaiacolato O . The TiOmoiety in Ti maltolato O is non planar with alternate bridging oxygens above and below the Tiplane. Since the four Ti coordination spheres and bonding parameters are similar although not identical only one unit Ti 1 will discussed. As mentioned previously Ti 1 consists of a pseudo octahedral configuration with two bidentate maltolate and two mutually cis oxo ligands.

Two sets of Ti O bonds can be identified in the titanium maltol interaction. The Ti O deprotonated bonds Ti O 5 and Ti O 2 are trans to each other with bond distances Ti O 5 1.9583 17 and Ti O 2 1.9706 17 substantially shorter than the Ti O ketonic bonds Ti O 1 2.1797 17 and Ti O 4 2.1495 17 . This demonstrates the greater coordination and donating ability of the hydroxyl oxygens compared to ketonic oxygens. Ti O oxo bonds are almost identical 1.799 16 and 1.8050 16 .

The chelating angles O 4 Ti 1 O 5 76.75 7 and O 1 Ti 1 O 2 76.64 6 are smaller than 90 reflecting the strain created by the five member ring chelate while the cis O 25 Ti 1 O 28 angle 100.18 7 shows a deviation of 10 from the octahedral angles. In terms of the maltolato ligand there is a small lengthening in the C O ketone bonds C 1 O 10 1.266 3 and C 7 O 4 1.276 3 compared to free maltol 1.248 1.254 . Within the maltol ring carbon carbon bond distances ranged from 1.328 to 1.436 . If a typical single carbon carbon bond with length of 1.54 and a double bond with 1.32 are considered it is evident that there is some degree of delocalization of the double bonds in the maltol ring.

Several differences can be observed when the subject structure is compared with the Ti guaiacolato O . First the Ti O deprotonated bonds of Ti guaiacolato O 1.901 are shorter than Ti O deprotonated bonds 1.9583 17 and 1.9706 17 in Ti maltolato O while the Ti O alkoxy bonds in guaicol complex 2.273 11 and 2.289 12 are longer than the Ti O ketonic 2.1797 17 and 2.1495 17 in the maltol complex as a result of the different binding capabilities of these two oxygens. Second the maltol ligands on adjacent titanium i.e. Ti 1 and Ti 2 in Ti maltolato O are arranged parallel to each other while the guaiacolate ligands are arranged perpendicular in Ti guaiacolato O . In the TiOmoiety Ti maltolato O has two alternate bridging oxygens O 25 and O 27 above and the other two O 26 and O 28 below the Tiplane while for Ti guaiacolato O two bridging oxygen are in the Tiplane and the remaining two are one above and the other below the plane. On the other hand similar expansion is observed in the cis Ti O oxo angles 103 for Ti guaiacolato O and 100 for Ti maltolato O .

Characterization of this tetrameric complex by NMR IR and MS spectroscopic methods has been pursued. The H NMR spectrum of the freshly dissolved Ti maltol O crystals in DMSO d shows one species corresponding to the tetramer. In DO the crystals also showed one species corresponding to Ti maltolato O but after 3 hours the presence of the cis monomer is evident reaching a ratio of the tetramer to cis monomer of 7 1 tetramer monomer . This suggests that partial dissociation of the tetramer is taking place. The Ti maltolato O .18HO crystals are unstable and undergoes dehydration when removed from the mother liquor. Therefore analytical data has been obtained consistent to Ti maltolato O .5.5HO. This was further corroborated by TGA analysis which showed that this compound has five molecules of water as evidenced in . In addition solution characterization by MS has been established. ESI MS of this complex did not show a parent peak but showed fragments such as Ti maltolato OTi 423.1 m z and Ti maltolato OH 315.1 m z. This data suggests that the complex in solution tends to be monomeric at low pH and in the solid state the species isolated at high pH is tetrameric.

Electrochemical behavior of Ti maltolato OH was investigated using cyclic voltammetry cv . Ti maltolato OH in CHCl NBu BF showed an irreversible cathodic wave at a potential of E 1.36 V suggesting irreversible reduction of Ti IV to Ti III while no anodic wave was detected up to the solvent electrolyte discharge potential. If this potential is compared with previously reported Ti IV maltol and Ti IV guaiacol complexes it resembles to reduction potentials of monomeric species such as Ti maltolato OEt 1.0 V and Ti maltolato Cl 1.55 V and not to the tetrameric species Ti guaiacolato O 1.94 V . This evidence further suggests that the complex isolated at low pH is monomeric. Attempts to characterize the Ti maltolato O by cyclic voltammetry failed due to the lack of solubility in CHCland in solvents such as DMSO or water no anodic cathodic waves were detected up to the solvent electrolyte discharge potential.

Titanocene dichloride was handled under dried nitrogen in Schlenk type anaerobic lines. The CpTiClcomplex was obtained and used without further purification. Maltol was obtained and used as received. The purity of titanocene dichloride and maltol were checked by IR and or by H NMR spectroscopy. Water was doubly distilled deionized and thoroughly saturated with dried nitrogen. All solvents for NMR measurements were 99.9 D purity grade. The dichloromethane CHCl was distilled twice over CaHand stored under nitrogen over molecular sieves.

FTIR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Vector 22 spectrophotometer with the samples as compressed KBr discs. The H spectra were recorded on a 500 MHz Avance Bruker spectrometers under controlled temperature. Tetramethylsilane TMS and 3 trimethylsilyl propanesulfonic acid DSS were used as internal reference. Mass spectral data was obtained on a Bruker Daltonics Esquire 6000. The complexes were dissolved in a mixture of water methanol 1 1 prior to mass spectral analysis. The electrospray positive ion was used as ionization mode during the MS experiment.

Electrochemical characterization was carried out on a BAS CV 50W voltammetric analyzer. Dichloromethane was used as a solvent for all electrochemical experiments. Once the solvent was dried over calcium hydride and distilled under nitrogen it was stored in a round bottom flask over molecular sieves. Tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate NBu BF was used as supporting electrolyte in all electrochemical measurements. The supporting electrolyte was recrystallized from methanol and dried in vacuo prior to use.

A three electrode configuration consisting of a glassy carbon working electrode a platinum wire Pt wire counter electrode and a non aqueous silver wire in contact with a solution of approximately 0.1M NBu BF in dichloromethane CHCl separated from the bulk solution by a fine glass frit as pseudo reference electrode. The internal reference is Fe CH and potentials are quoted relative to SCE. The working electrode was polish with 0.05 m alumina slurry for 1 2 min and then rinsed with deionized water. This cleaning process was done before each cyclic voltammetry CV experiment. A sweep between 1.9 and 2.0 mV was performed.

The thermal analysis experiments were performed using a TAQ500 TGA instrument. The heating rate was 10 C. min for TGA analysis.

In 80 ml of deionized water under nitrogen was charged with 200 mg 1.6 mmol of maltol and 200 mg 0.80 mmol of titanocene dichloride. The pH was adjusted to 5.4 with 0.1M NaOH. After 96 hrs of stirring at room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered and the yellow precipitate was dried under vacuum. Yield 60 IR KBr disc 3396 br 3074 w 1620 m 1586 s 1518 m 1476 s 1276 s 1246 w 1204 m 928 w 854 sh 796 m 728 m 630 w 543 w 475 w . H NMR DMSO d ambient isomer I 8.273 bs 1H 6.529 bs 1H 6.219 bs 1H OH 2.340 bs 3H . H NMR DMSO d ambient isomer II 8.405 d 1H J 5 Hz 7.999 bs 1H OH 6.728 d 1H J 5 Hz 2.395 s 3H . H NMR DO pH 8.4 ambient isomer I monomer 8.066 d 1H J 5 Hz 6.375 d 1H J 5 Hz 2.457 s 3H . ESI MS positive mode m z relative intensity Ti maltolato OH H 327.2 9.9 328.2 9.4 329.1 100 330.1 23 331.1 10.1 Ti maltolato OH m z relative intensity 313.1 6.7 314.1 10.8 315.0 100 316.0 18.1 317 26.7 . Anal. Calc. for CHOTi C 43.40 H 3.64. Found C 43.25 H 3.64.

 Ti maltolato O tetramer IR KBr disc 3418 br 3074 w 2920 vw 1619 s 1587 vs 1516 m 1472 s 1392 w 1368 w 1276 s 1243 m 1203 s 1092 w 1040 w 928 w 854 sh 796 s 722 s 628 w 610 w 543 m 469 w . H NMR DMSO d ambient 8.016 d 1H J 5 Hz 6.350 d 1H J 5 Hz 2.389 s 3H . H NMR DO pH 8.4 ambient 7.835 d 1H J 5.5 Hz 6.504 d 1H J 5.5 Hz 3.42 bs HO 2.314 s 3H . ESI MS positive mode m z relative intensity Ti 2 maltolato OTi 422.2 12.1 423.1 100 424.9 31.1 425.0 13.6 Ti 2 maltolato OH 313.2 5.8 314.2 7.3 315.1 100 315.9 46.3 317.0 8.5 . Anal. Calc. for Ti 2 maltolato O .5.5HO C 42.53 H 3.79. Found C 42.70 H 3.70.

An orange plate cut to 0.30 0.20 0.20 mm in size was mounted on a cryoloop with Paratone oil. Data was collected in a nitrogen gas stream at 173 C. Crystal to detector distance was 60 mm and exposure time was 10 seconds per frame using a scan width of 0.5 . Data collection was 99.9 complete to 25 in . A total of 57 671 reflections were collected covering the indices h 15 to 15 k 31 to 30 l 29 to 28. 15 416 reflections were found to be symmetry independent with an Rof 0.0702 indicating that the data was of average quality 0.07 . Indexing and unit cell refinement indicated a P centered monoclinic lattice. The space group was found to be P 2 c No. 14 . The data was integrated using the Bruker SAINT Software program and scaled using the Bruker SADABS software program. Solution by direct methods SIR 2004 produced a complete heavy atom phasing model consistent with the proposed structure. All non hydrogen atoms were refined anisotropically by full matrix least squares SHELXL 97 . All hydrogen atoms were placed using a riding model and their positions constrained relative to their parent atom using the appropriate HFIX command in SHELXL 97. 18 HO molecules co crystallized with the target complex. The water molecules were treated by removal of their electron contributions using the Squeeze routine in the PLATON software package.

While the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it will be clear that the present invention is not limited to these embodiments only. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as described in the claims.

