---

title: Method and apparatus for tracing users of online video web sites
abstract: The method and/or apparatus monitors and records the times when a user interacts with a network video player, e.g. a web video player, while watching an online video clip. Specifically, a data collection agent (DCA) is loaded to the player or to a web page that displays the video clip. The DCA collects detailed viewing information and periodically sends this information to a central server. The viewing information is processed by the central server to generate at least one of: a viewership attention span report, a viewership demographics report, and a viewership geographic report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577996&OS=08577996&RS=08577996
owner: Tremor Video, Inc.
number: 08577996
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080917
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional Ser. No. 60 960 144 A Method and Apparatus for Tracing Users of Online Video Web Sites filed Sep. 18 2007 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

This invention relates generally to the field of monitoring websites. More specifically this invention relates to a method and system for monitoring online video sharing websites.

The number and popularity of Web 2.0 websites is rapidly increasing. Generally a Web 2.0 website is a site where a user is able to create an account upload share contribute comment vote or read personal opinions of other users all on the same site. Many of the Web 2.0 websites such as YouTube MetaCafe Google video Yahoo video Myspace.com users blogs etc. provide video sharing services.

A video sharing or online video service allows individuals or content publishers to upload video clips to Internet websites. The website stores the video clip on its server and provides different types of functions to allow others to view that video clip. For example the website may allow commenting and rating of a video clip. Many services have publication options e.g. private sharing. Video sharing services can be classified into several categories e.g. user generated video sharing websites video sharing platform white label providers web based video editing.

As video hosting websites are becoming increasingly popular such websites provide a platform for traditional publishers such as TV broadcasters to use these websites as another medium to display media content. For example CBS and CNN networks often publish video clips on YouTube. For such publishers it is highly desirable to know the ratings of their published video clips. In television the ratings e.g. Nielsen Ratings determine the audience size and composition of television programming as well as advertising rates. This method is not applicable for the Internet.

In the related art there are different techniques to determine the popularity of a website. One technique known in the art refers to page hit or page views . The page hit refers to an event wherein a server receives a request for a page and then serves up the page. A common measure of traffic at a website is in the number of page hits especially in an advertising context for particular pages or sets of pages. Page hit counts are a rough measure of the traffic of a website. Other techniques involve analyzing traffic between the Web server and clients. These techniques work well when the traffic of interest relates to particular pages but are generally uninformative when traffic by topic is desired because one page may relate to multiple topics. Systems have been suggested for embedding script code in web pages for tracking user activity on a web page.

The rating of video clips on video hosting websites can be determined using viewership information provided by these sites. Typically the sites count the cumulative number of users who view the clip. However more refined measurements that include for example the quantity and characteristics of viewers as well as detailed information about the duration and repetition of each view are neither generated by video sharing websites nor by any other prior art technique. Furthermore the viewership information can be easily manipulated by using for example scripts browser refreshes and other fraudulent means. As a result ratings measured based on the viewership information are inaccurate at best and often misleading. Systems have been suggested for placement of advertising slots in hosted video clips. In such systems methods are used to track the ad placement and viewing. Such methods require preparation of the video clips for ad placement.

Frameworks described in the prior art enable collection of application events in distributed internet applications. These frameworks require the application to be specifically instrumented through an Application Programming Interface API which requires software development capability for use of the API and system resources such as storage to the file system for running the API.

The system collects viewership data for each video clip embedded in a web page. In one embodiment a data collection agent DCA is loaded to the player or to a web page that displays the video clip. The DCA collects detailed viewing information and periodically sends this information to a viewership analytics server VAS . In one embodiment the data is sent to the VAS as a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request. The VAS processes data and generates reports on at least one of viewership attention span viewership demographics and viewership geography.

In one embodiment the invention comprises a method and or an apparatus for monitoring and recording when a user interacts with a video player while watching a video clip online. Specifically a data collection agent DCA is loaded to the player or to a web page that displays the video clip. The DCA collects detailed viewing information and periodically sends this information to a central server. The viewing information is processed by the central server to generate at least one of a viewership attention span report a viewership demographics report and a viewership geographic report.

A viewership analytics server VAS can connect to each web server through a network for example but not limited to a wide area network WAN which enables connectivity such as Internet connectivity. The VAS executes the tasks related to gathering of viewership information for web servers analyzing the gathered information and generating reports on the quantity and characteristics of viewers as well as information about the duration and repetition of each view. These tasks are described in greater detail below. The VAS is connected to a database where the collected and generated viewership data is saved.

Clients through M communicate with web servers through the network . A client comprises at least a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer allowing the user to view and navigate through web pages downloaded from one or more servers . Each client is capable of downloading playing and displaying video clips provided by the servers . With this aim each client is capable of running a video player not shown which is typically integrated into a web page. The video player may be but is not limited to Flash based web player DivX web player Microsoft Media Player etc.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention a data collector agent DCA is loaded to video sharing websites hosted on servers to capture information about the interactions of the viewers with web players. The DCA may be a script code e.g. JavaScript hosted by the VAS and loaded to web pages hosted on servers . The DCA may be also in a form of a plug in installed in the video players provided by video content providers.

The DCA collects and sends to the VAS metadata and detailed viewing information. The metadata comprises at least a video identification ID a publisher ID a website ID that is derived from the uniform resource locator URL a length of the video clip being viewed and the current time. The detailed viewing information includes the actions performed on the player and a timestamp. The recorded actions may be for example playing pausing rewinding forwarding and so on. The timestamp start and end times are expressed for example in seconds from the beginning of the video clip. For instance the pair means that a user viewed the clip for only for 15 seconds starting at the 20second from the beginning. The pair means that the user paused 30 seconds after the beginning of the clip. The data gathered by the DCA is used by the VAS . In one embodiment these requests are sent to the VAS in the form of a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request. An HTTP request that includes the metadata is sent to the VAS once a web page including the DCA has completely uploaded to a client s browser. The detailed viewing information including the pairs of actions and timestamps is periodically sent to the VAS . The VAS extracts the data encapsulated in the received requests and saves the data in the database .

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention users e.g. advertisers and content publishers can access the VAS through for example a client . This process is similar to how a user viewing the content would access the VAS . Advertisers and content publishers can designate which websites publishers and video clips to trace. In one embodiment of the invention the user views generated data from the VAS by logging onto a website.

The analyzer processes the information saved in the database to generate viewership related analytics data attention span report and viewership demographics. Viewership related analytics data includes but is not limited to the number of viewers during any period of time e.g. last three days last week last months etc. for a video clip for a publisher or for a group of video clips over different periods of time. This information can be generated for a single website or across a plurality of websites. In order to generate the analytics data mentioned herein the analyzer first computes the number of viewers in each day or any other time interval from the gathered information. The process for generating the viewership related analytics data is further discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 871 880 A Method and System for Monitoring Online Video assigned to common assignee the entirety of which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

The analyzer further generates an attention span report that includes detailed information about the duration and repetition of each view. This report further includes per each video clip the total number of viewers and the number of viewers that viewed the complete video clip. This report is produced by processing the data stored in the database . In addition the analyzer produces a viewership geographic report. This report includes the number of viewers of a video clip in each country around the globe. The report is generated by correlating the number of views with IP addresses of the different viewers. Furthermore a viewership demographics report is generated by analyzer . This report correlates the number of viewers with demographics including race age income educational attainment employment status etc. The demographics are retrieved from the users profiles as saved in the online video websites if and when available.

In accordance with another embodiment the analyzer can detect fraud attempts. Such attempts are typically performed by browser refreshes or scripting intended to artificially inflate the view count. With this aim the analyzer maintains a history file of the video IDs that have been viewed in the past during a predefined period of time e.g. video clips viewed in last 2 hours by each IP address. If the analyzer detects multiple views above a threshold from the same IP address within a predefined period time the analyzer discards the data regarding the subsequent views or any views. The analyzer also validates that the database does not contain timestamp entries with duration longer than the length of the video clip. This check protects against scripting attacks intended to record repeated video views under a single view count.

The GUI displays the viewership related analytics data produced by the analyzer as charts or text based reports. In one embodiment the charts are dynamic. That is the GUI dynamically changes the displayed content of the chart as the user changes the chart s time scale. shows examples charts of the various reports as generated by the GUI according to several embodiments of the invention. is a chart that shows an attention span report. is a chart representing the viewership by geography. shows charts of viewership demographics specifically the age distribution and gender distribution of viewers.

It should be appreciated by a person skilled in the art that methods processes and systems described herein can be implemented in software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. The implementation may include the use of a computer system having a processor and a memory under the control of the processor the memory storing instructions adapted to enable the processor to carry out operations as described hereinabove. The implementation may be realized in a concrete manner as a computer program product that includes a tangible computer readable medium holding instructions adapted to enable a computer system to perform the operations as described above.

