---

title: System and method for implanting a heart implant
abstract: A method and system according to one embodiment may include a plurality of apparatus configured to percutaneously deliver a heart valve implant. The method and system may include an implant comprising an anchor configured to engage cardiac tissue, a shaft coupled to the anchor, and a valve body coupled to the shaft. The method and system may further include at least partially collapsing the heart valve implant and percutaneously inserting the heart valve implant into a heart. The percutaneously inserted implant may be secured within the heart and may then be expanded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09259317&OS=09259317&RS=09259317
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 09259317
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080912
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 061 343 filed Jun. 13 2008 which is hereby incorporated fully by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement may be carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and may be carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

The present disclosure relates to a heart implant and a system and method of implanting a heart implant. For example the system and method according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may be used to implant a heart valve implant which may suitably be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of a dysfunctional or inoperative heart valve. One suitable implementation for a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure is the treatment of mitral valve regurgitation. For the ease of explanation the heart valve implant herein is described in terms of a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 filed Oct. 26 2005 which is fully incorporated herein by reference. However a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be employed for treating diagnosing and or correcting other dysfunctional or inoperative heart valves. The present disclosure should not therefore be construed as being limited to use as a mitral valve implant. In addition the system and method according to the present disclosure may be used to implant heart implants configured to be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of other heart conditions. For example and without limitation the system and method consistent with the present disclosure may be used to implant a regurgitation implant configured to induce a controlled regurgitation in a heart valve such as but not limited to a mitral heart valve for example in a manner that is generally consistent with advanced disease of the heart. The regurgitation implant may include a regurgitation implant as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 940 724 filed Nov. 15 2007 which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

According to one embodiment a heart implant consistent with the present disclosure may comprise a heart valve implant configured to interact with at least a portion of an existing heart valve to prevent and or reduce regurgitation. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured cordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

For the ease of explanation one embodiment of the system and method consistent with the present disclosure is described in terms of a system and method for implanting a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation. The system and method may generally comprise placing a guide wire into the left ventricle and advancing a mitral valve implant along the guide wire and into the left ventricle. For example a guide wire may be initially placed into the left atrium of the heart for example by way of transseptal puncture of the heart from the right atrium through the fossa ovalis into the left atrium. The guide wire may be passed through the mitral valve into the left ventricle and a snaring or capturing device for example but not limited to a snare catheter may be placed into the left ventricle to capture or retain the guide wire. A balloon catheter may at least partially receive the guide wire and may be inflated to pass the guide wire through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve. The snaring device may be used to capture or retain the guide wire in the left ventricle. With the guide wire in the left ventricle a mitral valve implant may be placed in the left ventricle. For example a delivery catheter may be placed over the guide wire and guided into the left ventricle. Once the delivery catheter is in the left ventricle the mitral valve implant may be placed received in a delivery lumen of the delivery catheter and placed into the left ventricle from the delivery lumen and secured within the left ventricle. As mentioned above a system and method for delivery a mitral valve heart implant may comprise placing a guide wire into the left ventricle. Referring now to a cross sectional schematic view of a portion of a four chamber heart is illustrated. The outflow tracts of the right and left ventricles are not shown in order to better illustrate the septum between the right and left atria . As shown the inferior vena cava IVC and superior vena cava SVC communicate with the right atrium which is separated from the left atrium by the intra atrial septum . While not a limitation of the present disclosure it is may be advantageous to make the transseptal puncture through the fossa ovalis since the fossa ovalis is thinnest portion of the intra atrial septum .

According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure a guide wire may be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . The guide wire may include any guide wire configured to be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . Consistent with one embodiment the guide wire may be the same as the rail discussed herein however the guide wire may also be separate and distinct from the rail. Without limitation access to the right atrium may be accomplished by way of the Seldinger wire technique. For example the right femoral vein not shown may be accessed with a hollow needle not shown and a guide wire may be inserted. The needle may be removed and a dilator may be inserted over the guide wire . The sheath of a catheter such as but not limited to a Mullins catheter or the like having a pre bent region proximate the distal tip of the catheter may be inserted over the dilator . The sheath dilator catheter and guide wire may then be advanced up the IVC through the opening into the right atrium as generally illustrated in .

With the sheath dilator catheter and guide wire in the right atrium access to the left atrium may be achieved by transseptal puncture from the right atrium through the intra atrial septum . For example at least a portion of the guide wire may be advanced out of the distal tip of the dilator sheath and or catheter as generally shown in . According to an embodiment the guide wire may be at least partially advanced into the SVC as generally illustrated in and the distal tip of the catheter may then be at least partially advanced along the guide wire into the SVC as generally illustrated in . Because the SVC is a thin walled vein it may be advantageous to place the guide wire in the SVC and then advance the catheter along the guide wire since the spring tipped atraumatic guide wire reduces the potential for damaging the SVC compared to the catheter and dilator .

With the distal tip at least partially received in the SVC the guide wire may be retracted into the dilator and the catheter may be retracted i.e. pulled downward such that the pre bent portion of the sheath facilitates guiding the distal tip to the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . For example using one or more visualization techniques such as but not limited to intracardiac echo ICE fluoroscopy and the like the sheath may be retracted proximally dragging the distal tip along the intra atrial septum until the distal tip is positioned proximate to the fossa ovalis . Optionally the position of the sheath relative to the fossa ovalis may be confirmed by gently pushing the sheath distally against the intra atrial septum to tent the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . The tenting of the fossa ovalis may be seen on ICE fluoroscopy or the like.

With the distal tip proximate and or contacting the fossa ovalis the guide wire may be removed from the catheter and a transseptal needle may be advanced through the catheter towards the distal end of the catheter as generally shown in . The position of the catheter may optionally be confirmed for example but not limited to by tenting and the transseptal needle may be advanced out of the distal tip to form a puncture through the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium . The sheath dilator and catheter may than be advanced through the puncture of the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium as generally shown in . Once the sheath dilator and catheter are through the fossa ovalis the needle may be removed from the catheter as generally shown in .

With the catheter in the left atrium a rail may be advanced through the catheter until at least a portion of the distal tip of the rail extends from the distal tip of the catheter and into the left atrium as generally illustrated in . Once the distal tip of the rail is disposed in the left atrium the dilator and the sheath may be removed leaving just the rail in the left atrium as generally illustrated in .

The rail may be used as a guide for advancing other devices into the heart and ultimately into the left ventricle . As such the rail should be sufficiently stiff to resist undesirable bending and or kinking and to resist undesirable movement of the distal tip when placed in the apex of the left ventricle as will be explained in greater detail. For example the rail may comprise a stiff 0.018 diameter guide wire having a stiffness of approximately 19 900 000 psi. The stiffness of the rail was determined as follows.

When a force is applied to a long thin column there is no movement of the column until a minimum critical buckling force is achieved P then further buckling occurs though the force does not increase. For a long column of uniform cross section and length l which buckles under a critical force P the following formula applies 

Based on the above an 8 cm section of the rail was tested and a buckling force of 0.41 lbs. was determined. Therefore 

This stiffness of the rail may therefore be approximately 19 900 000 psi. The rail consistent with one embodiment of the present disclosure may therefore be 15 times greater than a typical 0.018 guide wire for example a 0.018 angled standard exchange guide wire made by Merit Medical Systems of South Jordan Utah Model H20STDA18260EX which was determined to have a stiffness of approximately 1 360 000 psi based on the same methodology . Of course the rail may have a stiffness greater than or less than 19 900 000 psi and may have a diameter greater than or less than 0.018 . The rail should have a diameter and stiffness sufficient to fit within the delivery catheter and to allow an implant to be advanced along the length without buckling or kinking.

Turning now to a retaining device may be advanced into the left ventricle . For example the retaining device may be advanced into the left ventricle proximate to the apex of the left ventricle . Consistent with one embodiment of the present disclosure the retaining device may be advanced from the femoral artery through the aorta and aortic valve and into the left ventricle proximate to the apex however the retaining device may be advanced to the left ventricle according to a variety of different techniques.

The retaining device may comprise any device configured to be delivered at least proximate to the apex of the left ventricle and configured to retain at least a portion of the rail and to generally fix the position of at least a portion of the rail within the left ventricle and in particular proximate to the apex . While not a limitation unless specifically claimed as such one example of a retaining device is shown in . For example the retaining device may comprise a snaring device configured to substantially retain at least a portion of the rail about a distal end . The snaring device may comprise a catheter comprising at least one shaft defining at least one lumen and may include a tapered distal end . A wire loop may be configured to extend outwardly beyond the distal end of the catheter to form a loop in a first position as generally illustrated in and to be at least partially retracted within the catheter in a second position as generally illustrated in such that at least a portion of the wire loop may be disposed within the lumen to retain the rail . The wire loop may therefore retain the rail by being tightened around the rail and to hold the rail against the distal end of the catheter .

The catheter may comprise an 8 French catheter having a diameter of approximately 0.105 . The wire loop may be configured to be slideably disposed within the catheter and may comprise a wire having a diameter of approximately 0.021 and may define wire loop when in the first position comprising a generally oval or circular shape having a diameter of approximately 0.42 across and may extend beyond the distal end a length of approximately 0.693 .

The snaring device may also comprise a hub for example but not limited to a Luer hub coupled to a proximal end of the catheter . At least a portion of the wire loop may extend beyond the proximal end of the catheter . As shown the wire loop may comprise a single length of wire disposed through the lumen and having both ends extending beyond the proximal end and beyond the hub . According to this embodiment a user may retain the rail by first disposing the loop of the wire loop around at least a portion of the rail . With at least a portion of the rail within the loop the user may urge one or more of the ends proximally i.e. from the distal end towards the proximal end thereby retracting the loop and the wire loop into the snaring device . As the loop is retracted the loop may tighten around the rail and may generally retain the rail against the distal end of the catheter . A clamp may be placed about the ends of the wire loop to keep the loop tight thereby retaining the rail against the catheter .

While the wire loop has been described having both ends extending beyond the proximal end the wire loop may also have a single end extending beyond the proximal end and second end configured to form a loop and to be disposed generally about the distal end . Other embodiments are also possible and are within the scope of the present disclosure for example but not limited to a spring biased retaining device and or a retaining device comprising a plurality of fingers configured to be extended beyond the distal end and to be retracted proximally.

Turning now to the rail may be placed in the left ventricle . For example with the rail in the left atrium a delivery device may be used to advance the rail to the left ventricle . The delivery device may be configured to receive at least a portion of the rail for example at least the distal tip of the rail and to pass through the cusps and chordae not shown for clarity of the mitral valve . The delivery device may therefore be configured to reduce the potential for the rail to become entangled within and or damage the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve .

One example of a delivery device consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated in . The delivery device may comprise a catheter having a shaft defining at least one lumen configured to at least partially receive the rail . The catheter may also comprise a distal tip for example but not limited to a tapered distal tip and an expanding portion disposed generally proximate to the distal tip . The expanding portion may be configured to expand from a first position in which the expanding member is generally collapsed as generally illustrated in to a second position in which the expanding member is expanded as generally illustrated in . As shown in the expanding portion may have a diameter approximately equal to the diameter of the shaft when in the first position and may have a diameter greater than the diameter of the shaft when in the second position.

The diameter of the expanding portion should be small enough in the first position to be advanced over the rail to the left atrium and large enough when in the second position to be advanced through the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve to reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . For example the shaft may have a diameter of approximately 0.062 e.g. a 5 Fr and a length of approximately 110 cm or greater. The expanding portion may diameter of approximately 0.100 in the first position and a diameter of approximately 15 mm to approximately 20 mm cm in the second position with a length of approximately 8 to approximately 10 mm.

According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the delivery device may comprise a balloon catheter . The expanding portion of the balloon catheter may comprise a balloon or the like which may be selectively collapsed and or expanded. For example the balloon may comprise a resiliently expandable collapsible material such as but not limited to silicone Yulex or the like. The balloon catheter may comprise a first lumen configured to receive the rail as discussed above and at least a second lumen configured to selectively collapse and or expand the balloon . For example the second lumen may be configured to communicate a fluid such as but not limited to a liquid and or gas to selectively collapse and or expand the balloon . The fluid may comprise carbon dioxide and may optionally include a contrast media to facilitate viewing the balloon with one or more visualization techniques for example but not limited to fluoroscopy or the like .

One or more of the lumens may comprise a hub disposed proximate a proximal end and may be coupled to the catheter by way of one or more couplers . In addition one or more of the hubs may also include a coupler or connection configured to be coupled to a rail lumen and balloon lumen not shown respectively. The shaft of the catheter may comprise one or more position identifiers configured to facilitate positioning of the balloon catheter and in particular the distal tip and or the balloon . For example the position identifiers may comprise radiopaque markers disposed about the region of the distal tip . The position markers may be spaced evenly along the shaft such as but not limited to approximately 2 cm intervals from the distal tip and may be used to verify the position of the balloon catheter and or for sizing the implant to be delivered. The balloon catheter may have an overall length i.e. from the distal tip to the couplers of approximately 145 cm or less.

Turning back to with the distal tip of the rail received in the lumen of the balloon catheter the balloon may be expanded and advanced through the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . As mentioned above receiving the rail within the balloon catheter and expanding the balloon may reduce the potential for entangled and or damage to the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve as the balloon catheter and the rail are advanced through the mitral valve into the left ventricle . The flow of blood through the mitral valve may facilitate advancement of the balloon catheter through the mitral valve and to the apex of the left ventricle as generally illustrated in .

The orientation of the cusps also called leaflets of the mitral valve are shown schematically in all figures of the heart except for and . shows the same anterior posterior section of the heart of many of the other figures but it also shows more anatomically correct detail of the mitral valve cusps . The aortic cusp which is closest of the two mitral cusps to the aortic valve may be seen in and the other cusp the mural cusp is not seen in this view. The balloon is illustrated passing through a gap formed by the two papillary muscles the chordae which connect the tips of the papillary muscles to the aortic cusp and the floor of the left ventricle. Not shown are the chordae that connect the same papillary muscles to each side of the mural cusp. This gap may only exist during left ventricular diastole when the left ventricle is relaxed and filled with blood flowing in from the left atrium.

With the distal tip of the balloon catheter disposed proximate the apex the rail may be advanced outwardly through the distal tip as generally illustrated in . When at least the distal tip of the rail is extended beyond the distal tip the distal tip of the rail may be snared or captured with the loop of the retaining device as generally illustrated in .

Once the distal tip of the rail is retained by the retaining device the rail may be generally held in place relative to the apex and the balloon may be retracted away from the rail and through the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the balloon may be retracted through the mitral valve to the transseptal puncture with the balloon in the expanded position. The balloon may optionally be run back down the rail through the mitral valve and then retracted again to assure that the rail is properly positioned and anchored by the retaining device proximate the apex to provide a free and clear pathway for the introduction of the implant over the rail . Once a pathway has been established the balloon may be collapsed and removed completely from the patient.

With the rail in place proximate the apex the implant may be delivered to the left ventricle as generally illustrated in . According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the implant may be delivered to the left ventricle using a delivery catheter . The delivery catheter may comprise a lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the rail to advance the delivery catheter proximate to the apex of the left ventricle . In addition the delivery catheter may also comprise a lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the implant .

One example of a delivery catheter consistent with the present disclosure is illustrated in . The delivery catheter may comprise a dilator configured to be at least partially received within a sheath not shown in this figured for clarity . The dilator may define at least one lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the rail . For example the lumen may have an internal diameter of approximately 0.038 The dilator may also comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The shaft may comprise a rigid distal portion for example having a durometer of approximately 55 D and a length of approximately 2 and a flexible portion substantially adjacent to the rigid distal portion for example having a durometer of 35 D . The combination of the rigid portion and the flexible portion may facilitate advancement of the delivery catheter to the left ventricle while minimizing the risk of kinking or damaging the cardiovascular system. The delivery catheter may also be configured to be steerable. The device and or method for steering the delivery catheter may include any device or method known to those skilled in the art. The short flexible portion may facilitate bending the dilator along the length of the rail while minimizing kinking when the implant is introduced. The delivery catheter may also comprise a hub such as but not limited to a female luer locking fitting or the like disposed about the proximal end .

Another example of a dilator for the steerable catheter is illustrated in . The shaft may comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The shaft may comprise a most distal portion having a durometer of approximately 55 D and a length of approximately 2 a central portion with a durometer of approximately 35 D and a length of approximately 2 and the remaining proximal length of the shaft having a durometer of approximately 75 D. The combination of three regions of varying stiffness may facilitate the advancement of the delivery system and implant where the steerable catheter must make the bend from the site of the transseptal puncture through the left atrium and down through the mitral valve.

Turning back to the delivery catheter may be advanced along the rail through the transseptal puncture through the mitral valve and proximate to the apex within the left ventricle as generally illustrated in . With the delivery catheter proximate the apex the dilator may be removed from the sheath of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . The implant may then be received in and advanced through the lumen of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the implant may be loaded into the lumen over the rail using a loading tool. Alternatively the implant may be loaded into the lumen beside the rail as generally illustrated using a loading tool. For example the loading tool may comprise a blow pipe to introduce the implant through the seal of the fitting for example but not limited to a Touhy Borst fitting disposed about the proximal end of the delivery catheter . Using a flexible shaft pusher the implant may be advanced through the lumen of the delivery catheter until the implant may be positioned proximate the distal end of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . The implant may be seen using one or more visual techniques for example one or more of the visual techniques discussed herein.

Turning now to one embodiment of the implant consistent with the present disclosure is shown. The implant may comprise a shaft a spacer disposed proximate a proximal end of the shaft and one or more anchoring portions disposed proximate a distal end of the shaft . As best seen in the implant may define at least one passageway configured to receive the rail such that the implant may be advanced along the length of the rail through the delivery catheter as described herein. For example the shaft spacer and the anchoring portion may each define a portion of the passageway extending generally from the proximal end to the distal end of the implant .

The shaft may comprise a generally flexible member. For example the shaft may comprise a generally helically wound wire defining a generally cylindrical member. The shaft may be stiff enough to resist and or prevent buckling kinking while the implant is being advanced through the delivery catheter . The shaft may also be flexible enough to allow a sufficient a degree of movement of the spacer with respect to the anchor to allow the spacer to self align with respect the cusps of the a heart valve such that the implant may at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve when in the closed position.

The spacer may be coupled to the shaft for example by way of a collet or the like. The spacer may comprise a spacer cage and a balloon disposed over at least a portion of the outer surface of the spacer cage . The spacer cage and or the balloon may comprise a resiliently flexible structure configured to at least partially collapse from an expanded position as generally illustrated in to the retracted or collapsed position as generally illustrated in . When in the collapsed position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to be received in and advanced along the lumen of the delivery catheter . When in the expanded position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as generally illustrated in .

Turning back to the spacer cage may comprise a frame or ribbed structure for example a frame of resilient flexible material such as but not limited to shape memory materials for example but not limited to nickel titanium compositions e.g. Nitinol or the like . The spacer cage may comprise a plurality of support structures extending generally along the longitudinal axis of the implant . The support structures may be configured to resiliently bend radially inwardly and or outwardly for example to facilitate loading of the implant within the delivery catheter and or to facilitate sealing with the mitral valve .

The balloon may be configured to be at least partially disposed about the outer surface of the spacer cage . The balloon may comprise a resilient flexible biologically acceptable material. For example the balloon may comprise Elasteon material or the like. The balloon may be coupled or otherwise secured to at least a portion of one or more of the support structures for example but not limited to overmolding adhesives and or laminating and or may be only secured about the ends of the spacer cage .

The spacer may therefore be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. As such the configuration and or geometries of the spacer may depend upon the particulars of the condition of the patient s mitral valve and the damage thereto. The implant may have sufficient overall flexibility to facilitate advancement of the implant along the rail within the delivery catheter to minimize the potential of the implant becoming wedged or stuck within the delivery catheter . In addition the implant may also have sufficient overall rigidity to maintain the spacer within the mitral valve such that the implant performs as intended.

The implant may also comprise an anchor portion . The anchor portion may be configured to generally secure the position of the implant within the heart and more specifically to generally secure the position of the implant proximate to the apex and the spacer within the mitral valve . According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the anchor portion may comprise a plurality of tines configured to be coupled to and or otherwise attached to or engage native coronary tissue. The plurality of tines may extend generally radially outwardly from a distal end of the implant towards a proximal end e.g. generally radially outwardly from the anchor portion towards the spacer . The plurality of tines may have a generally arcuate shape configured to engage with the generally conical shape of the region of the apex in the left ventricle as generally illustrated in .

The anchor portion may optionally comprise a pivot configured to allow the shaft and or the spacer to pivot and or rotate relative to the anchor portion . For example the pivot may comprise a gimbal assembly as generally illustrated in . The pivot may allow the implant to self center itself within the mitral valve thereby allowing the implant to be less precisely secured within the left ventricle .

Turning now to the implant may be deployed from the delivery catheter by urging the implant forward while simultaneously withdrawing the delivery catheter . As the implant exits the delivery catheter the anchoring portion for example the plurality of tines which were compressed while received in the delivery catheter may expand generally radially outwardly to engage the native coronary tissue within the left ventricle as generally illustrated in . Once the anchor portion has been secured within the left ventricle the retaining device may release the rail and the rail and the retaining device may be withdrawn as generally illustrated in . The position and operation of the implant may be confirmed by introducing contrast fluid into the left ventricle to verify how much if any regurgitation still exists.

Another embodiment of the implant consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated in . The implant may comprise a shaft a spacer disposed proximate a proximal end of the shaft and one or more anchoring portions disposed proximate a distal end of the shaft and a releasable coupler disposed about the proximal end. The shaft may comprise a generally flexible member. For example the shaft may comprise a generally helically wound wire defining a generally cylindrical member. The shaft may be stiff enough to resist and or prevent buckling kinking while the implant is being advanced through the delivery catheter .

The spacer may be coupled to the shaft for example by way of a collet or the like. The spacer may comprise a spacer cage and a balloon disposed over at least a portion of the outer surface of the spacer cage . The spacer cage and or the balloon may comprise a resiliently flexible structure configured to at least partially collapse from an expanded position as generally illustrated in to the retracted or collapsed position as generally illustrated in when loaded within the delivery catheter . When in the collapsed position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to be received in and advanced along the lumen of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . When in the expanded position the spacer cage and balloon may be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as generally illustrated in .

According to one embodiment the spacer cage may comprise a frame or ribbed structure for example a frame of resilient flexible material such as but not limited to shape memory materials for example but not limited to nickel titanium compositions e.g. Nitinol or the like . The spacer cage may comprise a plurality of support structures extending generally along the longitudinal axis of the implant . The support structures may be configured to resiliently bend radially inwardly and or outwardly for example to facilitate loading of the implant within the delivery catheter and or to facilitate sealing with the mitral valve .

The balloon may be configured to be at least partially disposed about the outer surface of the spacer cage . The balloon may comprise a resilient flexible biologically acceptable material. For example the balloon may comprise Elasteon material or the like. The balloon may be coupled or otherwise secured to at least a portion of one or more of the support structures for example but not limited to overmolding adhesives and or laminating and or may be only secured about the ends of the spacer cage .

The spacer may therefore be configured to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. As such the configuration and or geometries of the spacer may depend upon the particulars of the condition of the patient s mitral valve and the damage thereto. The implant may have sufficient overall flexibility to facilitate advancement of the implant along the delivery catheter to minimize the potential of the implant becoming wedged or stuck within the delivery catheter . In addition the implant may also have sufficient overall rigidity to maintain the spacer within the mitral valve such that the implant performs as intended.

The implant may also comprise an anchor portion . The anchor portion may be configured to generally secure the position of the implant within the heart and more specifically to generally secure the position of the implant proximate to the apex and the spacer within the mitral valve . According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure the anchor portion may comprise a plurality of tines configured to be coupled to and or otherwise attached to or engage native coronary tissue. The plurality of tines may extend generally radially outwardly from a distal end of the implant and away from the proximal end e.g. generally radially outwardly from the anchor portion and away from the spacer . The plurality of tines may have a generally arcuate shape configured to engage with the generally conical shape of the region of the apex in the left ventricle as generally illustrated in .

The anchor portion may optionally comprise a pivot configured to allow the shaft and or the spacer to pivot and or rotate relative to the anchor portion . For example the pivot may comprise a gimbal assembly . The pivot may allow the implant to self center itself within the mitral valve thereby allowing the implant to be less precisely secured within the left ventricle .

The implant may also include one or more releasable couplers disposed about the proximal end as mentioned above. The releasable couplers may be configured to releasably engage a retractor and may allow the implant to be at least partially retracted back into the delivery catheter after exiting delivery catheter within the heart . This may allow the implant to be test fit within the left ventricle and or may allow the implant to be removed after implantation.

The releasable coupler may comprise one or more apertures and or bails configured to receive a suture or the like as best seen in . The bail may be mounted secured or otherwise coupled to the implant such as but not limited to the spacer and may extend generally away from the proximal end of the implant . For example the bail may be coupled to the spacer cage and may be an integral unitary component thereof. The bail may also be coupled to the anchor portion for example within a cavity defined by the anchor portion with one or more fasteners as best seen in . The suture may comprise a length of wire configured to form a loop disposed though the bail and extending through the delivery catheter . The releasable coupler and or the retractor may also comprise any devices configured to allow the implant to be at least partially withdrawn back into the delivery catheter and to allow the implant to be released once in place within the heart.

Consistent with one embodiment of the present disclosure the implant loaded in to the delivery catheter as generally described herein. Once the implant is loaded in the delivery catheter a pusher configured to be received within the delivery catheter may also be loaded. The pusher may comprise a shaft coupled to a body configured to generally contact proximal end of the implant and to urge the implant along the length of the rail within the delivery catheter generally towards the left ventricle until the anchor portion of the implant is proximate the distal end of the delivery catheter as generally illustrated in . Optionally the pusher may be cannulated to define at least one longitudinally disposed internal passageway configured to receive the rail and or the retractor . The rail and the retractor may be disposed within the same or different passageways within the pusher . The pusher may also be configured to allow one or more of the rail and the retractor to pass between the outside of the pusher and the inside of the delivery catheter . Once the placement of the distal end of the delivery catheter has been confirmed e.g. proximate the apex within the left ventricle the implant may be urged out of the delivery catheter and engage the native coronary tissue of the left ventricle for example by urging the implant with the pusher and or retracting the delivery catheter back through the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . Once at least a portion of the anchor portion exits the delivery catheter the tines may begin to expand radially outwardly and engage the native coronary tissue of the left ventricle proximate the apex .

After confirming the placement of the implant within the left ventricle and mitral valve the rail may be released from the retaining device and the retaining device and or the rail may be removed from the heart as generally illustrated in . After confirming the operation of the implant the retractor may be released from the implant by pulling one end of the suture generally towards the proximal end of the delivery catheter until one end of the suture passes through the bail and the retractor and the delivery device may be withdrawn from the heart .

The implant may be retracted and or withdrawn after delivery and or partial delivery within the heart or delivery catheter for example due to improper placement within the heart and or improper operation by pulling both ends of the suture generally towards the proximal end of the delivery catheter and or pushing the delivery catheter over the implant as generally illustrated in . Because the plurality of tines may extend radially outwardly and away from the spacer the tines may contract as the implant is loaded back into the distal end of the delivery catheter and may also disengage the anchor portion from the coronary tissue.

An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also comprise other embodiments for example but not limited to one or more of the implants as described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 258 828 filed Oct. 26 2005 and entitled HEART VALVE IMPLANT Ser. No. 11 940 724 filed on Nov. 15 2007 and entitled HEART REGURGITATION METHOD AND APPARATUS Ser. No. 11 748 121 filed on May 14 2007 and entitled BALLOON MITRAL SPACER Ser. No. 11 748 138 filed on May 14 2007 and entitled SOLID CONSTRUCT MITRAL SPACER Ser. No. 11 940 674 filed on Nov. 15 2007 and entitled MITRAL SPACER Ser. No. 11 748 147 filed on May 14 2007 and entitled SAFETY FOR MITRAL VALVE PLUG and Ser. No. 11 940 694 filed on Nov. 15 2007 and entitled IMPLANT DELIVERY SYSTEM AND METHOD all of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The size and or configuration of the implant may be determined based on a comparison with a reference size. For example a catheter having a known outer diameter and or calibrated length markings such as but not limited to the radiopague markings described herein may be used as a reference for determining the length of the implant and or the diameter of the spacer. Consistent with another embodiment the reference such as but not limited to a stainless steel ball or the like may also be placed on the patient s body which may show up on fluoroscopy when viewing the mitral valve. The reference may be configured to reduce and or eliminate the potential for foreshortening. The length of the implant may be long enough such that when spacer is at least partially disposed within the mitral valve when the implant is secured within the left ventricle but not too long that it may damage the left atrium. The diameter of the implant may be large enough to reduce the regurgitation across the mitral valve to a satisfactory level i.e. a level which appropriate based on the patient s medical condition but not too large that it reduces the flow through the mitral valve below a minimum threshold. It may be appreciated that the upper and lower limits for the length and or diameter may depend upon the patient s condition situation. Other methods and or devices for sizing and or shaping the implant may also be used with the present disclosure.

As described above a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in the treatment mitral valve regurgitation. However the heart valve implant as well as its associated methods may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present disclosure should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to an apparatus system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which it is fairly legally and equitably entitled.

