---

title: Mode switching user device
abstract: An item-providing system supplies items to a user device for consumption at the user device via communication infrastructure. In one representative implementation, a user device includes a mode switching wireless communication module. The mode switching wireless communication module is adapted to receive a first paging signal via a first communication protocol when in a first mode of operation and adapted to receive a second paging signal via a second communication protocol when in a second mode of operation. The user device also includes a to-do list processing module. In response to receiving one of the first or second paging signal, the to-do list processing module sends a request to a remote network device. The request requests that one or more instructions be sent from the remote network device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442560&OS=08442560&RS=08442560
owner: 
number: 08442560
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081029
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 989 050 entitled MODE SWITCHING USER DEVICE filed on Nov. 19 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Users have traditionally consumed media items such as books magazines newspapers etc. in hard copy form. For instance a user may obtain a physical book from a bookstore or a library. The user can read the book by manually flipping through its pages in conventional fashion.

A user may now also receive and consume some media items in electronic form. In one case a user may use a personal computer to connect to a network accessible source of media items via a conventional telephone or cable modem. The user may download a document from this source. The user may consume the document by printing it out and reading it in conventional fashion. Alternatively the user may read the document in electronic form that is by reading the book as presented on a computer monitor.

A provider of electronic media items faces various challenges. For instance many users continue to prefer consuming media items in traditional form even though these media items are available in electronic form. The provider confronts the task of capturing the interest of such users while providing a solution that is viable from a technical standpoint and a business related standpoint.

According to one illustrative embodiment this disclosure sets forth functionality for downloading items to a user device. The functionality can be manifested in various systems modules computer readable media data structures methods and other forms.

The item referenced above may correspond to any type of content. In one case the item corresponds to a digital media item. The media item can include without limitation text content image content audio content video content hypertext protocol content and so on or any combination of these kinds of content. In addition or alternatively the item can include machine readable code markup language script and so forth. For instance an item may correspond to a software upgrade or the like.

More specifically in one case the term item may refer to a specific unit of merchandisable content such as a book e.g. an eBook an issue of a magazine and so on. Alternatively an item may refer to smaller parts of a merchandisable unit such as a chapter of a book or a song in an album. Alternatively an item may refer to a larger compilation of component items that are related in any manner. For instance an item can refer to multiple issues of a magazine in a particular year.

The term entry corresponds to information which refers to an item. For example a list of entries may include reference information which identifies respective media items.

Certain drawings illustrate the features by showing various logic modules functionality and so forth. The terms logic module functionality and the like generally represent hardware software firmware or any combination of these elements or yet some other kind of implementation. For instance in the case of a software implementation the terms logic module or functionality may represent program code or other instructions that perform specified tasks when executed on a processing device or devices e.g. a CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more machine readable media.

The term machine readable media or the like refers to any kind of media for retaining information in any form including various kinds of storage devices magnetic optical static etc. . The term machine readable media also encompasses transitory forms of representing information including various hardwired and or wireless links for transmitting the information from one point to another.

Other figures illustrate features in signal diagram form and or flowchart form. In this mode of explanation certain operations are described as constituting distinct tasks performed in a certain order. Such implementations are illustrative and non limiting. Multiple operations described in these figures can be grouped together and performed in a single operation while certain single operations can be performed in multiple parts. Certain operations can be performed in an order that differs from the order illustrated in the figures. Certain operations can be performed by different agents than is identified in the figures. The operations shown in the figures can be implemented by software firmware hardware manual processing or other form or by any combination of these forms.

In general the various features described in the implementations can be regarded as optional features meaning that these features can be omitted or replaced with other features. Further the various implementations described herein can be supplemented by adding additional features.

In a particular embodiment a user device includes a mode switching wireless communication module. The mode switching wireless communication module is adapted to receive a first paging signal via a first communication protocol when in a first mode of operation and to receive a second paging signal via a second communication protocol when in a second mode of operation. The user device also includes a to do list processing module. The to do list processing module sends a request to a remote network device in response to receiving one of the first or second paging signal. The request requests that one or more instructions be sent from the remote network device.

In a particular embodiment a method includes receiving a paging signal in a first communication protocol while in a first mode of operation. The method also includes switching to a second mode of operation. The method further includes establishing a wireless connection to a remote network device using the first communication protocol or a second communication protocol. The method also includes sending a request to access a data list to the remote network device the data list related to the received paging signal.

In a particular embodiment a system includes an interface to receive a ring request message requesting that a ring message be sent to a user device. The system also includes mode specific ring logic to determine whether the user device has an active session. When the user device has an active session the mode specific ring logic sends the ring message to the user device via active session. When the user device does not have an active session the mode specific ring logic sends the ring message to the user device via a messaging protocol.

In a particular embodiment a method includes receiving a paging request related to a user device. The method also includes determining whether the user device has an active session. The method further includes sending a ring message to an Internet Protocol IP address and paging port associated with the user device when the user device has an active session. The method also includes sending a ring message to a telephony paging address associated with the user device when the user device does not have an active session.

In a particular embodiment an electronic reader device includes a user interface including a display and user controls to enable a user to download and read content. The electronic reader device also includes a wireless data modem including a wireless interface for communication with a server having access to downloadable content. The wireless data modem also includes logic to selectively communicate with the server via a network using either a first preferred communication protocol or a second alternate communication protocol. The electronic reader device further includes a processor coupled to the wireless data modem and to the user interface. The electronic reader device also includes a memory storing the content coupled to the processor.

As explained above the term item has broad connotation. The following list which is non exhaustive identifies representative types of items 

The item providing system IPS corresponds to any functionality or combination of functionality for forwarding items to the user device . In one case the IPS can correspond to network accessible server based functionality various data stores and or other data processing equipment. The IPS can be implemented by a single collection of functionality provided at a single physical site. Alternatively the IPS can be implemented by multiple collections of functionality optionally provided at plural physical sites. The IPS can be administered by a single entity or plural entities.

In one case the IPS corresponds to an entity which provides items to users upon the users purchase of the items. In this role the IPS can essentially act as a bookseller or the like. In one particular commercial environment the IPS may also offer services which allow users to purchase hard copy books for physical delivery to the users in this context the IPS can allow users to download electronic items to respective user devices as part of its entire suite of services. In other cases the IPS corresponds to an entity which provides items to users on a non fee basis or on some other type of alternative compensation basis. Thus the term a provider of items should be construed broadly to encompass educational institutions governmental organizations libraries non profit organizations and so on or some cooperative combination of any two or more entities.

The user device corresponds to any type of electronic processing device for receiving items from the IPS . In one implementation the user device is readily portable meaning that the user can freely carry the user device from one location to another. In one particular case the user device is designed as a book reader device also known as an eBook reader device. In this case the user device functions as the electronic counterpart of a paper based book. The user can hold the user device in a manner that is similar to a physical book electronically turn the pages of the book and so on. Without limitation illustrates a particular type of eBook reader device. Additional details regarding this particular type of reader device are provided below. Alternatively the user device can correspond to any other type of portable devices such as a portable music player a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a game module a laptop computer and so on and or any combination of these types of devices. Alternatively or in addition the user device can correspond to a device that is not readily portable such as a personal computer set top box associated with a television a gaming console and so on.

A communication infrastructure bi directionally couples the IPS to the user device . Namely the IPS downloads items upgrades and or other information to the user device via the communication infrastructure . The IPS receives various instructions and other data from the user device via the communication infrastructure .

The communication infrastructure can include any combination of communication functionality including any combination of hardwired links and or wireless links etc. For instance to be discussed below in turn shows one implementation of the communication infrastructure which includes a combination of a wide area network WAN and wireless infrastructure. By virtue of the wireless component of the communication infrastructure the user can use the user device to purchase items and consume items without being tethered to the IPS via hardwired links. Thus for instance a user can purchase and consume an eBook using the device while riding in a car as a passenger while hiking in park while boating on a lake and so forth.

In a particular embodiment the user device is a mode switching user device. That is the user device can switch between two or more communication modes to facilitate communication between the user device and the IPS . In a particular case the two or more communication modes are both wireless data communication modes. For example a first communication mode may be a 1x Radio Transmission Technology 1xRTT communication mode and a second communication mode may be an Evolution Data Optimized EV DO communication mode. The user device can switch between the two or more communication modes as needed to achieve improved data communication rates and conserve power. Additionally the user device can switch between the communication modes based on availability of data networks conforming to the communication modes. That is if a first data network using the first communication mode and a second data network using the second data mode are both available the user device can select the communication mode that best achieves a particular goal e.g. power conservation or high data rate.

In one case the wake up message may correspond to a certain type of voice message such as a telephone ring signal. In this case the wake up message is also referred to as a TelePhone Home TPH signal or paging signal. In a particular embodiment a TPH signal can be used when the user device does not have an active session open with the communication infrastructure when the wake up message is sent. For example a TPH signal can be sent when the user device is in a sleep state.

In another case the wake up message may correspond to a data message sent to an Internet Protocol IP address and port associated with the user device in an active session. That is when the user device in engaged in an active session with the communication infrastructure a particular port of the user device can be designated for receiving wake up messages.

In one case the user device is configured to receive and act on the wake up message without formally answering the wake up message . In some environments a wireless provider system charges a fee when a call is answered but not if a user device is called and does not answer. Thus the strategy of ringing the user device without an answer may allow the IPS to communicate instructions to the user device without incurring a fee.

The communication infrastructure can include multiple components. A first component is a wireless provider system . The wireless provider system corresponds to any infrastructure for providing a wireless exchange with the user device . In one case the wireless provider system can be implemented using various data processing equipment communication towers and so forth not shown . The wireless provider system can use any form of electromagnetic energy to transfer signals such as without limitation radio wave signals. The wireless provider system can use any communication technology to transfer signals such as without limitation spread spectrum technology implemented for instance using the Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocol. The wireless provider system can be administered by a single entity or by a cooperative combination of multiple entities.

The communication infrastructure also includes a communication enabling system . One purpose of the communication enabling system is to serve as an intermediary in passing information between the IPS and the wireless provider system . The communication enabling system can be implemented in any manner such as without limitation by one or more server type computers data stores and or other data processing equipment. The communication enabling system can expose one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The IPS can call on the APIs to perform various respective functions. For example the IPS can send a paging request for a particular user device to the communication enabling system via the APIs . The APIs interact with mode specific ring logic to send a wake up message to the particular user device based on the status of the user device.

The communication enabling system communicates with the wireless provider system via a dedicated channel also referred to as a dedicated communication pipe. The channel is dedicated in the sense that it is exclusively used to transfer information between the communication enabling system and the wireless provider system . In contrast the communication enabling system can communicate with the IPS via a non dedicated communication mechanism such as a public wide area network WAN . For example the WAN may represent the Internet.

The communication enabling system can serve as an adaptor. For instance assume that in one particular implementation the IPS acts as a data center which is set up to receive information via a wide area public network. Assume further that the wireless provider system is set up to interact with clients via a private pipe. The communication enabling system interacts with the IPS via the wide area network and the wireless provider system via the private pipe thus accommodating the processing preferences of the IPS and the wireless provider system . By virtue of this intermediary role the communication enabling system can be referred to as a Mobile Virtual Network Enabler MVNE while the IPS can be referred to as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator MVNO .

The system of also provides various security related features. According to one feature the system applies multiple layers of authentication. Namely the wireless provider system can include authentication functionality A that performs a first level of authentication. The communication enabling system provides authentication functionality A that performs a second level of authentication. The IPS provides authentication functionality A that performs a third layer of authentication. Each layer of authentication performs checking to ensure that the user device that is attempting to interact with the IPS is duly authorized to access the IPS . The distributed nature of the authentication helps ensure that someone who has obtained a user device through improper means cannot gain access to the services provided by the IPS .

According to another security related feature the system can provide various constraints which restrict the manner in which a user can use the device . For example the communication enabling system can be configured such that it will allow user devices to access only one or more predetermined addresses associated with the IPS . This means that in one case a user cannot use the user device to directly access a network accessible site without being first routed through the IPS . This prevents the user from using the user device as an unrestricted broadband interface to network accessible resources.

More specifically the IPS can include a web browsing proxy. When the user attempts to access a network accessible resource the communication enabling system first directs the user to the browsing proxy module. The browsing proxy module can then either deny the request or accept the request by allowing the user to access the network accessible resource . The browsing proxy module can apply various rules in determining whether to deny or accept the request to access the network accessible resource . In this manner the communication enabling system and the IPS do not permit the user to directly access the network accessible resources.

In a particular embodiment the communication enabling system includes mode specific ring logic . In response to a paging request from the IPS the mode specific ring logic accesses a state indicator e.g. at memory related to the representative user device to be paged and determines the state of a user device . The state indicator may indicate whether the user device is an active mode or in a dormant mode e.g. a sleep mode . For example the state indicator can indicate whether the user device is engaged in an active communication session. The mode specific ring logic passes the paging request to an in band ring client or to an out of band ring client .

The out of band ring client is adapted to send TPH signals or wake up messages to user devices that are not in active communication sessions. In a particular embodiment the representative user devices can receive paging messages via the TPH signal even when the user device is not in an active communication session. For example the user device can receive paging messages via a telephony paging protocol when it is not in an active communication session. In response to a page request from the mode specific ring logic the out of band ring client accesses the memory to determine a telephony address associated with the user device to be paged. The out of band ring client sends a page message to the user device using the telephony address to wake up the user device.

The in band ring client is adapted to send paging messages to user devices that are in active communication sessions. In a particular embodiment the representative user device listens for paging messages at a designated paging socket or port when it is in an active communication session. In response to a page request from the mode specific ring logic the in band ring client accesses an IP binding cache e.g. at memory to determine an IP address associated with the user device to be paged and to identify the paging socket for the user device . The in band ring client sends a page message to the user device via the IP address and paging socket.

The mode specific ring logic may also implement a backup notification procedure to contact user devices that do not respond to an initial paging message. For example when a paging message is sent by the in band ring client to the representative user device while the user device is engaged in an active communication session the in band ring client listens for an acknowledgement ACK message indicating that the paging message was received. If the ACK message is not received the in band ring client notifies the mode specific ring logic . The mode specific ring logic sends a page request to the out of band ring client which sends a paging message to the user device via the telephony paging protocol.

In a particular embodiment the user device includes a ring server and user device applications . The user device applications perform the various functions of the user device such as the various functions described with reference to .

The ring server is adapted to receive and process paging messages from the communication enabling system . The ring server includes a socket listener and an out of band listener . The socket listener is adapted to monitor a designated communication port or socket while the user device is engaged in a communication session. The out of band listener is adapted to listen for paging messages received via a telephony protocol e.g. TPH signals . The out of band listener may listen for paging messages whether or not the user device is engaged in a communication session.

When a message is received by the socket listener control logic examines the message to determine whether to send an acknowledgement ACK message. If an ACK message is to be sent the ACK NACK module is invoked to send the ACK message to the communication enabling system . In a particular embodiment the control logic also implements additional procedures depending on the state of the user device . For example the user device may contact the IPS to download a list of instructions.

When a message is received by the out of band listener the control logic examines the message to determine whether to implement a wake up procedure as discussed further with reference to . The wake procedure causes the user device to open a communication session with the communication enabling system . The control logic may also determine that one or more additional procedures should be implemented. For example the control logic can cause the user device to access the IPS to retrieve one or more instructions such as instructions to retrieve one or more items from the IPS .

Addressing the details of the IPS first this system performs various functions. Different modules are associated with these different functions. One module is a content reception system . The content reception system receives content from one or more sources . The sources may represent any type of provider of content such as eBook publishers newspaper publishers other publics of periodicals various feed sources music sources and so on.

The sources may be administered by a single entity or may be administered by separate respective entities. Further the entity that administers the IPS may correspond to an entity which administers one or more of the sources . Alternatively or in addition the entity that administers the IPS may interact with one or more separate entities that administer one or more respective sources . In the latter case the entity that administers the IPS can enter into an agreement with the source entities to receive content from these source entities.

The content creation system can obtain the content through various mechanisms. In one case the content creation system obtains the content via one or more networks . The networks can represent a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN or some combination thereof. The content reception system can receive the information in various forms using any protocol or combination of protocols. For instance the content reception system can receive the information by making a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request by making a File Transfer Protocol FTP request by receiving a feed e.g. an RSS feed and so forth. More generally the content reception system can proactively request the content in and on demand manner based on a pull method of information transfer . Or the content reception system can receive the content in response to the independent transfer operations performed by the sources based on a push method of information transfer . Alternatively the content reception system can use a combination of pull and push transfer mechanisms to receive the content.

The content reception system receives content in the form of items. Without limitation the items can include eBooks audio books music magazine issues journal issues newspaper editions various feeds and so forth. In one case the content reception system may receive some items expressed in a format that is not readable by the user device where the user device may optionally be configured to receive process and present content expressed in one or more predefined formats . To address this situation the content reception system can convert the items from their original format into a device readable format such as without limitation the .mobi format .

The content reception system can store the items that it receives and optionally converts in a content store . The content store can include one or more storage systems for retaining items in electronic form located at a single site or distributed over plural sites administered by one or more entities.

Section B below provides additional information regarding the operation of the content reception system . By way of preview the content reception system can include separate modules for handling pre generated items such as eBooks subscription related items and personal items.

The IPS also includes a subscription module . The subscription module manages users subscriptions to subscription related items. Generally a subscription entitles a user to receive one or more subscription related items which may yet to be received and stored by the content reception system based on any type of consideration or combination of considerations. Without limitation subscription related items include magazines journals newsletters newspapers various feeds and so forth. Users may register to receive subscription related items by purchasing such subscriptions. Alternatively or in addition the IPS can automatically register users to receive subscription related items without the involvement of the users and possibly without the approval of the users . The latter scenario may be appropriate in the case in which the IPS or some other entity registers a user to receive weekly unsolicited advertisements newsletters and so on. The system may allow the user to opt out of receiving such unsolicited information.

The IPS can consult the subscription module to determine what user devices should receive a newly received subscription related item. For instance upon receiving an electronic issue of the magazine Forbes the IPS can consult the subscription module to determine the users who have paid to receive this magazine. The IPS can then send the issue to the appropriate user devices.

An item delivery system represents the functionality which actually performs the transfer of content to the user device . In one illustrative representation the item delivery system includes two components a to do list server module and a content delivery module . The to do list server module generally provides instructions for the user device to retrieve items and perform other operations. The content delivery module allows the user device to obtain the items identified in the instructions received from the to do list server module .

More specifically in a first phase of information retrieval the to do list server module sends a wake up message to the user device . As described above in one illustrative implementation the to do list server module may send the wake up message as a telephone ring signal or as an IP message. The ring server of the user device receives the wake up message. The user device responds to the wake up signal by waking up if asleep which may involve switching from a first power state to a second power state where the second power state consumes more power than the first power state . In a particular embodiment when the user device is asleep the ring server only listens for wake up messages sent as telephony ring signals. In this embodiment when the user device is awake and has an active session open the ring server listens for wake up messages addressed to a particular Internet protocol address and socket designated for paging messages. The user device may optionally respond to the wake up signal without formally answering the signal which avoids or reduces a fee associated with the wireless message. The user device then contacts the to do list server module to request instructions from the server module . More specifically for each user device the to do list server module maintains a list or queue of entries. An entry provides an instruction for a user device to perform an action. One such action e.g. a GET action directs the user device to retrieve an item. In the first phase the user device generally retrieves n such entries.

In a second phase of the downloading procedure the user device contacts the content delivery module to retrieve one or more items identified in the GET related entries. After receiving the wake up message the item delivery system interacts with the user device in a data mode e.g. using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or some other protocol or combination of protocols. The downloading procedure is described in additional detail below.

The IPS also includes a merchant store module . The merchant store module provides access to an item catalog which in turn provides information regarding a plurality of items such as eBooks audio books subscription related items and so on . The merchant store module includes functionality that allows a user to search and browse though the item catalog . The merchant store module can also include functionality that allows a user to purchase items or more generally acquire items based on any terms .

The IPS also includes a personal media library module . The media library module stores for each user a list of the user s prior purchases. The media library module identifies an item that the user has purchased by providing a link to the item in the content store . The user device may access the personal media library module to initiate downloading of an item that has been previously purchased by the user but has been deleted by the user device for any reason.

The IPS also includes a browsing proxy module . The browsing proxy module allows the user to access one or more network accessible resources via a browser module that is resident on the user device .

The IPS also includes various security related features such as one or more authorization stores . The authorization stores provide information which enables various components of the IPS to determine whether to allow the user to perform various functions such as access the merchant store module download items change settings and so on.

The above enumerated list of modules is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed by the IPS . As indicated by the label Other Server Side Functionality the IPS can include additional functions.

Now turning to the device side features of the system the user device includes a device to do list processing module . The purpose of the to do list processing module is to interact with the item delivery system to download items from the item delivery system . Namely in a first phase of the downloading procedure the ring server of the to do list processing module receives a wake up message from the to do list server module which prompts it to wake up if asleep and to contact the to do list server module to retrieve a set of n entries. Each entry includes an instruction which directs the to do list processing module to perform an action. In a second phase for a GET type entry the to do list processing module contacts the content delivery module to request and retrieve an item identified by the GET type entry.

Upon downloading an item the user device can store the item in a device side memory which may represent flash type memory or any other type of memory. Although not shown the user device can also retrieve information from any other source of content . In one illustrative case the other source of content may represent a personal computer or other data processing device which transfers the content to the user device via a Universal Serial Bus USB connection and or any other type s of connection s . In this scenario the other source of content in turn may receive the items from the IPS or other source via hardwired connection e.g. non wireless connection . For example to receive an audio book the user may use a personal computer to download the audio book from a network accessible source of such content. The user may then transfer the audio book to the user device via USB connection. In another illustrative case the other source of content may represent a portable memory module of any type such as an SD type memory.

The user device also includes a reader module . The illustrative purpose of the reader module is to present media items for consumption by the user using the user device . For example the reader module can be used to display an eBook to the user to provide a user experience which simulates the reading of a paper based physical book.

The user device also includes a content manager module . The purpose of the content manager module is to allow the user to manage items that are available for consumption using the user device . For example the content manager module allows the user to view a list of items that can be consumed. The content manager module also identifies the sources of respective items one such source corresponds to the device memory another source corresponds to an attached portable memory e.g. represented by an other source another source corresponds to items identified in the personal media library module . The content manager module allows the user to filter and sort the items in various ways. For example the user can selectively view items that originate from the device store .

The user device also includes a store interaction module . The store interaction module allows the user device to interact with the merchant store module . The user may engage the store interaction module to search and browse through items to purchase items to read and author customer reviews and so on. As described above the user can also use a personal computer or the like to interact with the merchant store module via hardwired links.

The above enumerated list of modules is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed by the user device . As indicated by the label Other Device Side Functionality the user device can include additional functions.

At a paging request is received. The communication enabling system may invoke mode specific ring logic to determine how to page the user device . At the mode specific ring logic accesses state data related to the particular user device . The state data indicates whether the particular user device is in an active mode. The state data is used to determine whether the user device is in an active session with the communication enabling system at .

When the user device does not have an active session the mode specific ring logic determines a telephony address associated with the particular user device at . At the mode specific ring logic accesses a telephony paging client also referred to as an out of band ring client . The telephony address of the particular user device is passed to the telephony paging client which sends a ring message to the telephony address at .

When the user device has an active session the mode specific ring logic accesses an IP binding cache at and determines a telephony address and paging port associated with the particular user device at . At the mode specific ring logic accesses an in band ring client . The in band ring client sends a ring message to the user device IP address and paging port at .

The mode specific ring logic listens for an acknowledgement ACK that the ring message was received at . If no ACK is received the mode specific ring logic reverts to a backup paging protocol by determining the user device telephony address at accessing the telephony paging client at and sending a ring message to the telephony address at . If the ACK is received the communication enabling system returns to listening for a paging request at .

In a particular embodiment a wireless modem of the user device is adapted to selectively communicate with a wireless provider system using either a 1xRTT Mode i.e. the 1x mode or a Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Preferred Mode the EVDO mode . The 1x mode 1 times radio transmission technology mode uses a conventional 1xRTT protocol. The EVDO mode offers enhanced data capacity and higher data rates. In some instances the EVDO mode provides data rates as much as 10 times faster than the 1xRTT mode.

Referring to when a wide area network switch is enabled the wireless data modem Modem enters a 1xRTT only state . During a power up or wake up trigger event a Division Multiplex Daemon application DMDaemon is initialized and during initialization the DMDaemon triggers a soft switch that changes the state of the Modem from the 1xRTT only state to an EVDO preferred state .

In the EVDO preferred state the Modem attempts to connect to a network in the EVDO mode . When connected in the EVDO mode the Modem uses an EVDO protocol to communicate with a network via Internet Protocol IP data packets. In particular the EVDO protocol includes use of an IP address of a particular network port to send and receive data packets. When the Modem is in the EVDO preferred state and is connected to a network in the EVDO mode the Modem monitors and receives EVDO based pages but does not monitor or receive 1xRTT based pages since the Modem is not synchronized to the 1xRTT protocol when in the EVDO mode.

After an EVDO connection is established the EVDO connection to the network or service may be temporarily lost. For example the device may be moved out of a signal area or the signal may be temporarily lost or blocked. When the EVDO connection is lost the Modem scans for previous or alternate systems and in the absence of an EVDO signal the Modem may acquire a temporary 1xRTT mode within the EVDO preferred state . In this temporary 1xRTT mode the Modem monitors and receives 1xRTT based pages and is not synchronized or capable of receiving EVDO based pages.

While in the temporary 1xRTT mode when the Modem is idle the Modem periodically stops monitoring and receiving 1xRTT based pages and performs a mode rescan operation to attempt to reestablish an EVDO connection. During this rescan operation the Modem loses synch as it abandons the temporary 1xRTT mode in search for a more preferred system. In particular the Modem scans for a EVDO pilot signal indicating that an EVDO connection may be established. If an EVDO pilot signal is detected the Modem attempts to establish an EVDO connection.

In contrast if after a number of rescans an EVDO pilot signal is not detected the Modem may resynch to the original temporary 1xRTT only state . In particular when the Modem is unable to reestablish a connection to a network in the EVDO preferred state over a number of retries it will continue to search via a Uniform Out of Service UOOS scan process. When a call is attempted the DMDaemon of the Modem can trigger a soft switch to change the operating state back to the 1xRTT only state . In the 1xRTT only state the Modem monitors and receives 1xRTT based pages but is incapable of monitoring or receiving EVDO based pages.

Alternatively when the Electronic Reader remains inactive for a period of time a modem reboot operation is initiated and the Modem changes its state from the EVDO preferred state to the 1xRTT only state . For example to conserve battery power the Electronic Reader may go to sleep after a period of time of non use. In general after a period of inactivity a tethered application processor i.e. a processor that is idle in processing a particular application can provide a sleep trigger . The sleep trigger causes the modem to reboot reverting the Modem to the 1xRTT only state . In this example the application processor and the DMDaemon can be powered down to conserve power.

When subscription content becomes available a 1xRTT page is processed by a listener application which toggles a general processor input output I O line to provide an interrupt to the application processor. In response to the general processor I O interrupt trigger the application processor boots and enables the DMDaemon. The DMDaemon initialization sequence is repeated switching the 1xEV DO modem from the 1xRTT only state to the EVDO preferred state i.e. the preferred operating state .

The Modem is adapted to mode switch between the 1x mode and the EVDO mode via full acquisition process but is not adapted to receive pages while switching. Further the Modem implicitly de registers from either the 1xRTT network or the EVDO network when switching between networks. Thus the Modem that is used in the Electronic Reader i.e. user device is able to communicate with two different systems but is only subscribed to and able to monitor messages from one of the systems at a time. The two different systems are not monitored for pages simultaneously but rather separately and independently.

Additionally the Modem that is used in the Electronic Reader does not simultaneously register with and monitor traffic on two networks at the same time. Instead the Modem attempts to establish a connection using a preferred mode i.e. the EVDO mode . If the EVDO attempt fails the Modem attempts to establish a connection using the 1x mode. Thus the Modem participates in communications via only one network at a time.

At the in band listener listens for ring messages at the designated port or socket. The in band listener blocks waiting for a message to arrive via the data network e.g. from the in band ring client .

When a message is received the message is parsed at to determine whether the message is a ring message. If the message is a ring message the method proceeds to to process a to do list event. For example the to do list processing module may be invoked and may execute a process as described further with respect to .

If the method executes successfully to this point an ACK message is sent at . If the method fails to execute e.g. the message is not a ring message or the message cannot be processed by the to do list processing module a NACK messages is returned at .

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be reduced. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

