---

title: sterol 24-c-methyltransferase compositions for the prevention, treatment and diagnosis of leishmaniasis
abstract: Compositions and methods for preventing, treating and detecting leishmaniasis are disclosed. The compositions generally comprise sterol 24-c-methyltransferase (SMT) polypeptides, portions, variants and/or fusions, as well as polynucleotides encoding SMT polypeptides, portions, variants and/or fusions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08916168&OS=08916168&RS=08916168
owner: Infectious Disease Research Institute
number: 08916168
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080711
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. AI 025038 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is 480239404 SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 20 KB it was created on Jul. 11 2008 and it is being submitted electronically via EFS Web concurrent with the filing of the specification.

The present invention relates generally to compositions and methods for preventing treating and detecting leishmaniasis in patients. More particularly the invention relates to compositions comprising sterol 24 c methyltransferase SMT polypeptides fusion polypeptides thereof as well as polynucleotides encoding such polypeptides and fusions.

Human leishmaniasis is a spectrum of diseases caused by protozoan parasites of the genus . Leishmaniases are roughly classified into three types of diseases cutaneous leishmaniasis CL mucosal leishmaniasis ML and visceral leishmaniasis VL according to the clinical manifestations. Visceral leishmaniasis generally caused by species of the complex i.e. and is the most severe form with approximately 500 000 new cases reported annually information from World Health Organization www dot who dot int leishmaniasis en . Active VL is characterized by hematological and hepatosplenic abnormalities and is generally fatal unless properly treated.

In spite of evidence that sub unit vaccines may be effective in models of VL Basu et al. 2005 174 7160 7171 Stager et al. 2000 165 7064 7071 Ghosh et al. 2001 20 59 66 Wilson et al. 1995 63 2062 2069 Tewary et al. 2005 191 2130 2137 Aguilar Be et al. 2005 73 812 819 and Rafati et al. 2006 24 2169 2175 progress toward defining bona fide antigen candidates effective against VL in vivo has been lacking Several antigens have been identified by serological screening using sera from infected hamsters Goto et al. 2006 74 3939 3944 . Sterol 24 c methyltransferase SMT one of the antigens found to be reactive is an enzyme involved in biosynthesis of ergosterol which is a target molecule of leishmanicidal and fungicidal amphotericin B Pourshafie et al. 2004 48 2409 2414 . Amphotericin B shows selective killing activity selectively against some protozoan parasites and fungi as ergosterol is not found in mammalian cells. Similarly SMT is found in several parasites fungi and plants but is absent in mammals.

Strategies employing vaccines consisting of whole organisms for preventing or treating leishmaniasis have not been effective in humans. Accordingly there remains a significant need for immunogenic compositions and vaccines that can effectively prevent and or treat leishmaniasis in humans and other mammals e.g. canines . The present invention fulfills these needs and offers other related advantages

Briefly stated the present invention provides compositions and methods for preventing treating and detecting leishmaniasis. In one aspect compositions of the invention employ polypeptides comprising at least an immunogenic portion of a sterol 24 c methyltransferase SMT polypeptide or a variant thereof wherein the portion or variant retains the desired immunogenic properties of a full length SMT polypeptide. In a more particular embodiment the SMT polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence of an or SMT polypeptide. In a more specific embodiment the SMT polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOs 1 3 5 and 11.

In another aspect of the invention compositions comprising polynucleotides encoding the above polypeptides are provided as well as recombinant expression vectors comprising these polynucleotide sequences and host cells transformed or transfected with such expression vectors. In a more particular embodiment the polynucleotide comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding an or SMT polypeptide. In a more specific embodiment the SMT polynucleotide comprises a nucleic acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 and 12.

In another aspect the present invention provides a fusion polypeptide comprising at least an immunogenic portion of a SMT antigen and further comprising one or more heterologous fusion partners. In a related aspect polynucleotides encoding such fusion proteins are also provided

In yet another aspect the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions which comprise one or more of the polypeptides and or fusion polypeptides described herein or a polynucleotide encoding such polypeptides in combination with a physiologically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect of the invention vaccine compositions are provided which comprise one or more of the polypeptides and or fusion polypeptides described herein or a polynucleotide encoding such polypeptides in combination with an immunostimulant. In a more particular embodiment the immunostimulant is an adjuvant that induces a predominately Th1 type immune response.

In further aspects the present invention provides methods for stimulating a cellular and or humoral immune response in a patient comprising administering to a patient a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described above.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods for inducing protective immunity against leishmaniasis in a patient comprising administering to a patient a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described above.

In a related aspect methods are provided for treating a patient afflicted with leishmaniasis comprising administering to a patient a pharmaceutical composition or vaccine as described above.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent upon reference to the following detailed description and attached drawings. All references disclosed herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each was incorporated individually.

As noted above the present invention is generally directed to compositions and methods for preventing treating and detecting leishmaniasis. The compositions of the invention include for example polypeptides that comprise at least an immunogenic portion of a sterol 24 c methyltransferase SMT polypeptide or a variant of such a polypeptide wherein the portion or variant retain substantially the same or similar immunogenic properties as a full length SMT polypeptide. As further demonstrated herein immunization strategies using compositions of the invention provide significant in vivo protection against a causative agent of VL in humans and dogs. Further the prophylactic effect achieved using compositions of the invention shows substantial improvements and advantages relative to previously reported vaccine strategies.

As used herein the term polypeptide encompasses amino acid chains of any length including full length proteins wherein the amino acid residues are linked by covalent bonds. A polypeptide comprising an immunogenic portion of an SMT polypeptide may consist solely of an immunogenic portion may contain two or more immunogenic portions and or may contain additional sequences. The additional sequences may be derived from a native SMT polypeptide or may be heterologous and such heterologous sequences may but need not be immunogenic.

An immunogenic portion of a SMT polypeptide is a portion that is capable of eliciting an immune response i.e. cellular and or humoral in a presently or previously infected patient such as a human or a dog and or in cultures of lymph node cells or peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC isolated from presently or previously infected individuals. The cells in which a response is elicited may comprise a mixture of cell types or may contain isolated component cells including but not limited to T cells NK cells macrophages monocytes and or B cells . In a particular embodiment immunogenic portions are capable of inducing T cell proliferation and or a dominantly Th1 type cytokine response e.g. IL 2 IFN and or TNF production by T cells and or NK cells and or IL 12 production by monocytes macrophages and or B cells . Immunogenic portions of the antigens described herein may generally be identified using techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art including the representative methods provided herein.

Immunogenic portions of an SMT polypeptide can be essentially any length provided they retain one or more of the immunogenic regions of SMT that are responsible for and or contribute to the in vivo protection provided against leishmaniasis by the full length SMT polypeptide as disclosed herein. In one embodiment the ability of an immunogenic portion to react with antigen specific antisera may be enhanced or unchanged relative to the native protein or may be diminished by less than 50 and preferably less than 20 relative to the native protein. Illustrative portions will generally be at least 10 15 25 50 or 100 amino acids in length or more up to and including full length SMT polypeptide. In a particular embodiment an immunogenic portion of an SMT polypeptide is one capable of providing protection for example in an in vivo assay as described herein against a species from the complex i.e. and or which are believed to be causative agents of VL in humans and dogs.

The compositions and methods of the present invention also encompass variants of the above polypeptides. A polypeptide variant as used herein is a polypeptide that differs from a native protein in one or more substitutions deletions additions and or insertions such that the desired immunogenicity of the variant polypeptide is not substantially diminished relative to a native SMT polypeptide. In one embodiment the ability of a variant to react with antigen specific antisera may be enhanced or unchanged relative to the native protein or may be diminished by less than 50 and preferably less than 20 relative to the native protein. In a particular embodiment a variant of an SMT polypeptide is one capable of providing protection for example in an in vivo assay as described herein against a species from the complex i.e. and or

Variants may generally be identified by modifying one of the above polypeptide sequences and evaluating the reactivity of the modified polypeptide with antigen specific antibodies or antisera as described herein or by performing an in vivo protection assay as described herein.

Polypeptide variants will generally include those exhibiting at least about 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or more identity for example determined as described below to an SMT polypeptide disclosed herein.

In certain embodiments a variant will contain conservative substitutions. A conservative substitution is one in which an amino acid is substituted for another amino acid that has similar properties such that one skilled in the art of peptide chemistry would expect the secondary structure and hydropathic nature of the polypeptide to be substantially unchanged. Amino acid substitutions may generally be made on the basis of similarity in polarity charge solubility hydrophobicity hydrophilicity and or the amphipathic nature of the residues. For example negatively charged amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid positively charged amino acids include lysine and arginine and amino acids with uncharged polar head groups having similar hydrophilicity values include leucine isoleucine and valine glycine and alanine asparagine and glutamine and serine threonine phenylalanine and tyrosine. Other groups of amino acids that may represent conservative changes include 1 ala pro gly glu asp gln asn ser thr 2 cys ser tyr thr 3 val ile leu met ala phe 4 lys arg his and 5 phe tyr trp his. A variant may also or alternatively contain nonconservative changes. In a particular embodiment variant polypeptides differ from a native sequence by substitution deletion or addition of five amino acids or fewer. Variants may also or alternatively be modified by for example the deletion or addition of amino acids that have minimal influence on the immunogenicity secondary structure and hydropathic nature of the polypeptide.

Polynucleotides may comprise a native sequence i.e. an endogenous sequence that encodes a protein or a portion thereof or may comprise a variant or a biological or antigenic functional equivalent of such a sequence. Polynucleotide variants may contain one or more substitutions additions deletions and or insertions as further described below preferably such that the immunogenicity of the encoded polypeptide is not substantially diminished relative to a native tumor protein. The effect on the immunogenicity of the encoded polypeptide may generally be assessed as described herein.

When comparing polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences two sequences are said to be identical if the sequence of nucleotides or amino acids in the two sequences is the same when aligned for maximum correspondence as described below. Comparisons between two sequences are typically performed by comparing the sequences over a comparison window to identify and compare local regions of sequence similarity. A comparison window as used herein refers to a segment of at least about 20 contiguous positions usually 30 to about 75 40 to about 50 in which a sequence may be compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned.

Alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted using for example the Megalign program in the Lasergene suite of bioinformatics software DNASTAR Inc. Madison Wis. using default parameters. This program embodies several alignment schemes described in the following references Dayhoff M. O. 1978 A model of evolutionary change in proteins Matrices for detecting distant relationships. In Dayhoff M. O. ed. Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure National Biomedical Research Foundation Washington D.C. Vol. 5 Suppl. 3 pp. 345 358 Hein 1990 Unified Approach to Alignment and Phylogenes pp. 626 645 vol. 183 Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. Higgins and Sharp 1989 5 151 153 Myers E. W. and Muller W. 1988 4 11 17 Robinson E. D. 1971 11 105 Santou N. Nes M. 1987 4 406 425 Sneath and Sokal 1973 Freeman Press San Francisco Calif. Wilbur and Lipman 1983 80 726 730.

Alternatively alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by the local identity algorithm of Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 by the identity alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 443 by the search for similarity methods of Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. or by inspection.

One example of algorithms that are suitable for determining percent sequence identity and sequence similarity are the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms which are described in Altschul et al. 1977 25 3389 3402 and Altschul et al. 1990 215 403 410 respectively. BLAST and BLAST 2.0 can be used for example with the parameters described herein to determine percent sequence identity for the polynucleotides and polypeptides of the invention. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information. In one illustrative example cumulative scores can be calculated using for nucleotide sequences the parameters M reward score for a pair of matching residues always 0 and N penalty score for mismatching residues always 

Preferably the percentage of sequence identity is determined by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a window of comparison of at least 20 positions wherein the portion of the polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps of 20 percent or less usually 5 to 15 percent or 10 to 12 percent as compared to the reference sequences which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid bases or amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the reference sequence i.e. the window size and multiplying the results by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

Therefore the present invention encompasses polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences having substantial identity to the sequences disclosed herein for example those comprising at least 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 or higher sequence identity compared to a polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence of this invention using the methods described herein e.g. BLAST analysis using standard parameters as described below . One skilled in this art will recognize that these values can be appropriately adjusted to determine corresponding identity of proteins encoded by two nucleotide sequences by taking into account codon degeneracy amino acid similarity reading frame positioning and the like.

In additional embodiments the present invention provides isolated polynucleotides and polypeptides comprising various lengths of contiguous stretches of sequence identical to or complementary to one or more of the sequences disclosed herein. For example polynucleotides are provided by this invention that comprise at least about 15 20 30 40 50 75 100 150 200 300 400 500 or 1000 or more contiguous nucleotides of one or more of the sequences disclosed herein as well as all intermediate lengths there between. It will be readily understood that intermediate lengths in this context means any length between the quoted values such as 16 17 18 19 etc. 21 22 23 etc. 30 31 32 etc. 50 51 52 53 etc. 100 101 102 103 etc. 150 151 152 153 etc. including all integers through 200 500 500 1 000 and the like.

The polynucleotides of the present invention or fragments thereof regardless of the length of the coding sequence itself may be combined with other DNA sequences such as promoters polyadenylation signals additional restriction enzyme sites multiple cloning sites other coding segments and the like such that their overall length may vary considerably. It is therefore contemplated that a nucleic acid fragment of almost any length may be employed with the total length preferably being limited by the ease of preparation and use in the intended recombinant DNA protocol. For example illustrative DNA segments with total lengths of about 10 000 about 5000 about 3000 about 2 000 about 1 000 about 500 about 200 about 100 about 50 base pairs in length and the like including all intermediate lengths are contemplated to be useful in many implementations of this invention.

In other embodiments the present invention is directed to polynucleotides that are capable of hybridizing under moderately stringent conditions to a polynucleotide sequence provided herein or a fragment thereof or a complementary sequence thereof. Hybridization techniques are well known in the art of molecular biology. For purposes of illustration suitable moderately stringent conditions for testing the hybridization of a polynucleotide of this invention with other polynucleotides include prewashing in a solution of 5 SSC 0.5 SDS 1.0 mM EDTA pH 8.0 hybridizing at 50 C. 65 C. 5 SSC overnight followed by washing twice at 65 C. for 20 minutes with each of 2 0.5 and 0.2 SSC containing 0.1 SDS.

Moreover it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that as a result of the degeneracy of the genetic code there are many nucleotide sequences that encode a polypeptide as described herein. Some of these polynucleotides bear minimal homology to the nucleotide sequence of any native gene. Nonetheless polynucleotides that vary due to differences in codon usage are specifically contemplated by the present invention. Further alleles of the genes comprising the polynucleotide sequences provided herein are within the scope of the present invention. Alleles are endogenous genes that are altered as a result of one or more mutations such as deletions additions and or substitutions of nucleotides. The resulting mRNA and protein may but need not have an altered structure or function. Alleles may be identified using standard techniques such as hybridization amplification and or database sequence comparison .

In another aspect of the invention fusion polypeptides are provided that comprise at least an immunogenic portion of an SMT polypeptide and further comprising a heterologous fusion partner as well as polynucleotides encoding such fusion polypeptides. For example in one embodiment a fusion polypeptide comprises one or more immunogenic portions of an SMT polypeptide and one or more additional immunogenic sequences which are joined via a peptide linkage into a single amino acid chain. In another embodiment a fusion polypeptide may comprise multiple antigenic epitopes wherein at least one of the epitopes is from an SMT polypeptide. As used herein an epitope is a portion of an antigen that reacts with blood samples from infected individuals i.e. an epitope is specifically bound by one or more antibodies and or T cells present in such blood samples.

In another embodiment a heterologous fusion partner comprises a sequence that assists in providing T helper epitopes an immunological fusion partner preferably T helper epitopes recognized by humans or that assists in expressing the protein an expression enhancer at higher yields than the native recombinant protein. Certain preferred fusion partners include both immunological and expression enhancing fusion partners. Other fusion partners may be selected so as to increase the solubility of the protein or to enable the protein to be targeted to desired intracellular compartments. Still further fusion partners include affinity tags which facilitate purification of the protein.

Within a particular embodiment an immunological fusion partner comprises a sequence derived from protein D a surface protein of the gram negative bacterium B WO 91 18926 . For example one protein D derivative comprises approximately the first third of the protein e.g. the first N terminal 100 110 amino acids and a protein D derivative may be lipidated. Within certain embodiments the first 109 residues of a lipoprotein D fusion partner is included on the N terminus to provide the polypeptide with additional exogenous T cell epitopes and to increase the expression level in thus functioning as an expression enhancer . The lipid tail ensures optimal presentation of the antigen to antigen presenting cells. Other illustrative fusion partners include the non structural protein from influenzae virus NS1 hemaglutinin Typically the N terminal 81 amino acids are used although different fragments that include T helper epitopes may also be used.

In another particular embodiment an immunological fusion partner comprises an amino acid sequence derived from the protein known as LYTA or a portion thereof preferably a C terminal portion . LYTA is derived from which synthesizes an N acetyl L alanine amidase known as amidase LYTA encoded by the LytA gene 1986 43 265 292 . LYTA is an autolysin that specifically degrades certain bonds in the peptidoglycan backbone. The C terminal domain of the LYTA protein is responsible for the affinity to the choline or to some choline analogues such as DEAE. This property has been exploited for the development of C LYTA expressing plasmids useful for expression of fusion proteins. Purification of hybrid proteins containing the C LYTA fragment at the amino terminus has been described see 1992 10 795 798 . Within a particular embodiment a repeat portion of LYTA may be incorporated into a fusion protein. A repeat portion is found in the C terminal region starting at residue 178. A more particular repeat portion incorporates residues 188 305.

Fusion sequences may be joined directly i.e. with no intervening amino acids or may be joined by way of a linker sequence e.g. Gly Cys Gly that does not significantly diminish the immunogenic properties of the component polypeptides. The polypeptides forming the fusion protein are typically linked C terminus to N terminus although they can also be linked C terminus to C terminus N terminus to N terminus or N terminus to C terminus. The polypeptides of the fusion protein can be in any order. Fusion polypeptides or fusion proteins can also include conservatively modified variants polymorphic variants alleles mutants subsequences interspecies homologs and immunogenic fragments of the antigens that make up the fusion protein.

Fusion polypeptides may generally be prepared using standard techniques including recombinant technology chemical conjugation and the like. For example DNA sequences encoding the polypeptide components of a fusion may be assembled separately and ligated into an appropriate expression vector. The 3 end of the DNA sequence encoding one polypeptide component is ligated with or without a peptide linker to the 5 end of a DNA sequence encoding the second polypeptide component so that the reading frames of the sequences are in frame. This permits translation into a single fusion polypeptide that retains the biological activity of the component polypeptides.

A peptide linker sequence may be employed to separate the fusion components by a distance sufficient to ensure that each polypeptide folds into its desired secondary and or tertiary structures. Such a peptide linker sequence may be incorporated into the fusion polypeptide using standard techniques well known in the art. Suitable peptide linker sequences may be chosen for example based on one or more of the following factors 1 their ability to adopt a flexible extended conformation 2 their inability to adopt a secondary structure that could interact with functional epitopes on the first and second polypeptides and 3 the lack of hydrophobic or charged residues that might react with the polypeptide functional epitopes. Certain preferred peptide linker sequences contain Gly Asn and Ser residues. Other near neutral amino acids such as Thr and Ala may also be used in the linker sequence. Amino acid sequences which may be usefully employed as linkers include those disclosed in Maratea et al. 1985 40 39 46 Murphy et al. 1986 83 8258 8262 U.S. Pat. No. 4 935 233 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 751 180. The linker sequence may generally be from 1 to about 50 amino acids in length. Linker sequences are not required when the first and second polypeptides have non essential N terminal amino acid regions that can be used to separate the functional domains and prevent steric interference.

The ligated DNA sequences are operably linked to suitable transcriptional or translational regulatory elements. The regulatory elements responsible for expression of DNA are located only 5 to the DNA sequence encoding the first polypeptides. Similarly stop codons required to end translation and transcription termination signals are only present 3 to the DNA sequence encoding the second polypeptide.

In general polypeptides and fusion polypeptides as well as their encoding polynucleotides are isolated. An isolated polypeptide or polynucleotide is one that is removed from its original environment. For example a naturally occurring protein is isolated if it is separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system. Preferably such polypeptides are at least about 90 pure more preferably at least about 95 pure and most preferably at least about 99 pure. A polynucleotide is considered to be isolated if for example it is cloned into a vector that is not a part of the natural environment.

Regardless of the method of preparation the SMT polypeptides described herein are preferably immunogenic. In other words the polypeptides and immunogenic portions thereof are capable of eliciting an immune response in cultures of lymph node cells and or peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC isolated from presently or previously infected individuals. More specifically the antigens and immunogenic portions thereof have the ability to induce T cell proliferation and or to elicit a dominantly Th1 type cytokine response e.g. IL 2 IFN and or TNF production by T cells and or NK cells and or IL 12 production by monocytes macrophages and or B cells in cells isolated from presently or previously infected individuals. A infected individual may be afflicted with a form of leishmaniasis such as subclinical cutaneous mucosal or active visceral or may be asymptomatic. Such individuals may be identified using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Individuals with leishmaniasis may be identified based on clinical findings associated with at least one of the following isolation of parasite from lesions a positive skin test with lysate or a positive serological test. Asymptomatic individuals are infected individuals who have no signs or symptoms of the disease. Such individuals can be identified based on a positive serological test and or skin test with lysate.

The term PBMC which refers to a preparation of nucleated cells consisting primarily of lymphocytes and monocytes that are present in peripheral blood encompasses both mixtures of cells and preparations of one or more purified cell types. PBMC may be isolated by methods known to those in the art. For example PBMC may be isolated by density centrifugation through for example Ficoll Winthrop Laboratories New York . Lymph node cultures may generally be prepared by immunizing BALB c mice e.g. in the rear foot pad with promastigotes emulsified in complete Fre nd s adjuvant. The draining lymph nodes may be excised following immunization and T cells may be purified in an anti mouse Ig column to remove the B cells followed by a passage through a Sephadex G10 column to remove the macrophages. Similarly lymph node cells may be isolated from a human following biopsy or surgical removal of a lymph node.

The ability of a SMT polypeptide or a portion variant or fusion thereof to induce a response in PBMC or lymph node cell cultures may be evaluated for example by contacting the cells with the polypeptide and measuring a suitable response. In general the amount of polypeptide that is sufficient for the evaluation of about 2 10cells ranges from about 10 ng to about 100 g and preferably is about 1 10 g. The incubation of polypeptide with cells is typically performed at 37 C. for about 1 3 days. Following incubation with polypeptide the cells are assayed for an appropriate response. If the response is a proliferative response any of a variety of techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed. For example the cells may be exposed to a pulse of radioactive thymidine and the incorporation of label into cellular DNA measured. In general a polypeptide that results in at least a three fold increase in proliferation above background i.e. the proliferation observed for cells cultured without polypeptide is considered to be able to induce proliferation.

Alternatively the response to be measured may be the secretion of one or more cytokines such as interferon IFN interleukin 4 IL 4 interleukin 12 p70 and or p40 interleukin 2 IL 2 and or tumor necrosis factor TNF or the change in the level of mRNA encoding one or more specific cytokines. For example the secretion of interferon interleukin 2 tumor necrosis factor and or interleukin 12 is indicative of a Th1 response which is responsible for the protective effect against . Assays for any of the above cytokines may generally be performed using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA . Suitable antibodies for use in such assays may be obtained from a variety of sources such as Chemicon Temucula Calif. and PharMingen San Diego Calif. and may generally be used according to the manufacturer s instructions. The level of mRNA encoding one or more specific cytokines may be evaluated by for example amplification by polymerase chain reaction PCR . In general a polypeptide that is able to induce in a preparation of about 1 3 10cells the production of 30 pg mL of IL 12 IL 4 IFN TNF or IL 12 p40 or 10 pg mL of IL 12 p70 is considered able to stimulate production of a cytokine

Immunogenic portions of a SMT polypeptide may be prepared and evaluated using well known techniques such as those summarized in Paul Fundamental Immunology 3rd ed. 243 247 Raven Press 1993 and references cited therein. Such techniques include screening polypeptides derived from the native antigen for immunogenic properties using for example a representative techniques described herein.

In addition to recombinant polypeptide expression SMT polypeptides portions and variants may be generated by synthetic or recombinant means. Synthetic polypeptides having fewer than about 100 amino acids and generally fewer than about 50 amino acids may be generated using techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example such polypeptides may be synthesized using any of the commercially available solid phase techniques such as the Merrifield solid phase synthesis method where amino acids are sequentially added to a growing amino acid chain. See Merrifield 1963 85 2149 2146. Equipment for automated synthesis of polypeptides is commercially available from suppliers such as Perkin Elmer Applied BioSystems Division Foster City Calif. and may be operated according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Recombinant polypeptides containing portions and or variants of a native SMT polypeptide may be readily prepared from a DNA sequence encoding the antigen using well known and established techniques. For example supernatants from suitable host vector systems which secrete recombinant protein into culture media may be first concentrated using a commercially available filter. Following concentration the concentrate may be applied to a suitable purification matrix such as an affinity matrix or an ion exchange resin.

In general any of a variety of expression vectors known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed to express recombinant polypeptides of this invention. Expression may be achieved in any appropriate host cell that has been transformed or transfected with an expression vector containing a polynucleotide that encodes a recombinant polypeptide. Suitable host cells include prokaryotes yeast and higher eukaryotic cells. Preferably the host cells employed are yeast or a mammalian cell line such as COS or CHO. The DNA sequences expressed in this manner may encode naturally occurring antigens portions of naturally occurring antigens or other variants thereof. For example variants of a native antigen may generally be prepared using standard mutagenesis techniques such as oligonucleotide directed site specific mutagenesis and sections of the DNA sequence may be removed to permit preparation of truncated polypeptides.

In certain aspects the polypeptides polynucleotides portions variants fusion polypeptides etc. as described herein are incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions or vaccines. Pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise one or more polypeptides polynucleotides portions variants fusion polypeptides etc. as described herein in combination with a physiologically acceptable carrier. Vaccines also referred to as immunogenic compositions generally comprise one or more of the polypeptides polynucleotides portions variants fusion proteins etc. as described herein in combination with an immunostimulant such as an adjuvant.

An immunostimulant may be any substance that enhances or potentiates an immune response antibody and or cell mediated to an exogenous antigen. Examples of immunostimulants include adjuvants biodegradable microspheres e.g. polylactic galactide and liposomes into which the compound is incorporated see e.g. Fullerton U.S. Pat. No. 4 235 877 . Vaccine preparation is generally described in for example Powell Newman eds. Vaccine Design the subunit and adjuvant approach 1995 .

Any of a variety of immunostimulants may be employed in the vaccines of this invention. For example an adjuvant may be included. Many adjuvants contain a substance designed to protect the antigen from rapid catabolism such as aluminum hydroxide or mineral oil and a stimulator of immune responses such as lipid A natural or synthetic or species or derived proteins. Suitable adjuvants are commercially available as for example Freund s Incomplete Adjuvant and Complete Adjuvant Difco Laboratories Detroit Mich. Merck Adjuvant 65 Merck and Company Inc. Rahway N.J. AS 2 and derivatives thereof GlaxoSmithKline Beecham Philadelphia Pa. CWS TDM Leif aluminum salts such as aluminum hydroxide gel alum or aluminum phosphate salts of calcium iron or zinc an insoluble suspension of acylated tyrosine acylated sugars cationically or anionically derivatized polysaccharides polyphosphazenes biodegradable microspheres monophosphoryl lipid A and quil A. Cytokines such as GM CSF or interleukin 2 7 or 12 may also be used as adjuvants.

Other illustrative adjuvants useful in the context of the invention include Toll like receptor agonists such as TLR7 agonists TLR7 8 agonists and the like. Still other illustrative adjuvants include imiquimod gardiquimod resiquimod and related compounds.

Certain preferred vaccines employ adjuvant systems designed to induce an immune response predominantly of the Th1 type. High levels of Th1 type cytokines e.g. IFN TNF IL 2 and IL 12 tend to favor the induction of cell mediated immune responses to an administered antigen. In contrast high levels of Th2 type cytokines e.g. IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 and IL 10 tend to favor the induction of humoral immune responses. Following application of a vaccine as provided herein a patient will support an immune response that includes Th1 and Th2 type responses. Within a preferred embodiment in which a response is predominantly Th1 type the level of Th1 type cytokines will increase to a greater extent than the level of Th2 type cytokines. The levels of these cytokines may be readily assessed using standard assays. For a review of the families of cytokines see Mossman and Coffman 1989 7 145 173.

Certain adjuvants for use in eliciting a predominantly Th1 type response include for example a combination of monophosphoryl lipid A preferably 3 de O acylated monophosphoryl lipid A 3D MPL adjuvant together with an aluminum salt U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 436 727 4 877 611 4 866 034 and 4 912 094 . CpG containing oligonucleotides in which the CpG dinucleotide is unmethylated also induce a predominantly Th1 response. Such oligonucleotides are well known and are described for example in WO 96 02555 WO 99 33488 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 008 200 and 5 856 462. Immunostimulatory DNA sequences are also described for example by Sato et al. 1996 273 352. Another illustrative adjuvant comprises a saponin such as Quil A or derivatives thereof including QS21 and QS7 Aquila Biopharmaceuticals Inc. Framingham Mass. Escin Digitonin or or saponins Other illustrative formulations include more than one saponin in the adjuvant combinations of the present invention for example combinations of at least two of the following group comprising QS21 QS7 Quil A escin or digitonin.

In a particular embodiment the adjuvant system includes the combination of a monophosphoryl lipid A and a saponin derivative such as the combination of QS21 and 3D MPL adjuvant as described in WO 94 00153 or a less reactogenic composition where the QS21 is quenched with cholesterol as described in WO 96 33739. Other formulations comprise an oil in water emulsion and tocopherol. Another adjuvant formulation employing QS21 3D MPL adjuvant and tocopherol in an oil in water emulsion is described in WO 95 17210.

Another enhanced adjuvant system involves the combination of a CpG containing oligonucleotide and a saponin derivative as disclosed in WO 00 09159.

In certain preferred embodiments the adjuvant used in the present invention is a glucopyranosyl lipid A GLA adjuvant as described in pending U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20080131466 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Other illustrative adjuvants include Montanide ISA 720 Seppic France SAF Chiron Calif. United States ISCOMS CSL MF 59 Chiron the SBAS series of adjuvants e.g. SBAS 2 AS2 AS2 SBAS 4 or SBAS6 available from SmithKline Beecham Rixensart Belgium Detox RC 529 Corixa Hamilton Mont. and other aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4 phosphates AGPs such as those described in pending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 08 853 826 and 09 074 720 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and polyoxyethylene ether adjuvants such as those described in WO 99 52549A1.

Compositions of the invention may also or alternatively comprise T cells specific for a SMT antigen. Such cells may generally be prepared in vitro or ex vivo using standard procedures. For example T cells may be isolated from bone marrow peripheral blood or a fraction of bone marrow or peripheral blood of a patient. Alternatively T cells may be derived from related or unrelated humans non human mammals cell lines or cultures.

T cells may be stimulated with a polypeptide of the invention polynucleotide encoding such a polypeptide and or an antigen presenting cell APC that expresses such a polypeptide. Such stimulation is performed under conditions and for a time sufficient to permit the generation of T cells that are specific for the polypeptide. Preferably the polypeptide or polynucleotide is present within a delivery vehicle such as a microsphere to facilitate the generation of specific T cells.

T cells are considered to be specific for a polypeptide of the invention if the T cells specifically proliferate secrete cytokines or kill target cells coated with the polypeptide or expressing a gene encoding the polypeptide. T cell specificity may be evaluated using any of a variety of standard techniques. For example within a chromium release assay or proliferation assay a stimulation index of more than two fold increase in lysis and or proliferation compared to negative controls indicates T cell specificity. Such assays may be performed for example as described in Chen et al. 1994 54 1065 1070 . Alternatively detection of the proliferation of T cells may be accomplished by a variety of known techniques. For example T cell proliferation can be detected by measuring an increased rate of DNA synthesis e.g. by pulse labeling cultures of T cells with tritiated thymidine and measuring the amount of tritiated thymidine incorporated into DNA . Contact with a polypeptide of the invention 100 ng ml 100 n ml preferably 200 ng ml 25 n ml for 3 7 days should result in at least a two fold increase in proliferation of the T cells. Contact as described above for 2 3 hours should result in activation of the T cells as measured using standard cytokine assays in which a two fold increase in the level of cytokine release e.g. TNF or IFN is indicative of T cell activation see Coligan et al. 1998 vol. 1 . T cells that have been activated in response to a polypeptide polynucleotide or polypeptide expressing APC may be CD4 and or CD8 . Protein specific T cells may be expanded using standard techniques. Within preferred embodiments the T cells are derived from a patient a related donor or an unrelated donor and are administered to the patient following stimulation and expansion.

In the compositions of the invention formulation of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and carrier solutions is well known to those of skill in the art as is the development of suitable dosing and treatment regimens for using the particular compositions described herein in a variety of treatment regimens including e.g. oral parenteral intravenous intranasal and intramuscular administration and formulation.

In certain applications the compositions disclosed herein may be delivered via oral administration to a subject. As such these compositions may be formulated with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier or they may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsule or they may be compressed into tablets or they may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet.

In certain circumstances it will be desirable to deliver the compositions disclosed herein parenterally intravenously intramuscularly or even intraperitoneally as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 543 158 U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 515 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 363 each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Solutions of the active compounds as free base or pharmacologically acceptable salts may be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions may also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions U.S. Pat. No. 5 466 468 specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and or vegetable oils. Proper fluidity may be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be facilitated by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

For parenteral administration in an aqueous solution for example the solution should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In this connection a sterile aqueous medium that can be employed will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. For example one dosage may be dissolved in 1 ml of isotonic NaCl solution and either added to 1000 ml of hypodermoclysis fluid or injected at the proposed site of infusion see e.g. 15th Edition pp. 1035 1038 and 1570 1580 . Some variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being treated. The person responsible for administration will in any event determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. Moreover for human administration preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity and the general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with the various other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

The compositions disclosed herein may be formulated in a neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the protein and which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric mandelic and the like. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine histidine procaine and the like. Upon formulation solutions will be administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. The formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as injectable solutions drug release capsules and the like.

As used herein carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media vehicles coatings diluents antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents buffers carrier solutions suspensions colloids and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce an allergic or similar untoward reaction when administered to a human. The preparation of an aqueous composition that contains a protein as an active ingredient is well understood in the art. Typically such compositions are prepared as injectables either as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for solution in or suspension in liquid prior to injection can also be prepared. The preparation can also be emulsified.

In certain embodiments the compositions may be delivered by intranasal sprays inhalation and or other aerosol delivery vehicles. Methods for delivering genes polynucleotides and peptide compositions directly to the lungs via nasal aerosol sprays has been described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 756 353 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 212 each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Likewise the delivery of drugs using intranasal microparticle resins Takenaga et al. 1998 and lysophosphatidyl glycerol compounds U.S. Pat. No. 5 725 871 specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety are also well known in the pharmaceutical arts. Likewise transmucosal drug delivery in the form of a polytetrafluoroetheylene support matrix is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 045 specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

In certain embodiments the delivery may occur by use of liposomes nanocapsules microparticles microspheres lipid particles vesicles and the like for the introduction of the compositions of the present invention into suitable host cells. In particular the compositions of the present invention may be formulated for delivery either encapsulated in a lipid particle a liposome a vesicle a nanosphere a nanoparticle or the like. The formulation and use of such delivery vehicles can be carried out using known and conventional techniques.

A pharmaceutical or immunogenic composition may alternatively contain an immunostimulant and a DNA molecule encoding one or more of the polypeptides or fusion proteins described above such that a desired polypeptide is generated in situ. In such compositions the DNA may be present within any of a variety of delivery systems known to those of ordinary skill in the art including nucleic acid expression systems bacteria and viral expression systems. Appropriate nucleic acid expression systems contain the necessary DNA sequences for expression in the patient such as a suitable promoter and terminating signal . Bacterial delivery systems involve the administration of a bacterium such as Calmette Guerrin that expresses an immunogenic portion of the polypeptide on its cell surface. In a particular embodiment the DNA may be introduced using a viral expression system e.g. vaccinia or other pox virus retrovirus or adenovirus which may involve the use of a non pathogenic defective replication competent virus. Techniques for incorporating DNA into such expression systems are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The DNA may also be naked as described for example in Ulmer et al. 1993 259 1745 1749 and reviewed by Cohen 1993 259 1691 1692. The uptake of naked DNA may be increased by coating the DNA onto biodegradable beads which are efficiently transported into the cells.

The pharmaceutical compositions and vaccines of the invention may be used for example to induce protective immunity against in a patient such as a human or a dog to prevent leishmaniasis or diminish its severity. The compositions and vaccines may also be used to stimulate an immune response which may be cellular and or humoral in a patient for treating an individual already infected. In one embodiment for infected patients the immune responses generated include a preferential Th1 immune response i.e. a response characterized by the production of the cytokines interleukin 1 interleukin 2 interleukin 12 and or interferon as well as tumor necrosis factor . In another embodiment for uninfected patients the immune response involves production of interleukin 12 and or interleukin 2 or the stimulation of gamma delta T cells. In either category of patient the response stimulated may include IL 12 production. Such responses may also be elicited in biological samples of PBMC or components thereof derived from infected or uninfected individuals. As noted above assays for any of the above cytokines as well as other known cytokines may generally be performed using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA .

Appropriate doses and methods of administration for these purposes can be readily determined by a skilled artisan using available knowledge in the art and or routine techniques. Routes and frequency of administration as well as dosage for the above aspects of the present invention will vary from individual to individual and may parallel those currently being used in immunization against other infections including protozoan viral and bacterial infections. For example in one embodiment between 1 and 12 doses are administered over a 1 year period. Booster vaccinations may be given periodically thereafter as needed or desired. Of course alternate protocols may be appropriate for individual patients. In a particular embodiment a suitable dose is an amount of polypeptide or DNA that when administered as described above is capable of eliciting an immune response in an immunized patient sufficient to protect the patient from leishmaniasis for at least 1 2 years. In general the amount of polypeptide present in a dose or produced in situ by the DNA in a dose ranges from about 100 ng to about 1 mg per kg of host typically from about 10 g to about 100 g. Suitable dose sizes will vary with the size of the patient but will typically range from about 0.1 mL to about 5 mL.

The SMT compositions fusion polypeptides and polynucleotides are also useful as diagnostic reagents for detecting and or monitoring infection in a patient. For example the compositions fusion polypeptides and polynucleotides of the invention may be used in in vitro and in vivo assays for detecting humoral antibodies or cell mediated immunity against for diagnosis of infection monitoring of disease progression or test of cure evaluation.

The diagnostic methods and kits preferably employ an SMT polypeptide portion variant or the like optionally in combination with one or more other antigens. In certain embodiments it will be preferred to use a multiple antigens as described herein e.g. three or more four or more five or more six or more etc. in a diagnostic method of the invention. The antigens may be used in essentially any assay format desired e.g. as individual antigens assayed separately as multiple antigens assayed simultaneously as antigens immobilized on a solid support such as an array or the like.

In one embodiment there are provided diagnostic kits for detecting infection in a biological sample comprising a a polypeptide comprising at least an immunogenic portion of an SMT polypeptide described herein and b a detection reagent.

In another embodiment methods are provided for detecting the presence of infection in a biological sample comprising a contacting a biological sample with a monoclonal antibody that binds to an SMT polypeptide described herein and b detecting in the biological sample the presence of proteins that bind to the monoclonal antibody.

There are a variety of assay formats known to those of ordinary skill in the art for using purified antigen or fusion polypeptide to detect antibodies in a sample. See e.g. Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1988. In one embodiment the assay involves the use of polypeptide immobilized on a solid support to bind to and remove the antibody from the sample. The bound antibody may then be detected using a detection reagent that binds to the antibody peptide complex and contains a detectable reporter group. Suitable detection reagents include antibodies that bind to the antibody polypeptide complex and free polypeptide labeled with a reporter group e.g. in a semi competitive assay . Alternatively a competitive assay may be utilized in which an antibody that binds to the polypeptide is labeled with a reporter group and allowed to bind to the immobilized antigen after incubation of the antigen with the sample. The extent to which components of the sample inhibit the binding of the labeled antibody to the polypeptide is indicative of the reactivity of the sample with the immobilized polypeptide.

The solid support may be any solid material known to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the antigen may be attached. For example the solid support may be a test well in a microtiter plate or a nitrocellulose or other suitable membrane. Alternatively the support may be a bead or disc such as glass fiberglass latex or a plastic material such as polystyrene or polyvinylchloride. The support may also be a magnetic particle or a fiber optic sensor such as those disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 359 681.

The polypeptide may be bound to the solid support using any of a variety of techniques known and available in the art. The term bound refers to both noncovalent association such as adsorption and covalent attachment which may be a direct linkage between the antigen and functional groups on the support or may be a linkage by way of a cross linking agent . Binding by adsorption to a well in a microtiter plate or to a membrane is preferred. In such cases adsorption may be achieved by contacting the polypeptide in a suitable buffer with the solid support for a suitable amount of time.

In certain embodiments the diagnostic assay employed is an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA . This assay may be performed by first contacting a polypeptide antigen that has been immobilized on a solid support commonly the well of a microtiter plate with the sample such that antibodies to the polypeptide within the sample are allowed to bind to the immobilized polypeptide. Unbound sample is then removed from the immobilized polypeptide and a detection reagent capable of binding to the immobilized antibody polypeptide complex is added. The amount of detection reagent that remains bound to the solid support is then determined using a method appropriate for the specific detection reagent.

Once the polypeptide is immobilized on the support the remaining protein binding sites on the support are typically blocked. Any suitable blocking agent known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as bovine serum albumin or Tween 20 Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. . The immobilized polypeptide is then incubated with the sample and antibody if present in the sample is allowed to bind to the antigen. The sample may be diluted with a suitable diluent such as phosphate buffered saline PBS prior to incubation. In general an appropriate contact time i.e. incubation time is that period of time that is sufficient to detect the presence of antibody to within an infected sample. Preferably the contact time is sufficient to achieve a level of binding that is at least 95 of that achieved at equilibrium between bound and unbound antibody. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the time necessary to achieve equilibrium may be readily determined by assaying the level of binding that occurs over a period of time. At room temperature an incubation time of about 30 minutes is generally sufficient.

Unbound sample may then be removed by washing the solid support with an appropriate buffer such as PBS containing 0.1 Tween 20 . Detection reagent may then be added to the solid support. An appropriate detection reagent is any compound that binds to the immobilized antibody polypeptide complex and that can be detected by any of a variety of means known to those in the art. The detection reagent generally contains a binding agent such as for example Protein A Protein G immunoglobulin lectin or free antigen conjugated to a reporter group. Illustrative reporter groups include enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase substrates cofactors inhibitors dyes radionuclides luminescent groups fluorescent groups and biotin. The conjugation of binding agent to reporter group may be achieved using standard methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The detection reagent is then incubated with the immobilized antibody polypeptide complex for an amount of time sufficient to detect the bound antibody. An appropriate amount of time may generally be determined from the manufacturer s instructions or by assaying the level of binding that occurs over a period of time. Unbound detection reagent is then removed and bound detection reagent is detected using the reporter group. The method employed for detecting the reporter group depends upon the nature of the reporter group. For radioactive groups scintillation counting or autoradiographic methods are generally appropriate. Spectroscopic methods may be used to detect dyes luminescent groups and fluorescent groups. Biotin may be detected using avidin coupled to a different reporter group commonly a radioactive or fluorescent group or an enzyme . Enzyme reporter groups may generally be detected by the addition of substrate generally for a specific period of time followed by spectroscopic or other analysis of the reaction products.

To determine the presence or absence of antibodies in a sample the signal detected from the reporter group that remains bound to the solid support is generally compared to a signal that corresponds to a predetermined cut off value. This cut off value is preferably the average mean signal obtained when the immobilized antigen is incubated with samples from an uninfected patient. In general a sample generating a signal that is three standard deviations above the mean is considered positive for and infection. In another embodiment the cut off value is determined using a Receiver Operator Curve according to the method of Sackett et al. p. 106 7 Little Brown and Co. 1985 . Briefly in this embodiment the cut off value may be determined from a plot of pairs of true positive rates i.e. sensitivity and false positive rates 100 specificity that correspond to each possible cut off value for the diagnostic test result. The cut off value on the plot that is the closest to the upper left hand corner i.e. the value that encloses the largest area is the most accurate cut off value and a sample generating a signal that is higher than the cut off value determined by this method may be considered positive. Alternatively the cut off value may be shifted to the left along the plot to minimize the false positive rate or to the right to minimize the false negative rate. In general a sample generating a signal that is higher than the cut off value determined by this method is considered positive for infection.

In another embodiment a diagnostic assay may be performed in a flow through or strip test format wherein the antigen or fusion polypeptide is immobilized on a membrane such as nitrocellulose. In the flow through test antibodies within the sample bind to the immobilized polypeptide as the sample passes through the membrane. A detection reagent e.g. protein A colloidal gold then binds to the antibody polypeptide complex as the solution containing the detection reagent flows through the membrane. The detection of bound detection reagent may then be performed as described above. In the strip test format one end of the membrane to which polypeptide is bound is immersed in a solution containing the sample. The sample migrates along the membrane through a region containing detection reagent and to the area of immobilized polypeptide. Concentration of detection reagent at the polypeptide indicates the presence of antibodies in the sample. Such tests can typically be performed with a very small amount e.g. one drop of patient serum or blood.

In yet another embodiment methods are provided for detecting in a biological sample using antibodies which may be polyclonal or monoclonal and or T cells specific for one or more antigens fusion polypeptides and or immunogenic portions of the invention.

All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims. The following examples are provided by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of noncritical parameters that could be changed or modified to yield essentially similar results.

Female C57BL 6 mice were purchased from Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. and were maintained in specific pathogen free conditions. Eight to twelve week old mice at the beginning of experiments were used. Promastigotes of MHOM BR 82 BA 2 were cultured in MEM Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with 0.5 MEM essential amino acids solution Invitrogen 0.1 mM MEM non essential amino acids Invitrogen 1 mM sodium pyruvate 25 mM HEPES 8.3 mM glucose 26 mM sodium bicarbonate 1 g ml para amino benzoic acid 50 g ml gentamicin 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum and 6 g ml hemin. Promastigotes of and MHOM IL 80 Friedlin were kindly provided from Dr. David Sacks National Institutes of Health and cultured in Medium 199 as previously described Belkaid et al. 2002 168 3992 4000 . Promastigotes in a late log or stationary phase were used for infections or antigen preparations.

An open reading frame of SMT was amplified by PCR using genomic DNA with a set of primers 5 CAA TTA CAT ATG TCC GCC GGT GGC CGT G SEQ ID NO 9 3 CAA TTA AAG CTT CTA AGC CTG CTT GGA CGG SEQ ID NO 10 . The amplified PCR product was inserted in frame with a 6 His tag into the vector pET 28a EMD Biosciences San Diego Calif. and the insert was sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence of SMT was compared with those of SMTs from Accession No. AAR92098 CAJ09196 EAN81270 and AAC26626 which were obtained from the NCBI database www dot ncbi dot nlm dot nih dot gov using the MegAlign software package DNASTAR Inc. Madison Wis. by the Clustal method.

The pET 28a vector cloned for SMT was transformed into Rosetta. Expression of the recombinant protein was induced by cultivation with 1M isopropyl D thiogalactoside. rSMT was then purified as 6 His tagged proteins using Ni NTA agarose Qiagen Inc. Valencia Calif. . Concentration of the purified protein was measured by BCA protein assay Pierce Biotechnology Inc. Rockford Ill. . Purity of the proteins was assessed by Coomassie blue staining following SDS PAGE. An endotoxin level of the protein was measured by a lysate test Cambrex Corporation East Rutherford N.J. and shown to be below 10 EU mg of protein.

Mice were immunized with 10 g of rSMT plus 20 g of MPL SE adjuvant GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Rixensant Belgium in a volume of 0.1 ml. Another group of mice was administrated with 10 g of rSMT alone. Control groups received either saline or MPL SE adjuvant alone. The mice were immunized subcutaneously three times at three weeks intervals in the right hind footpad and at the base of the tail.

Samples for immunoblotting were prepared by suspending promastigotes in SDS sample buffer followed by boiling for 5 min. Samples containing 5 10promastigotes were separated by SDS PAGE and blotted on polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. Polyclonal Ab obtained from mice immunized with rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant was used for western blotting. Sera from na ve mice were used at the same dilution as a control. The membranes were then probed with HRP conjugated goat anti mouse IgG. Rockland Immunochemicals Inc. Gilbertsville Pa. . Development was performed using Chemiluminescent Super Sensitive HRP Substrate Kit BioFX Laboratories Owings Mills Md. .

rSMT was diluted in ELISA coating buffer and 96 well plates were coated with 200 ng well of antigen followed by blocking with phosphate buffered saline containing 0.05 Tween 20 and 1 bovine serum albumin. Next the plates were incubated with Brazilian VL patient sera n 21 as well as sera from Chagas disease patients n 10 endemic healthy donors n 10 and non endemic healthy donors n 6 at 1 200 dilution. For total IgG HRP conjugated anti human IgG Rockland Immunochemicals was used as the secondary Ab. For IgG subclass assay HRP conjugated anti human IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4 Invitrogen were used. The plates were developed with tetramethylbenzidine peroxidase substrate Kirkegaard Perry Laboratories Gaithersburg Md. and read by a microplate reader at 450 nm 570 nm reference .

The ELISA protocol was similar to that described above but different primary and secondary antibodies were used. Three mice per group were bled one week after the last immunization for Ab ELISA. Mouse serum samples were diluted to 1 100 and applied to the plates in fivefold serial dilutions. Then the plates were incubated with HRP conjugated goat anti mouse IgG1 or IgG2a Southern Biotech Birmingham Ala. . The plates were developed with the substrate and read by a microplate reader at a 450 nm wavelength. Endpoint titers were calculated with the GraphPad Prism software using an OD value of 0.1 as a cutoff.

Spleens were collected from three mice per group two weeks after the last immunization. 2 10splenocytes in complete RPMI medium RPMI supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum 100 U ml of penicillin and 100 g ml of streptomycin per well were plated in a 96 well plate and then stimulated with 3 g ml of con A 100 g ml of soluble lysate antigen LiSLA 10 g ml of rSMT or medium alone. Culture supernatants were collected after 72 hrs cultivation and tested the levels of IFN and IL 10 by sandwich ELISA.

Spleens were collected from three mice per group two weeks after the last immunization. 1 10splenocytes in 100 l of complete RPMI per well were plated in a round bottom 96 well plate and then stimulated with PMA ionomycin 10 g ml of rSMT or medium alone. Co stimulation antibodies anti CD28 eBioscience San Diego Calif. and anti CD49d eBioscience were added to the media for a final concentration of 1 g ml in the well during stimulation. After 2 hours incubation at 37 C. brefeldin A GolgiPlug BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. was added to the wells and the incubation resumed for an additional 12 hrs at 37 C. Cells were blocked with anti CD16 32 eBioscience 1 50 in 50 ul and then stained with AlexaFluor 700 anti CD3 eBioscience PerCP anti CD4 BD Biosciences PE anti CD8 BD Biosciences . Then cells were fixed using the Cytofix Cytoperm kit BD Biosciences . Cells were again blocked with anti CD16 32 and then intracellularly stained with FITC anti TNF eBioscience Pacific Blue anti IL 2 eBioscience and PE Cy7 anti IFN BD Biosciences . Cells were analyzed with a LSRII FACS machine BD Biosciences and the DIVA software.

Seven mice per group were challenged with three weeks after the last immunization. 5 10promastigotes were suspended in Hank s balanced salt solution and injected i.v. into the tail vein of the mouse. At four weeks after the challenge mice were sacrificed to collect spleens and livers to determine the numbers of parasites in these tissues by limiting dilution assay. The tissues were homogenated with glass grinders and the suspensions were twofold serially diluted with complete HOMEM in 96 well microplates with NNN blood agar. Each well was examined for the presence of parasites ten days after plating and the numbers of parasites in the original tissues were calculated based on dilution factor of the last positive well.

An open reading frame of SMT was cloned from total DNA by PCR amplification using specific primers. The size was 1 062 by and the sequence was 100 matched with the one on the database LinJ36.4930 1 062 bp 353 amino acids 39.8 kDa obtained from GeneDB www dot genedb dot org . A sequence analysis using the NCBI database www dot ncbi dot nlm dot nih dot gov revealed that SMT has 99.6 96.6 81 and 66.0 identity to SMTs from and respectively .

rSMT was expressed in and purified . An apparent molecular mass of the protein was as predicted 42 kDa . Mouse polyclonal Ab raised against rSMT was used for detection of native SMT in species by western blot analysis. Anti SMT Ab detected a band with apparent molecular sizes of 38 kDa which is in a same range of the predicted size in all the species tested i.e. L infantum and whereas the intensity of the bands was different . Those bands were not detected when sera from na ve mice were used as the primary Ab.

To determine antigenicity of SMT in humans examined the prevalence of antibodies to rSMT and rK39 in VL patients by ELISA using sera from 21 Brazilian VL patients. rK39 is a serodiagnostic antigen and the presence of antibodies to the antigen indicates active VL Burns et al. 1993 90 775779 . 19 of the 21 showed strong Ab responses to rK39 and those responses were specific in VL patients . Those sera showed moderate to strong reactivity to rSMT and these Ab responses seemed to be specific in VL patients whereas one non endemic healthy donor showed moderate response . rSMT was recognized by Sudanese VL patients infected with data not shown suggesting that SMT is antigenic in both and infected patients.

The sera were further examined to determine their IgG subclasses. IgG1 IgG2 and IgG3 responses to rK39 were detected in VL patient sera and IgG1 was the predominant subclass . IgG1 response was predominant to rSMT as well despite the titers were lower than those to rK39 . Some IgG2 responses were observed in VL patient sera to rSMT but that was not VL specific as health donors showed IgG2 response to this antigen. Little IgG4 responses were detected to either rK39 or rSMT.

Since the rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant vaccine induced protection against VL in mice we then evaluated immune responses induced by the vaccine. Mice immunized with rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant showed robust humoral responses to rSMT characterized by high levels of antigen specific IgG1 and IgG2a . In contrast immunization with rSMT alone resulted in IgG1 dominant Ab responses. Mice injected with saline or adjuvant alone showed no Ab responses to rSMT.

To investigate cell mediated responses brought about by the immunization cytokine production by spleen cells in stimulation with rSMT or LiSLA were measured. Spleen cells from mice immunized with rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant produced a high level of IFN in response to rSMT . These mice also responded to LiSLA stimulation albeit the magnitude of IFN production was much lower than that observed with rSMT stimulation. In contrast spleen cells from mice immunized with rSMT alone produced only a low level of IFN in response to rSMT. Compared with administration of SMT alone IFN IL 10 ratio was drastically improved when MPL SE adjuvant was co injected with the antigen . No detectable cytokine production was found in saline or adjuvant alone groups in stimulation with rSMT or LiSLA.

To further investigate cellular responses induced by rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant vaccination flow cytometric analysis of Th1 type cytokine production by CD4 and CD8 T cells was performed. Spleen cells which were harvested after in vitro cultivation with or without SMT were gated based on forward and side scatter first then CD3 expression . CD4 or CD8 cells were further gated from the CD3 population. Those populations were analyzed the frequency of cells producing TNF IL 2 or IFN .

FACS data show that antigen specific CD4 and CD8 cells were induced by rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant vaccination . CD4 cells producing TNF IL 2 or IFN in stimulation with rSMT were found only in that group of mice. Antigen specific CD8 cells were also found in mice administrated rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant and the frequency of those cells producing TNF or IFN was high.

When CD4 and CD8 cells were further divided into seven distinct populations based on expression patterns of TNF IL 2 or IFN at a single cell level it was revealed that many of antigen specific T cells producing multiple cytokines were induced by rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant . There were both CD4 and CD8 cells producing only TNF in stimulation with rSMT whereas cells expressing only IFN were little. Most of antigen specific CD4 T cells producing IFN were co expressing TNF or both TNF and IL 2. Also many of the antigen specific CD8 T cells were producing both TNF and IFN .

To evaluate the protective efficacy of rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant vaccination against VL immunized mice were challenged by intravenous injection of 5 10promastigotes. During infection C57BL 6 mice showed peak parasite burden in livers around four weeks of the infection data not shown . Thus we chose four weeks as a time point for determining parasite numbers in spleens and livers of challenged mice. Significant reduction of parasites was seen in mice immunized with rSMT plus MPL SE adjuvant compared with those in saline or adjuvant alone groups . The immunized mice showed 43 fold and 55 fold reduction in the number of parasites in spleens 111 fold and 117 fold reduction in livers compared with saline and adjuvant alone groups respectively. There was no significant difference observed between saline and adjuvant alone groups. This protection in SMT immunized mice was repeatedly observed with similar magnitude.

Immunization with SMT significantly protected mice from a causative agent of VL in humans and dogs and this prophylactic effect was substantially better than with any previously reported vaccine candidate. There have been a limited number of vaccine candidates which have been shown to induce protection against VL in animal models Basu et al. 2005 174 7160 7171 Ghosh et al. 2001 20 59 66 and Rafati et al. 2006 24 2169 2175 . With most candidates the levels of protection observed have been minimal often only a two fold reduction in parasite burdens. In mice parasite numbers in liver show a peak around four weeks post infection and decline thereafter. In contrast persistent infection of parasites is found in spleen. A higher degree of protection by SMT immunization was achieved by the present invention compared with previously reported antigens and the protection was seen in both spleen and liver.

Further SMT is expressed by both and the two causative agents of VL as well as a causative agent of CL and a causative agent of both CL and disseminated leishmaniasis DL . This SMT expression pattern suggests that the antigen may also be useful in other forms of leishmaniasis. Furthermore the lack of homology with mammalian proteins is expected to offer safety advantages when vaccinating with SMT. SMT is also found in other pathogens including parasites and fungi such as spp. Zhou et al. 2006 281 6290 6296 Jensen Pergakes et al. 1998 42 1160 1167 and Kaneshiro et al. 2001 Suppl 144S 146S . Thus SMT also represents a vaccine candidate for treating conditions other than VL.

BALB c mice Charles River Laboratories were maintained in specific pathogen free conditions. Mice were eight to twelve weeks old at the beginning of experiments. Promastigotes of MHOM IL 80 Friedlin were grown at 25 C. in medium 199 supplemented with 20 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum 100 U of penicillin per ml 100 g of streptomycin per ml 2 mM L glutamine 0.1 mM adenine 40 mM HEPES 0.25 mg of hemin per ml and 0.31 mg of 6 biotin per ml. Promastigotes in a late log or stationary phase were used for infections or antigen preparations.

Groups of five mice were immunized. The first group was immunized with saline as a negative control. The second group was immunized with 10 g of rSMT plus 20 g of MPL SE adjuvant GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Rixensant Belgium in a volume of 0.1 ml. As a challenge 2 000 promastigotes were suspended in 10 l of phosphate buffered saline and injected intradermally into both the left and right ears. Mice were infected 3 weeks after completion of the immunization protocol.

The progress of infection was monitored every week for eight weeks by measuring the diameter of the induration of the ear lesion with a metric caliper .

At eight weeks after the challenge ear tissue was collected to determine the numbers of parasites by limiting dilution assay. The tissue was homogenated with grinders and the suspensions were twofold serially diluted with complete 199 medium in 96 well microplates with NNN blood agar. Each well was examined for the presence of parasites ten days after plating and the numbers of parasites in the original tissues were calculated based on dilution factor of the last positive well .

The results of this experiment demonstrated that mice immunized with rSMT were significantly protected against a causative agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis. These results suggest that immunization with rSMT can be effective for protection against the various pathogens that are the causative agents of visceral cutaneous mucosal and disseminated leishmaniasis.

The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments.

These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly the claims are not limited by the disclosure.

