---

title: Method and system for network backbone analysis
abstract: A method and system of an embodiment may include receiving network path information identifying one or more network paths, receiving network traffic information specifying a network ingress and a network egress for the network traffic on a first network path of the one or more identified network paths and the network traffic information specifying one or more attributes of the network traffic, emulating failure of one or more components of the first network path, determining a second network path between the specified network ingress and the specified network egress to accommodate the network traffic from the first network path, and providing information associated with the second network path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08395989&OS=08395989&RS=08395989
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08395989
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080423
---
Network users require increasing amounts of bandwidth. Corporate users government users and other large entities may require reserved or dedicated bandwidth to connect multiple locations. Network service providers network owners and network operators may provide network services offering private networks to such users. Private networks may require a significant amount of bandwidth. Users of private backbones may require a high amount of availability to ensure connectivity between two or more locations. Determining the availability of network services in the event of a failure of one or more components may be difficult. Analysis may focus on core network connectivity and may not provide an end to end picture of the impact of a failure of one or more components. Network service providers may maintain under utilized and expensive large capacity network connectivity to attempt to ensure availability for one or more users.

An exemplary embodiment provides a private network backbone analysis system. The private network backbone analysis system may present a model depicting the impact of a failure of one or more components of a private network backbone.

Referring to a private network analysis system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment is illustrated. System illustrates an exemplary system for analyzing a private network backbone. It is noted that System is a simplified view of a network and may include additional elements that are not depicted. As illustrated network elements and may be communicatively coupled by network links and . Network elements and may be communicatively coupled to other devices such as data storage and computer .

Network elements and may transmit and or receive data via network links and . The data may be transmitted and or received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example data may be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocols TCP IP or other protocols and or systems suitable for transmitting and receiving data. Data may be transmitted and or received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network connections or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network elements and may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g. Network elements and may also be communicatively coupled via protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Network elements and may be one or more routers switches hubs and or other network connectivity devices. Network elements and may include one or more processors not shown for recording transmitting receiving and or storing data. Although network elements and are each depicted as single network connectivity devices it should be appreciated that the contents of network elements and may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of network connectivity devices and may be connected to one or more data storage systems such as data storage . Furthermore network elements and may be local remote or a combination thereof to each other. Network elements and may be different portions of a network such as edge nodes core nodes customer premises equipment a hubbing node an edge device and an integrated access device or other network connectivity devices.

Network elements and may provide Application Programming Interfaces APIs interface tables Remote Procedure Calls RPCs web services Extensible Markup Language XML based interfaces Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based interfaces Common Request Broker Architecture CORBA and other interfaces for sending or receiving network information.

Network links and may be one or more network connections utilized to provide private network connectivity to one or more users. For example network links and may be network connections utilizing Ethernet Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS based Ethernet Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Synchronous Optical Networking SONET Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line ADSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line SDSL Fiber To The Premises FTTP cable modem broadband leased line Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN dial up satellite wireless networking broadband over power lines or other network technologies. In some embodiments network links and may be logically combined using link aggregation such as Ethernet bonding channel bonding trunking port trunking and or an IEEE 802.3ad compliant technique.

Data storage may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to network elements and . Data storage may utilize a Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks RAID tape disk a Storage Area Network SAN or other computer accessible storage. Data storage may store network path information identifying one or more network links between one or more network elements. Network path information may include edge network equipment information core network equipment information customer premises equipment information network routing information a hop count for a network path bandwidth information associated with a network path congestion information associated with a network path latency information associated with a network path and or quality of service information associated with a network path.

Data storage may store network traffic information specifying a network ingress and a network egress for network traffic on a private network backbone on a network path. Network traffic information may also specify one or more attributes of the network traffic. Network traffic information may include minimum required bandwidth required for the network traffic quality of service metrics for the traffic an ingress point of network traffic an egress point of network traffic customer information associated with network traffic and other data.

Data storage may store data received from user input a network management system a network provisioning system a management information base a network services ordering system a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface. In one or more embodiments data storage may be a management information base or storage associated with a network management system.

Computer may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a server or other computer capable of performing private network backbone analysis. Computer may receive data from user input a network management system a network provisioning system a management information base a network services ordering system a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface. Computer may query other systems and or local or remote storage such as data storage to obtain network information.

Computer may model a network which may provide one or more private network backbones to one or more users. Computer may utilize network path information to create one or more models of network topology including nodes links resources and or other network infrastructure. Computer may model network topology attributes such as the bandwidth of a link the bandwidth of a node the bandwidth information associated with a network path congestion information associated with a network path latency information associated with a network path and or quality of service information associated with a network path. A model may be stored in memory or in other storage such as data storage . Computer may additionally model user traffic on a network. User traffic information in a model may include information for a network path of a private network such as an ingress point an egress point a minimum bandwidth one or more quality of service metrics and or other network traffic metrics. Computer may include multiple network paths in a model including primary and secondary network paths from a user traffic origination point or network ingress to a user traffic destination point or network egress.

Computer may provide a user interface to a model. A user interface may enable a user to input data edit data or view data related to network traffic and or one or more network paths. Computer may provide an interface for a user to test one or more failure scenarios or perform network analysis of a modeled network and or user traffic on a modeled network. For example a user may utilize a model created or maintained by computer to emulate failure of one or more network components. A user may specify a link a node or other network component for failure in a model and may utilize the model to assess the impact of the one or more failures. Computer may identify one or more alternate network paths with bandwidth and or other network characteristics suitable to accommodate network traffic on a network path containing a failed component. Computer may be capable of iterative emulations of failed components and or identification of one or more alternate paths. For example network element may be an originating edge node of user traffic logically connected by network links and and network element to network element . Network links and may be links carrying user traffic. Network element may be a core network node and network element may be a destination network node. A user may input a command instructing computer to emulate the failure of network link in the model. Computer may emulate the failure of network link and may determine the availability of one or more alternate network paths to accommodate traffic from failed network link . Computer may analyze one or more links nodes or other network components which may provide connectivity between an originating point of the failed network path and a destination point of the failed network path. Computer may produce information related to one or more alternate network paths avoiding the simulated failed component. For example computer may produce a report a listing a display a text message an email or otherwise provide a listing of available paths. Available paths may be listed in order of suitability to accommodate network traffic which may be determined by available bandwidth latency or other network metrics. Available paths may also be listed in other orders such as alphabetically by node name and or link name. In some embodiments only network paths with sufficient bandwidth and or adequate network characteristics may be listed. For example network link network element and network link may be listed as an alternate path if the available bandwidth quality of service latency and or other attributes of this path accommodates the minimum level required for traffic formerly on failed network link to network element and network link . Other network paths from the origination node network element to the destination node network element may be presented or listed. Network element via network link network element and network link to network element may be listed. This route from originating network element to destination network element may be preferred over a route via network element . A route via network element may accommodate the required bandwidth but may add additional latency and thus may be less preferable.

In another example a failure of network element which may represent a core node in a model may be simulated. A failure of a component in a network model which handles traffic for multiple network paths and or multiple links may determine the availability of alternate network paths for one or more of networks utilizing the failed component. For example the failure of network element may affect network links and . For network traffic originating at network element utilizing network links and with a destination of network element computer may provide a route utilizing network element and network links and if bandwidth and or other characteristics meet network traffic requirements. This may utilize network element instead of failed network element . One or more links such as network links and may be routed individually. Computer may utilize a locking mechanism on data or records utilized to manage bandwidth of available network routes in a model. This may ensure that bandwidth is properly reserved. For example this may ensure that multiple processes each routing a traffic from a different failed network path do not improperly assign network traffic to a route which is not capable of accommodating the traffic.

In some embodiments if a model is not able to find sufficient network resources to accommodate traffic from a failed route an error may occur. The error may provide a name of a failed component a failed network path and or other error details. An error message may provide a listing of one or more network paths affected by a failed component such as a node or a link which may be sorted by origination destination traffic characteristics associated customer information or other information. Error messages may be provided as displays on computer as reports printouts emails text messages and other electronic communications.

In some embodiments a error message may provide a listing of available paths which were not adequate to accommodate network traffic from a failed path. For example if a failed path required 20 gigabit per second bandwidth a listing in an error report may identify one or more network paths with less bandwidth. In one or more embodiments a user may choose to model the effects of transitioning to a network path with less bandwidth with a lower quality of service a higher latency or other network attributes different from the failed network path.

In one or more embodiments computer may identify multiple paths in a model which cumulatively may accommodate traffic from a single failed network path. For example computer may model network link as a failed 20 Gbps network link utilized for traffic from an origination point at network element to a destination point at network element . Network links and may be 10 Gbps network links. Computer may determine that a single network link is not available to accommodate 20 Gbps of network traffic. Computer may model splitting the traffic into two 10 Gbps network paths utilizing network links and .

In one or more embodiments computer may model network information of a theoretical or planned network based on inputs received without requiring the existence of the modeled actual network. This may enable network planning budgeting and or other analysis. Computer may enable the modeling of an existing network and may allow the addition of theoretical or planned links nodes network traffic and or other network information.

A model created by computer may enable actions including the splitting of traffic among multiple network paths the routing of traffic on a network path with reduced bandwidth and or the dropping or failure of network traffic depending on preferences of a user of a model requirements of network traffic or other conditions.

The various components of system as shown in may be further duplicated combined and or integrated to support various applications and platforms. Additional elements may also be implemented in the systems described above to support various applications.

Referring to a network backbone analysis module for analyzing a private network is depicted in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. As illustrated network backbone analysis module may contain one or more components including network infrastructure input module customer requirements input module network component failure simulation module error handling module and reporting module . Network backbone analysis module may create manage and utilize one or more network models which may utilize a server a desktop a laptop in a database memory or another electronic storage medium. Network backbone analysis module may enable the display and manipulation of one or more network models via one or more user interfaces. Network backbone analysis module may enable the creation and manipulation of model preferences model settings and or other model attributes.

Network infrastructure input module may receive data such as network path information and network infrastructure information. Network path information may identify one or more network paths between one or more network elements. Network path information may include edge network equipment information core network equipment information customer premises equipment information network routing information a hop count for a network path bandwidth information associated with a network path congestion information associated with a network path latency information associated with a network path and or quality of service information associated with a network path.

Customer requirements input module may receive data such as network traffic information and customer and or user information. Network traffic information may specify a network ingress a network egress and a network path for network traffic of a private network backbone. Network traffic information may also specify one or more attributes of the network traffic. Network traffic information may include minimum required bandwidth required for the network traffic quality of service metrics for the traffic an ingress point of network traffic an egress point of network traffic customer information associated with network traffic and other data.

Network component failure simulation module may enable a user of a model to emulate the failure of one or more network components independently serially and or concurrently. Network component failure simulation module may accept user input specifying one or more components to fail and may analyze and provide feedback on the impact of the failure of the one or more failed components. Network component failure simulation module may provide alternative network paths to a network path containing a failed component enabling a user to identify redundancy. Network component failure simulation module may accept inputs and or analyze customer or network traffic requirements for network traffic utilizing a failed component when identifying alternative network paths. A user may utilize network component failure simulation module to analyze the feasibility of rerouting multiple private backbones. For example if network link is a 20 Gbps link which fails network component failure simulation module may identify network links as 20 Gbps link of which only 10 Gbps may currently be utilized. Network link may be an unutilized 10 Gbps link. Network component failure simulation module may determine the feasibility of transferring network traffic from network link to in order to enable network link to accommodate the 20 Gbps of network traffic from failed network link . Network component failure simulation module may also enable a portion of network traffic from a network path containing a failed component to be routed over an alternate network path with less bandwidth. Network component failure simulation module may enable network traffic to be split and routed on multiple network paths to accommodate a network outage.

Error handling module may respond to one or more errors created by a failure of a network component. Error handling module may enable error trapping of an error and one or more error handling actions. In some embodiments error handling module may provide information about a failed network component such as a link or a node. Error handling module may provide information about one or more network paths or links utilizing a failed network component network traffic utilizing one or more network paths affected by a failed component and or users associated with network traffic on affected network paths.

Reporting module may receive transmit analyze and report on network model data. Reporting module may receive near real time data or may access stored data. Reports and or analysis may be standard reports scheduled as part of a network modeling or testing process or may be customized reports and or analysis requested by a user. Reports may be provided and delivered in a variety of formats including email web electronic message printout and other formats. Reports may include information on network infrastructure network traffic users associated with network traffic and or errors.

Network backbone analysis module may contain fewer or greater numbers of modules. Modules may be combined. Modules may be local or remote to one another and may be implemented on different computing platforms which may be communicatively coupled. Modules may be implemented in software and or hardware.

At block the method may determine user traffic requirements. Data may be input by a user specifying a number of network paths providing private network backbones or other connectivity to one or more users. User traffic requirements may specify origination points or network ingresses for user traffic and destination points or network egresses for network traffic. User traffic requirements may specify one or more network parameters required or desired for network connectivity such as a minimum bandwidth a quality of service metric a latency metric or other network connectivity measurement metrics. User traffic requirements may specify a primary routing for one or more private backbones and a plurality of secondary routings for the one or more private backbones. Routings may include node names link names bandwidth and other characteristics. Routing information may include priority or ranking information indicating a preference for a routing. In some embodiments network traffic data may be queried from one or more databases provided by one or more feeds from external systems or queried using an API to an external system. For example data may be received from a network ordering or provisioning system which may provide information related to user traffic to be modeled. This may enable provisioning and or capacity planning determinations to be made once an order has been received. It may enable planning for network redundancy once user traffic has been provisioned on a network.

At block network infrastructure including available network paths may be determined. Data may be input regarding core nodes edge nodes customer premises equipment links ports and other network infrastructure data. Data may also be received via an interface queried from one or more databases or accessed via one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

At block one or more network models may be created utilizing data on network infrastructure available network paths user traffic requirements and other network data. A model may provide one or more user interfaces and or APIs to access the model.

At block one or more simulated failed network components may be specified. A user may utilize an API or a user interface to identify a component of a network path such as a link or a node to emulate as failed in a network model.

At block network path link constraints may be determined. The bandwidth constraints or other network connectivity constraints may be determined for one or more links of a network path.

At block the overall network path constraints may be determined for one or more network paths. Method may utilize the model to determine the bandwidth and other constraints for one or more network paths. The bandwidth and other constraints for the components of a network path such as one or more nodes one or more links between nodes ports customer premises equipment and other infrastructure utilized by a path may be determined. A maximum bandwidth quality of service latency and or other metrics for one or more links or components of a network path may be determined.

At block it may be determined whether traffic from a failed network path is capable of being routed on an alternate network path. If network traffic from a failed network path may be routed on an alternate network path the method may continue at block . If network traffic from a failed network path may be not routed on an alternate network path the method may continue at block .

At block the method may determine whether network traffic from a failed network path may be split and routed on multiple alternate network paths. If multiple alternate network paths are acceptable the method may continue at block . If multiple alternate network paths are not acceptable the method may continue at block .

At block the method may determine whether routing a portion of network traffic on one or more alternate network paths is acceptable. If routing a portion of network traffic from a failed network route is acceptable the method may continue at block . If partial routing of network traffic is not acceptable the method may continue at block .

At block the network traffic from a failed network path may be routed on one or more alternate network paths.

At block one or more errors resulting from failed network components may be handled. Error notifications and reporting may be provided. Notifications and reporting may identify one or more failed network components failed network paths affected customers and available network resources.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

