---

title: Method, system, and computer program product for providing an intelligent event notification system
abstract: A computer program product for providing an intelligent event notification system includes instructions for implementing a method. The method includes selecting a type of event notification for an event. Determining the type of event notification is based in part on information elements associated with the event. The method also includes determining at least one optimal alert system to receive an event notification corresponding to the type of event notification selected. The determination is based in part on information elements associated with the event. The method further includes associating an alert trigger with the event notification and transmitting the event notification to the at least one optimal alert system upon activation of the alert trigger. The event notification type includes a supplemental information notification specifying activities to be performed in advance of, or in preparation for, the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07595717&OS=07595717&RS=07595717
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07595717
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080521
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 334 filed Apr. 4 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 400 229 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to time management systems and in particular to a method system and storage medium for providing an intelligent event notification system.

An issue of ever increasing importance in modern society is time management. Tools software hardware and even class instruction abound that promote and teach time management skills. However few systems exist that integrate various time management technologies for easing the burdens relating to scheduling functions. For example multiple time management processes may be relied upon by individuals on a daily basis e.g. alarm clocks calendaring programs wake up call services etc. . With the growing number of time management tools on the market it oftentimes becomes cumbersome to manage these tools in an efficient manner. While technologies today offer some assistance in organizing various time management tools devices e.g. synchronization of a calendar on a PDA with a personal computer calendar there continues to be a need for ways to efficiently manage time that alleviate the burdens associated with utilizing multiple time management tools.

Exemplary embodiments include a computer program product for providing intelligent event notification services. The computer program product includes instructions for performing a method. The method includes selecting a type of event notification for an event. Determining the type of event for selection is based in part on information elements associated with the event. The method also includes determining at least one optimal alert system to receive an event notification corresponding to the type of event notification selected. The determination is based in part on information elements associated with the event. The method further includes associating an alert trigger with the event notification and transmitting the event notification to the at least one optimal alert system upon activation of the alert trigger. The event notification type includes a supplemental information notification specifying activities to be performed in advance of or in preparation for the event.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the preferred embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments a method system and computer program product for providing intelligent event notification services is presented. The intelligent event notification services provide a means for centralizing and automating event scheduling and notification processes across multiple devices and multi media components. An event notification engine associated with the services provides a heuristic approach to processing calendar events that may be combined with programmable event triggers in processing calendar events resulting in an optimized method and means for transmitting event notifications.

Turning now to a system upon which the intelligent event notification services may be implemented in exemplary embodiments will now be described. The system of includes a computer system executing an event notification engine . Computer system may also include various calendaring or messaging applications e.g. IBM s Lotus Notes calendar application Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Exchange etc. . These applications enable a user of computer system to enter edit events or activities for subsequent recall. A sample calendar event created by a user is shown in . Events generated may include e.g. appointments meetings trips teleconferences videoconferences seminars obligatory activities or other suitable information. The event notification engine may communicate with calendaring messaging applications via e.g. corresponding application programming interfaces APIs associated therewith.

The event notification engine may comprise one or more applications for implementing the intelligent event notification processes described herein. Additionally event notification engine may include a user interface UI for enabling individuals to perform activities such as configuring the event notification engine to identify and manage devices also referred to herein as alert systems subject to receiving event notifications. Event notifications may comprise various types of pre event reminders or information such as a wake up call a recurring reminder presented at specified time intervals and supplemental information. Supplemental information may include pre event activities that are related to the event e.g. making reservations confirming an event a car rental dry cleaning pick up or personal matters such as canceling newspaper delivery.

Event notification engine may also include a timer function for managing event notifications including providing an alert trigger that causes execution of the event notification. There are various types of alert formats for selection such as audio tones video images mechanical vibration music light emission multi media etc. The timer function of the event notification engine may be implemented via a clocking device timestamp instrument or other similar item. Event notification types alerts systems alert triggers and alert formats are collectively referred to herein as notification elements.

Event notification engine is in communication with a master event file that contains event records which in turn store specific event information for events generated by a user of computer system via e.g. a calendaring application. For example event information may include information such as an event descriptor e.g. meeting appointment etc. an event location an event time etc. Master event file may be stored internally in memory associated with the computer system or may be remotely accessible to computer system . Event notification engine manages the event records as will be described further herein. A sample master event file is shown in .

A user of computer device may utilize multiple electronic devices alert systems for which the intelligent event notification system processes are desired. As shown in these alert systems include a pager cell phone an Internet Protocol enabled device e.g. text pager Instant Messaging device email accounts etc. an alarm clock watch and a personal digital assistant PDA . Other devices may be included also such as an MP3 player.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments the intelligent event notification system processes for these alert systems may be facilitated via a variety of input output devices a representative sampling of same shown in the system of for illustrative purposes. These input output devices may include a modem e.g. a standard telephone modem a digital subscriber line DSL or cable network service component a localized radio frequency RF transmitter device and a localized radio frequency RF receiver device . The computer system may be operatively coupled to one or more of these input output devices as shown in . In exemplary embodiments the event notification engine acts as an interface to the input output devices and corresponding alert systems. The DSL or cable network service component provides the computer device with access to the Internet via standard telephone lines or cable lines respectively. Localized RF receiver device receives over the air signals from one or both of computer device and PDA . For example the event notification engine reads event information from PDA via localized RF receiver device and synchronizes the event information with calendar applications and other calendar implemented devices e.g. .

While the event notification engine is shown and described in as residing on computer system it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the event notification engine may be implemented via other means such as a PDA laptop business PC or other suitable device. The system configuration represented in is provided for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting in scope.

Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing the intelligent event notification services in accordance with exemplary embodiments will now be described. The event notification engine receives electronic calendaring information relating to an event e.g. from one of calendaring applications at step . This may be accomplished by monitoring the calendar applications and requesting event information e.g. event descriptor location time from the calendaring applications through e.g. their corresponding APIs. The monitoring may occur continuously or may be performed at periodic intervals of time. Alternatively the functionality of the intelligent event notification system may be incorporated directly into calendaring applications or the operating system of computer system .

In exemplary embodiments the intelligent event notification system may be configured to receive user programmed notification elements relating to events. As described above notification elements may include e.g. an event notification type which alert systems or applications should receive an event notification and may include configuring the event notification system to enable it to identify and communicate with the particular alert system a time in which the event notification should be relayed via e.g. alert trigger or execution of the event notification a manner of notification or alert format and any other suitable notification items. The alert format may depend upon the capabilities of the particular alert system. For example the alert format for an alarm clock may include options such as chimes buzzer music radio or pre selected item nature sounds etc. Likewise the alert format for a cell phone may be a selected ring tone song mechanical vibration flashing light etc.

A sample selection of notification elements are shown and described in the user interface screen of . If the intelligent event notification system is incorporated into a calendaring application operating system the user interface screen of may be generated via e.g. an option of user interface screen of . Selection of this option results in a new window of . Alternatively the user may access the intelligent event notification system processes via the user interface associated with event notification engine see generally . Likewise a user interface screen such as that depicted in may be presented to the user. Multiple alerts or event notifications may be programmed by a user via user interface screen at step . Using the example meeting provided in suppose the user desires to program a wake up call event notification type prior to this 8 00 meeting. The user may then select PERSONAL ALARM CLOCK from the drop down window shown in . A second window may then be presented to the user. The user may then select from a list of alert formats from second window . Next the user selects an alert time time trigger from drop down box . The wake up call and other notification event types programmed by the user may be referred to herein as pre event notifications. This is because e.g. the wake up call is not the subject of the event i.e. the subject being the meeting but rather relates to a notification that indirectly relates to the event. For example the user may routinely enter an event notification as a reminder to pick up dry cleaning prior to regularly occurring meetings. The former event is referred to as a pre event as it indirectly relates to the main or primary event the meeting .

If the user desires to program an additional event notification the user selects NEXT ALERT otherwise the SUBMIT option is selected to complete the process. A second event notification relating to the first event notification may be configured by the user. For example using the meeting event created in suppose the user desires a reminder of the meeting ten minutes prior to the 8 00 meeting start time. The user selects NEXT ALERT and selects e.g. cell phone from drop down window . In the drop down box the user would enter or select 07 50 00.

Returning now to the event information received from step and information optionally received from step is stored in an event record in master event file at step . Master event file stores event records for events generated via any calendaring application. A sample master event file is shown in greater detail in . The master event file of includes event records n. Each event record corresponds to an entry in a calendaring application. Each event record is comprised of fields for containing event information elements and event notification elements . Fields for event information elements may include an event identifier for distinguishing each event recorded in master event file a source e.g. the calendaring application from which the event was generated an event descriptor e.g. the nature or subject of the event such as an appointment meeting trip etc. a date e.g. single date date range etc. a time associated with the event start time time range etc. location e.g. room number building street city state country etc. and any other suitable event information. The time field may be automatically adjusted for differing time zones via e.g. the location information provided in the location field.

Event notification element values may be set by default via the engine by optimal determination step user programmed or a combination of the above. Fields for event notification elements may include alert system identifier e.g. identification of the alert system to be notified alert time e.g. time of event notification execution alert format e.g. chimes buzzer ring tone music etc. and other suitable notification elements desired.

The event information from step is replicated to any other calendaring applications associated with user at step . Replication or synchronization may be accomplished using any suitable synchronization method and tools as desired.

At step the event notification engine determines optimal notification element values for the event. As described above a heuristic approach may be utilized for evaluating and determining optimal notification element values. Further the heuristic approach may be combined with user programmed notification element values in determining the optimal notification element values. An exemplary process for determining optimal notification element values is described further in .

At step the results of the determination performed in step are stored in the event record. The event notification engine monitors the event records in the master event file via the timing function at step . At step it is determined whether the timing function has been triggered i.e. the event record s alert time field value indicates that an event notification is due for execution . If so the event notification engine generates and transmits the event notification to one or more alert systems specified in the event record at step . The process returns to step whereby the event notification engine continues on with the next event record if applicable.

Turning now to an exemplary process for determining optimal notification element values step will now be described. The event notification engine reads an event record to be processed from master event file at step . The event notification engine checks the notification elements to determine if the user has provided any programmed notification element values from step at step . If so these values are applied to the event notification at step . Subsequent to applying the programmed notification element values to the event notification step or alternatively if no user programmed notification element values exist in the event record step the event notification engine searches the master event file e.g. for event records that are similar to the event record to be processed at step . A match occurs if the search results reveal that at least one event record contains event information and optionally event notification elements that is also found in the event record to be processed. For example a recurring monthly meeting may be reflected in multiple event records that provide the same location information e.g. field of across each of the event records.

If a match occurs at step the notification element values found in the matching event record are copied to the processed event record. For example suppose a matching event record indicated that a reminder ten minutes prior to a meeting is desired and that a specified cell phone is the preferred method of notification. It may be inferred by the event notification engine that the user prefers this type and form of reminder. Accordingly these notification element values are copied from the matching event record to the processed event record with the exception of those notification element values that have been already selected programmed by the user. If any notification element fields in the matching event record are empty the event notification engine may provide default values or alternatively search for another closest matching event record for these missing elements at step .

If on the other hand there are no similar event records found the event notification engine may apply default notification element values to the event notification at step . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other methods of determining optimal notification element values may be utilized by the intelligent event notification system and that the processes recited in are provided for illustration.

The event notification engine may includes additional rules for determining an optimal alert means e.g. pager phone alarm clock PDA computer etc. . This may be accomplished for example by logic that determines which device is geographically closest to the individual and whether it is capable of receiving and communicating an alert. For example computer device is turned on and the individual is logged into the computer. This information may be used by event notification engine in determining whether it is best to send an alert via phone or email. Time factors may also be considered in determining which device should be alerted e.g. send alerts to alarm clock if the alerts are due for transmittal before 7 00 a.m. . Additionally calendar entries in one of applications may be used in this determination using the location field. For example if the location of an event is an office the event notification engine may determine that a cell phone or office email address is the most appropriate form of communicating the alert. Thus the intelligent event notification services facilitate combined user preferences with learned behavior and historical patterns to determine the most appropriate forms and means of alerts such that individual users need not actively and repeatedly enter in settings for each and every activity or event.

As described above embodiments can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

