---

title: Nosecone bolt access and aerodynamic leakage baffle
abstract: A device includes a resilient member having a first end for blocking an access hole and a second end for attachment to a support surface, an opening extending through the resilient member and located between the first and second ends, and a bolt connection location positioned at the second end of the resilient member. The first end of the resilient member blocks the access hole and can be deflected to provide tool access to the bolt connection location through the first opening.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08292592&OS=08292592&RS=08292592
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08292592
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080402
---
The present invention was developed at least in part with government funding under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to nosecone assemblies for gas turbine engines and more particularly to baffles for use with gas turbine engine nosecone assemblies.

Gas turbine engines such as those for aerospace applications generally include a nosecone. The nosecone can be static i.e. non rotating or rotating. Nosecones are frequently attached to supporting structures of the gas turbine engine by way of bolts in order to facilitate removal of the nosecone for repair and maintenance. However it is desirable to not have fasteners extending into a flowpath at the nosecone.

The present invention provides an alternative configuration for a nosecone bolt access and aerodynamic leakage baffle.

A device includes a resilient member having a first end for blocking an access hole and a second end for attachment to a support surface an opening extending through the resilient member and located between the first and second ends and a bolt connection location positioned at the second end of the resilient member. The first end of the resilient member blocks the access hole and can be deflected to provide tool access to the bolt connection location through the first opening.

The elongate extension extends from the flange portion and can be integrally formed with the flange portion . The elongate extension defines opposed lateral edges A and B and a radiused distal end . The distal end is located opposite the flange portion . The elongate access opening extends through both the elongate extension and through the flange portion and is positioned approximately midway between the opposed lateral edges A and B of the elongate extension . The elongate access opening has a width sufficient to accommodate tooling e.g. a wrench inserted therethrough. A bolt access seal portion of the baffle is defined between the distal end and the elongate access opening in a curved portion of the elongate extension .

The pair of scallops A and B are located along the lateral edges A and B respectively of the elongate extension and can be posited adjacent to the elongate opening . In the illustrated embodiment both of the scallops A and B have an identical radiused configuration and are located in a non curved portion of the elongate extension . A width of the elongate extension is reduced between the scallops A and B. The scallops A and B are configured to help control a stiffness of the elongate extension of the baffle as explained further below. The particular configuration of the scallops A and B can be selected to provide suitable stiffness for a given application.

The fastener openings allow rivets or other suitable fasteners e.g. screws bolts to secure the baffle to a nosecone at the flange portion . The fastener openings can be arranged with two openings on either side of the access opening . In further embodiments the number of fastener openings and their arrangement can vary as desired for particular applications. A bolt is positioned at a bolt connection location on the flange portion between the two pairs of the fastener openings . The bolt can extend through the access opening at the flange portion in other words the bolt connection location can be defined as a portion of the access opening .

The body defines an aerodynamic shape of the nosecone which can vary as desired for particular applications. An exterior surface of the body is a boundary surface for a flowpath of air entering an annular inlet of a gas turbine engine to which the nosecone is attached. The mounting flanges are located at an aft circumferential edge of the body and extend radially inward toward an interior cavity defined by the body . A bolt hole is provided through each mounting flange in order to provide attachment points for removably securing the nosecone to an engine with bolts or other suitable fasteners. The mounting flanges can be formed integrally with the body of the nosecone . In the illustrated embodiment seven circumferentially spaced mounting flanges are provided though the number and arrangement of the mounting flanges can vary in further embodiments.

The openings are provided through the body of the nosecone at locations circumferentially or azimuthally aligned with each of the bolt holes in the flanges . More particularly the openings are aligned i.e. coaxial with a central axis of each corresponding bolt hole a number of exemplary axes are shown in for illustrative purposes . The openings provide access through the body of the nosecone for tooling e.g. a wrench to tighten or loosen bolts through the bolt holes for attaching or removing the nosecone relative to an engine.

The baffle is connected to one of the flanges by the rivets such that the elongate extension of the baffle is positioned along an interior surface of the cavity defined by the body of the nosecone . The elongate extension and the flange portion of the baffle meet adjacent to the interior surface of the nosecone . The elongate extension of the baffle includes at least a portion near the distal end with a curvature that corresponds to an aerodynamic curvature of the body of the nosecone and more particularly to a curvature of the interior surface of the body of the nosecone . Stiffness of the baffle keeps the elongate extension in contact with the interior surface of the body of the nosecone by default.

The bolt access seal portion on the elongate extension of the baffle is positioned at the corresponding opening in the body of the nosecone . The bolt access seal portion is configured to have a surface area at least as large as an exposed area of the opening . In this way the bolt access seal portion covers and aerodynamically seals the opening to create a positive and negative pressure seal in order to limit the entry of air and ice into the cavity of the nosecone during engine operation. In order to maintain aerodynamic sealing of the opening the baffle should have sufficient stiffness which is determined as a function of baffle materials and baffle geometry including configuration of the scallops A and B . In the event of liberation of a component within the cavity of the nosecone such as liberation of a bolt coverage and sealing of the opening by the bolt access seal portion of the baffle also helps prevent such a liberated object from exiting the cavity and being ingested by the engine thereby reducing a risk of domestic object damage DOD to engine components. In other words the baffle helps protect the engine by trapping liberated objects within the cavity of the nosecone until the liberated objects can be removed by maintenance personnel.

Although only one baffle is shown in one baffle would generally be provided for each opening in the body of the nosecone .

It should be recognized that the present invention provides numerous advantages. For instance the elongate access opening of the baffle allows tool access to a cavity within a nosecone with relatively little deflection of the baffle which allows the baffle to have a relatively high stiffness to provide sealing of openings in the nosecone during engine operation and also to enhance baffle lifespan by limiting fatigue. Stiffness of the baffle can be especially important when utilized with a static i.e. non rotating nosecone where there is no centrifugal action to help maintain sealing of nosecone openings.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance the dimensions and proportions of the baffle can vary as desired for particular applications.

