---

title: Substituted benzimidazoles and their use for inducing apoptosis
abstract: 

wherein R represents aryl or heteroaryl, X is a bond, a carbonyl group, a derivative of a carbonyl group, an ethylene group or an ethylenecarbonyl group, Ris optionally substituted amino or hydroxy, and the substituents Rto Rhave the meanings given in the specification, to methods of synthesis of such compounds, to pharmaceutical compositions containing compounds of formula (I), to intermediates, to the use of a compounds of formula (I) as a medicament and for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases, and to methods of treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases using such compounds of formula (I) or of pharmaceutical compositions containing same.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07951957&OS=07951957&RS=07951957
owner: Basilea Pharmaceutica AG
number: 07951957
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20080716
---
This Application is a Divisional Application of application Ser. No. 11 501 648 filed Aug. 9 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 423 157 which is a CIP of U.S. Ser. No. 10 587 675 filed Jul. 27 2006 now abandoned which was filed as a 35 U.S.C. 371 National Application with respect to PCT EP2005 050586 filed on Feb. 10 2005 which claims as priority European Patent Application No. 04405082.1 filed on Feb. 11 2004.

The invention relates to novel substituted benzimidazoles processes for the preparation thereof pharmaceutical compositions containing same the use thereof optionally in combination with one or more other pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy of neoplastic diseases and autoimmune diseases and a method for the treatment of such a diseases.

Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in humans. Although a variety of drugs against neoplastic diseases have been developed and techniques are available such as surgery and radiation therapy there is still a need for alternative and improved methods of treatment of neoplastic diseases.

Autoimmune diseases are associated with abnormal lymphoproliferation as a result of defects in the termination of lymphocyte activation and growth. Often such diseases are associated with inflammation like rheumatoid arthritis insulin dependent diabetes mellitus multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus and the like. The treatment of such diseases is focused on anti inflammatory and immunosuppressive drugs which in numerous cases show severe side effects. Hence there is a need for alternative drugs with a new mode of action showing less side effects.

Apoptosis is a term used to describe a series of cellular events which occur to bring about programmed cell death. There are various apoptotic pathways some of which have been characterized whereas others remain to be elucidated. If the balance between cell division and apoptosis is disturbed life threatening diseases including cancer autoimmune disorders neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases may occur.

In recent years it has become evident that programmed cell death apoptosis is as important to the health of a multicellular organism as cell division. By repeated cell division and differentiation throughout development or tissue repair surplus or even harmful cells are generated. In order to maintain tissue homeostasis these cells have to be removed or killed. The delicate interplay between cell growth and apoptosis in an organism is mirrored in the complex molecular balance that determines whether an individual cell undergoes division arrests in the cell cycle or commits to programmed cell death.

Dysregulation of cell proliferation or lack of appropriate cell death has wide ranging clinical implications. A number of diseases associated with such dysregulation involve hyperproliferation inflammation tissue remodeling and repair. Familiar indications in this category include cancers restenosis neointimal hyperplasia angiogenesis endometriosis lymphoproliferative disorders transplantation related pathologies graft rejection polyposis loss of neural function in the case of tissue remodeling and the like. Such cells may lose the normal regulatory control of cell division and may also fail to undergo appropriate cell death.

As apoptosis is inhibited or delayed in most types of proliferative neoplastic diseases induction of apoptosis is an option for treatment of cancer especially in cancer types which show resistance to classic chemotherapy radiation and immunotherapy Apoptosis and Cancer Chemotherapy Hickman and Dive eds. Blackwell Publishing 1999 . Also in autoimmune and transplantation related diseases and pathologies compounds inducing apoptosis may be used to restore normal cell death processes and therefore can eradicate the symptoms and might cure the diseases. Further applications of compounds inducing apoptosis may be in restenosis i.e. accumulation of vascular smooth muscle cells in the walls of arteries and in persistent infections caused by a failure to eradicate bacteria and virus infected cells. Furthermore apoptosis can be induced or re established in epithelial cells in endothelial cells in muscle cells and in others which have lost contact with extracellular matrix. These cells are potentially able to colonize other organs and therefore can develop into pathologies like neoplasias endometriosis and the like.

Triazolo and pyrazolo benzimidazoles of formula I are selectively inducing apoptosis in cancer cells and can be used for the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases. The invention relates to compounds of formula I to methods of synthesis of such compounds to pharmaceutical compositions containing compounds of formula I to the use of a compound of formula I as a medicament and for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases and to methods of treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases using such compounds of formula I or of pharmaceutical compositions containing same.

The general terms used hereinbefore and hereinafter preferably have within the context of this disclosure the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

The prefix lower denotes a radical having up to and including a maximum of 7 especially up to and including a maximum of 4 carbon atoms the radicals in question being either linear or branched with single or multiple branching.

Where the plural form is used for compounds salts and the like this is taken to mean also a single compound salt or the like.

Double bonds in principle can have E or Z configuration. The compounds of this invention may therefore exist as isomeric mixtures or single isomers. If not specified both isomeric forms are intended.

Any asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in the R S or R S configuration preferably in the R or S configuration. The compounds may thus be present as mixtures of isomers or as pure isomers preferably as enantiomer pure diastereomers.

Alkyl has from 1 to 12 preferably from 1 to 7 carbon atoms and is linear or branched. Alkyl is preferably lower alkyl.

Lower alkyl has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and is butyl such as n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl propyl such as n propyl or isopropyl ethyl or methyl. Preferably lower alkyl is methyl or ethyl.

Cycloalkyl has preferably 3 to 7 ring carbon atoms and may be unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. Cycloalkyl is for example cyclohexyl cyclopentyl or methylcyclopentyl.

Aryl stands for a mono or bicyclic fused ring aromatic group with 5 to 10 carbon atoms such as phenyl 1 naphthyl or 2 naphthyl or also a partially saturated bicyclic fused ring comprising a phenyl group such as indanyl dihydro or tetrahydronaphthyl.

In optionally substituted phenyl substituents are preferably lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy methylenedioxy halo lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkyl halo or nitro.

Heteroaryl represents an aromatic group containing at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and is mono or bicyclic. Monocyclic heteroaryl includes 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl groups containing 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen sulfur and oxygen. Bicyclic heteroaryl includes 9 or 10 membered fused ring heteroaryl groups. Examples of heteroaryl include pyrrolyl thienyl furyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl benzo fused derivatives of such monocyclic heteroaryl groups such as indolyl benzimidazolyl or benzofuryl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinazolinyl or purinyl.

In optionally substituted heteroaryl substituents are preferably lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkoxy lower alkoxy amino optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from lower alkyl lower alkenyl and alkylcarbonyl halo lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkyl halo or nitro.

Alkenyl contains one or more e.g. two or three double bonds and is preferably lower alkenyl such as 1 or 2 butenyl 1 propenyl allyl or vinyl.

Ethylenediyl designates a vinyl group bound to R and to methylene as defined in formula I . The bonds to R and to methylene may be in geminal or vicinal position of the vinyl group.

In optionally substituted alkenyl or alkinyl substituents are preferably lower alkyl lower alkoxy halo or di lower alkyl amino and are connected with a saturated carbon atom of alkenyl or alkinyl or with an unsaturated carbon atom of alkenyl.

Heterocyclyl designates preferably a saturated partially saturated or unsaturated mono or bicyclic ring containing 4 10 atoms comprising one two or three heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur which may unless otherwise specified be carbon or nitrogen linked wherein a ring nitrogen atom may optionally be substituted by a group selected from lower alkyl amino lower alkyl aryl aryl lower alkyl and acyl and a ring carbon atom may be substituted by lower alkyl amino lower alkyl aryl aryl lower alkyl heteroaryl lower alkoxy hydroxy or oxo. Examples of heterocyclyl are pyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl thiazolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl piperazinyl dioxolanyl and tetrahydropyranyl.

Acyl designates for example alkylcarbonyl cyclohexylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl aryl lower alkylcarbonyl or heteroarylcarbonyl. Lower acyl is preferably lower alkylcarbonyl in particular propionyl or acetyl.

Hydroxyalkyl is especially hydroxy lower alkyl preferably hydroxymethyl 2 hydroxyethyl or 2 hydroxy 2 propyl.

Haloalkyl is preferably fluoroalkyl especially trifluoromethyl 3 3 3 trifluoroethyl or pentafluoroethyl.

Arylalkyl includes aryl and alkyl as defined hereinbefore and is e.g. benzyl 1 phenethyl or 2 phenethyl.

Heteroarylalkyl includes heteroaryl and alkyl as defined hereinbefore and is e.g. 2 3 or 4 pyridylmethyl 1 or 2 pyrrolylmethyl 1 pyrazolylmethyl 1 imidazolylmethyl 2 1 imidazolyl ethyl or 3 1 imidazolyl propyl.

Two adjacent substituents which together with the atoms of aryl or heteroaryl may form a 5 or 6 membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring are for example propylene 1 or 2 oxopropylene 1 or 2 oxapropylene 1 oxapropylidene methylenedioxy difluoromethylenedioxy 1 or 2 azapropylene 1 or 2 azapropylidene 1 2 or 1 3 diazapropylidene 1 3 diaza 2 oxopropylene 1 2 3 triazapropylene butylene 1 or 2 oxabutylene ethylenedioxy 1 or 2 azabutylene or 1 or 2 azabutadienylidene or such groups carrying further substituents as defined hereinbefore.

A 5 or 6 membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring formed by substituents Rand Rtogether with the carbon atom they are bound to is e.g. cyclopentane cyclohexane such rings wherein one or preferably two carbon atoms are replaced by oxygen or such rings wherein one carbon atom is replaced by oxygen and another one by nitrogen and is optionally further substituted by lower alkyl lower alkoxy or lower alkoxy lower alkyl. Preferred examples are cyclic acetals formed from a carbonyl group with ethylene glycol or monoalkylated glycerin i.e. rings wherein the substituents Rand Rtogether represent 1 2 ethylenedioxy or 3 alkoxypropylene 1 2 dioxy.

In substituted amino the substituents are preferably those mentioned as substituents Rand R. In particular substituted amino is alkylamino dialkylamino optionally substituted arylamino optionally substituted arylalkylamino lower alkylcarbonylamino lower alkoxycarbonylamino or optionally substituted aminocarbonylamino.

When X represents a group C Y wherein Y stands for nitrogen substituted by hydroxy this corresponds to an oxime function. Oximes and the corresponding oxime alkyl ethers nitrogen substituted by alkoxy may be present in E or Z form or as mixture of isomers. In groups wherein Y stand for nitrogen substituted by optionally substituted amino this group corresponds to an optionally substituted hydrazone function. Substituents are those considered for substituted amino above in particular alkylamino dialkylamino optionally substituted arylamino or optionally substituted aralkylamino.

When Rrepresents ORand Ris hydrogen compounds of formula I are predominantly or exclusively present in the form of tautomers in particular the tautomer wherein the single bond connecting the five membered ring and Rwith the meaning OH is a double bond to oxygen and the double bond in the five membered ring between Q and the position connected to Ris a single bond and Q with the meaning N or CR is bearing an additional hydrogen atom. When Rrepresents NRRand one of Rand Ror both Rand Rare hydrogen compounds of formula I are to some extent present in the form of tautomers in particular the tautomer wherein the single bond connecting the five membered ring and Rwith the meaning NRRis a double bond to nitrogen and the double bond in the five membered ring between Q and the position connected to Ris a single bond and Q with the meaning N or CR is bearing an additional hydrogen atom.

Such salts are formed for example as acid addition salts preferably with organic or inorganic acids from compounds of formula I with a basic nitrogen atom especially the pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Suitable inorganic acids are for example halogen acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids are for example carboxylic phosphonic sulfonic or sulfamic acids for example acetic acid propionic acid octanoic acid decanoic acid dodecanoic acid glycolic acid lactic acid fumaric acid succinic acid adipic acid pimelic acid suberic acid azelaic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid amino acids such as glutamic acid or aspartic acid maleic acid hydroxymaleic acid methylmaleic acid cyclohexanecarboxylic acid adamantanecarboxylic acid benzoic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid phthalic acid phenylacetic acid mandelic acid cinnamic acid methane or ethane sulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 1 5 naphthalene disulfonic acid 2 3 or 4 methylbenzenesulfonic acid methylsulfuric acid ethylsulfuric acid dodecylsulfuric acid N cyclohexylsulfamic acid N methyl N ethyl or N propyl sulfamic acid or other organic protonic acids such as ascorbic acid.

For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations and these are therefore preferred.

In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that can be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identification of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds hereinbefore and hereinafter is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate and expedient.

The compound of the formula I may be administered in the form of a pro drug which is broken down in the human or animal body to give a compound of the formula I . Examples of pro drugs include in vivo hydrolysable esters of a compound of the formula I .

The compounds of formula I have valuable pharmacological properties. The invention also relates to compounds of formula I as defined hereinbefore for use as medicaments.

The efficacy of the compounds of the invention in inducing apoptosis in tumor cells can be demonstrated as follows 

Relative fluorescent activities of suitable tumor cell lines transfected with green fluorescent protein GFP are measured in the presence of compounds of the invention and of standard tumor drugs using the method described in WO 99 35493. Suitable tumor cell lines are A20.2J a BALB c B cell lymphoma PB 3c an IL 3 dependent non tumorigenic mastocyte line isolated from the bone marrow of a DBA 2 mouse Jurkat a human acute T cell leukemia cell line K562 a human chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line HL60 a human acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line Ramos and Raji human B cell lymphoma cell lines H9 and Hut78 human T cell lymphoma cell lines HeLa and KB human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines MCF7 SK BR 3 PC3 HBL 100 SW480 H460 and H1792 human adenocarcinoma cell lines and HT 1080 a human fibrosarcoma cell line. Preferred standard drugs as compounds for comparisons are a antimetabolites such as

Apoptosis is determined in a primary screen using a fluorescence plate reader and then in a secondary screen using FACS fluorescence activated cell scanning . Compounds causing apoptosis without substantial cytotoxic side effects are chosen for further testing and characterization by using a combination of the following well established assays 

On the basis of these studies a compound of formula I according to the invention shows therapeutic efficacy especially against neoplastic diseases and autoimmune diseases. In particular the compounds of the invention are active against malignancies e.g. epithelial neoplasms squamous cell neoplasms basal cell neoplasms transitional cell papillomas and carcinomas adenomas und adenocarcinomas adnexal and skin appendage neoplasms mucoepidermoid neoplasms cystic neoplasms mucinous and serous neoplasms ductal lobular and medullary neoplasms acinar cell neoplasms complex epithelial neoplasms specialized gonadal neoplasms paragangliomas and glomus tumors naevi and melanomas soft tissue tumors and sarcomas fibromatous neoplasms myxomatous neoplasms lipomatous neoplasms myomatous neoplasms complex mixed and stromal neoplasms fibroepithelial neoplasms synovial like neoplasms mesothelial neoplasms germ cell neoplasms trophoblastic neoplasms mesonephromas blood vessel tumors lymphatic vessel tumors osseous and chondromatous neoplasms giant cell tumors miscellaneous bone tumors odontogenic tumors gliomas neuro epitheliomatous neoplasms meningiomas nerve sheath tumors granular cell tumors and alveolar soft part sarcomas Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphomas other lymphoreticular neopiasms plasma cell tumors mast cell tumors immunoproliferative diseases leukemias miscellaneous myeloproliferative disorders lymphoproliferative disorders and myelodysplastic syndromes.

The compounds of the invention are likewise active against autoimmune diseases e.g. against systemic discoid or subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis antiphospholipid syndrome CREST progressive systemic sclerosis mixed connective tissue disease Sharp syndrome Reiter s syndrome juvenile arthritis cold agglutinin disease essential mixed cryoglobulinemia rheumatic fever ankylosing spondylitis chronic polyarthritis myasthenia gravis multiple sclerosis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Guillan Barr syndrome dermatomyositis polymyositis autoimmune hemolytic anemia thrompocytopenic purpura neutropenia type I diabetes mellitus thyroiditis including Hashimoto s and Grave disease Addison s disease polyglandular syndrome pemphigus vulgaris foliaceus sebaceous and vegetans bullous and cicatricial pemphigoid pemphigoid gestationis epidermolysis bullosa acquisita linear IgA disease lichen sclerosus et atrophicus morbus Duhring psoriasis vulgaris guttate generalized pustular and localized pustular psoriasis vitiligo alopecia areata primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune hepatitis all forms of glomerulonephritis pulmonal hemorrhage goodpasture syndrome IgA nephropathy pernicious anemia and autoimmune gastritis inflammatory bowel diseases including colitis ulcerosa and morbus Crohn Behcet s disease Celic Sprue disease autoimmune uveitis autoimmune myocarditis granulomatous orchitis aspermatogenesis without orchitis idiopatic and secondary pulmonary fibrosis inflammatory diseases with a possibility of autoimmune pathogensesis such as pyoderma gangrensosum lichen ruber sarcoidosis including L fgren and cutaneous subcutaneous type granuloma anulare allergic type I and type IV immunolgical reaction asthma bronchiale pollinosis atopic contact and airborne dermatitis large vessel vasculitis giant cell and Takayasu s arteritis medium sized vessel vasculitis polyarteritis nodosa Kawasaki disease small vessel vasculitis Wegener s granulomatosis Churg Strauss syndrome microscopic polangiitis Henoch Schoenlein purpura essential cryoglobulinemic vasculitis cutaneous leukoklastic angiitis hypersensitivity syndromes toxic epidermal necrolysis Stevens Johnson syndrome erythema multiforme diseases due to drug side effects all forms of cutaneous organ specific and systemic effects due to type I VI Coombs classification immunologic forms of reaction transplantation related pathologies such as acute and chronic graft versus host and host versus graft disease involving all organs skin heart kidney bone marrow eye liver spleen lung muscle central and peripheral nerve system connective tissue bone blood and lymphatic vessel genito urinary system ear cartillage primary and secondary lymphatic system including bone marrow lymph node thymus gastrointestinal tract including oro pharynx esophageus stomach small intestine colon and rectum including parts of above mentioned organs down to single cell level and substructures e.g. stem cells .

A compound of formula I can be administered alone or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents possible combination therapy taking the form of fixed combinations or the administration of a compound of the invention and one or more other therapeutic agents being staggered or given independently of one another or the combined administration of fixed combinations and one or more other therapeutic agents. A compound of formula I can besides or in addition be administered especially for tumor therapy in combination with chemotherapy radiotherapy immunotherapy surgical intervention or a combination of these. Long term therapy is equally possible as is adjuvant therapy in the context of other treatment strategies as described above. Other possible treatments are therapy to maintain the patient s status after tumor regression or even chemopreventive therapy for example in patients at risk. Particularly preferred is the use of compounds of formula I in combination with radiotherapy.

Therapeutic agents for possible combination are especially one or more cytostatic or cytotoxic compounds for example a chemotherapeutic agent or several selected from the group comprising indarubicin cytarabine interferon hydroxyurea bisulfan or an inhibitor of polyamine biosynthesis an inhibitor of protein kinase especially of serine threonine protein kinase such as protein kinase C or of tyrosine protein kinase such as epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase a cytokine a negative growth regulator such as TGF or IFN an aromatase inhibitor a classical cytostatic an inhibitor of the interaction of an SH2 domain with a phosphorylated protein an inhibitor of Bcl 2 and modulators of the Bcl 2 family members such as Bax Bid Bad Bim Nip3 and BH3 only proteins.

A compound according to the invention is not only for the prophylactic and preferably therapeutic management of humans but also for the treatment of other warm blooded animals for example of commercially useful animals for example rodents such as mice rabbits or rats or guinea pigs. Such a compound may also be used as a reference standard in the test systems described above to permit a comparison with other compounds.

With the groups of preferred compounds of formula I mentioned hereinafter definitions of substituents from the general definitions mentioned hereinbefore may reasonably be used for example to replace more general definitions with more specific definitions or especially with definitions characterized as being preferred.

Most preferably the invention relates to the compounds of the Examples and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use as a medicament especially to the compounds of Examples 1 2 3 4 5 6 11 12 14 15 16 17 and 18 and to pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Especially the invention relates to the use of a compound of formula I a prodrug or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of such a compound for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease.

Furthermore the invention provides a method for the treatment of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease which comprises administering a compound of formula I a prodrug or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the radicals and symbols have the meanings as defined above in a quantity effective against said disease to a warm blooded animal requiring such treatment.

A compound of the invention may be prepared by processes that though not applied hitherto for the new compounds of the present invention are known per se in particular

Suitable nucleophilic leaving groups Z in an alkylating agent of formula III are for example halides e.g. chloride bromide or iodide or sulfonates e.g. aromatic sulfonic acid esters such as benzenesulfonates p toluenesulfonates or p nitrobenzenesulfonates or also methanesulfonate or trifluormethanesulfonate. Also other customary leaving groups are considered e.g. ammonium salts azides diazonium salts di p toluenesulfonyl amines nitrates oxonium salts sulfonium salts or phosphonium salts.

Alkylation of a compound of formula II with an alkylating agent of formula III is performed in a manner known per se usually in the presence of a suitable polar or dipolar aprotic solvent with cooling or heating for example in a temperature range from approximately 30 C. to approximately 150 C. especially approximately around 0 C. to room temperature. Optionally a suitable base is added in particularly a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine or an inorganic basic salt e.g. potassium or sodium carbonate.

If one or more other functional groups for example carboxy hydroxy or amino are or need to be protected in a compound of formula II or III because they should not take part in the reaction these are such protecting groups as are usually applied in the synthesis of amides in particular peptide compounds cephalosporins penicillins nucleic acid derivatives and sugars.

The protecting groups may already be present in precursors and should protect the functional groups concerned against unwanted secondary reactions such as alkylations acylations etherifications esterifications oxidations solvolysis and similar reactions. It is a characteristic of protecting groups that they lend themselves readily i.e. without undesired secondary reactions to removal typically by solvolysis reduction photolysis or also by enzyme activity for example under conditions analogous to physiological conditions and that they are not present in the end products. The specialist knows or can easily establish which protecting groups are suitable with the reactions mentioned hereinabove and hereinafter.

The protection of such functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their removal reactions are described for example in standard reference books for peptide synthesis and in special books on protective groups such as

Other processes may be considered for the preparation of compounds of formula I wherein X is a bond and R is heteroaryl. For example a compound of formula I wherein X is a bond and R is C O NHNH i.e. a hydrazide may be transformed by reaction with an orthoester and amidine or an acylating agent followed by dehydratisation to give a corresponding compound wherein R is a 5 substituted 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl group. When R is C NH N OH i.e. a hydroxamic acid amide the corresponding reaction leads to a group R being a 5 substituted 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl function. When R is C NH NH i.e. an amidine reaction with a 1 3 diketone gives a 4 6 disubstituted pyrimidin 2 yl function. Other heterocycles may be formed in analogous reactions.

In the additional process steps carried out as desired functional groups of the starting compounds which should not take part in the reaction may be present in unprotected form or may be protected for example by one or more of the protecting groups mentioned hereinabove under protecting groups . The protecting groups are then wholly or partly removed according to one of the methods described there.

In the conversion of an obtainable compound of formula I into another compound of formula I X with the meaning C Y wherein Y is oxygen may for example be reduced to X with the meaning CRRwherein Ris hydrogen or hydroxy and Ris hydrogen. Suitable reducing agents are known in the art and are for example metal hydrides e.g. LiAlH LiAl OCH H or other alkoxy substituted lithium hydrides NaBH or BH optionally in the presence of a Lewis base e.g. AlClor BF or also with catalytical hydrogenation with hydrogen and a suitable noble metal catalyst. Through the choice of catalyst and reaction conditions it can be influenced whether the reaction stops at the alcohol stage Rhydroxy or to the fully saturated methylene stage Rhydrogen .

A compound of formula I wherein X is C Y and Y is oxygen may be reacted with an optionally O substituted hydroxylamine to give the corresponding oxime or oxime ether of formula I wherein X is C Y and Y is nitrogen substituted by hydroxy or alkoxy. By reaction with an optionally substituted hydrazine the corresponding hydrazone of formula I wherein X is C Y and Y is nitrogen substituted by optionally substituted amino is formed.

A compound of formula I wherein X is C Y and Y is oxygen may be reacted with a suitably substituted alcohol to give the corresponding acetal i.e. a compound of formula I wherein X is CRRand Rand Rrepresent alkoxy in the presence of an acid catalyst and optionally a water binding agent and or a water trap. Compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare part of a 1 3 dioxolane or a 1 3 dioxane may be obtained analogously by reaction of a compound of formula I wherein X is C O and Y is oxygen with a polyalcohol such as glycol propane 1 3 diol glycerol and the like.

An obtainable compound of formula I wherein Ris amino NRR and Rand or Ris hydrogen may be alkylated or acylated with a compound of formula R Z or R Z respectively wherein Z is a nucleophilic leaving group as described above to give a compound of formula I wherein Rand or Ris different from hydrogen. Preferred acylation conditions include the use of acid anhydrides and acid chlorides at elevated temperatures typically in a range from approximately 30 C. to approximately 150 C. An acidic or basic catalyst may be employed if desired. A compound of formula I wherein Rand or Ris alkyl may be obtained by alkylation of the parent compound of formula I . Typical reaction conditions allowing this transformation include the combination of a strong base such as a metal hydride or a metal alcoholate and a compound of formula R Z or R Z.

An obtainable compound of formula I wherein Ris hydroxy ORand Ris hydrogen may be alkylated with a compound of formula R Z wherein Z is a nucleophilic leaving group as described above to give a compound of formula I wherein Ris different from hydrogen. Typical reaction conditions allowing this transformation include the combination of a strong base such as a metal hydride or a metal alcoholate and a compound of formula R Z.

Further amino groups present in an aryl or heteroaryl group R or in one of the substitutents R R Ror Rmay be transformed to other nitrogen containing substituents under conditions known in the art. For example alkylation at nitrogen may be performed with an aldehyde under reducing conditions. For acylation the corresponding acyl chloride Z Cl is preferred. Alternatively an acid anhydride may be used or acylation may be accomplished with the free acid Z OH under conditions used for amide formation known per se in peptide chemistry e.g. with activating agents for the carboxy group such as 1 hydroxybenzotriazole optionally in the presence of suitable catalysts or co reagents.

Compounds of formula I wherein X NOH may be alkylated allowing access to the corresponding oxime ethers. The reaction conditions leading to this transformation include combinations of weak bases and alkylating agents. Typical bases include metal carbonates or bicarbonates.

Reduction of a nitro group in an nitro substituted aryl or heteroaryl group R or in one of the substituents R R Ror Rto give the corresponding amino group is done e.g. with iron powder in alcohol or with other reducing agents.

A carboxy group in a carboxy substituted aryl or heteroaryl group R or in one of the substituents R R Ror Rmay be amidated under conditions used for amide formation known per se in peptide chemistry e.g. with the corresponding amine and an activating agent for the carboxy group such as 1 hydroxybenzotriazole optionally in the presence of suitable catalysts or co reagents.

A bromo or iodo substitutent in an aryl or heteroaryl group R or in one of the substituents R R Ror Rmay be replaced by phenyl or a phenyl derivative by reaction with a suitable phenylboronic acid in a Suzuki reaction preferably in a dipolar aprotic solvent such as dimethyl formamide or in a polar ether e.g. tetrahydrofuran or dimethoxyethane in the presence of a soluble palladium 0 or related metal catalyst for example tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium.

Salts of a compound of formula I with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of formula I may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent.

Salts can usually be converted to free compounds e.g. by treating with suitable basic agents for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogencarbonates or alkali metal hydroxides typically potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide.

It should be emphasized that reactions analogous to the conversions mentioned in this chapter may also take place at the level of appropriate intermediates.

All process steps described here can be carried out under known reaction conditions preferably under those specifically mentioned in the absence of or usually in the presence of solvents or diluents preferably such as are inert to the reagents used and able to dissolve these in the absence or presence of catalysts condensing agents or neutralising agents for example ion exchangers typically cation exchangers for example in the H form depending on the type of reaction and or reactants at reduced normal or elevated temperature for example in the range from 100 C. to about 190 C. preferably from about 80 C. to about 150 C. for example at 80 to 60 C. at 20 to 40 C. at room temperature or at the boiling point of the solvent used under atmospheric pressure or in a closed vessel where appropriate under pressure and or in an inert atmosphere for example under argon or nitrogen.

Salts may be present in all starting compounds and transients if these contain salt forming groups. Salts may also be present during the reaction of such compounds provided the reaction is not thereby disturbed.

At all reaction stages isomeric mixtures that occur can be separated into their individual isomers e.g. diastereomers or enantiomers or into any mixtures of isomers e.g. racemates or diastereomeric mixtures.

The invention relates also to those forms of the process in which one starts from a compound obtainable at any stage as a transient and carries out the missing steps or breaks off the process at any stage or forms a starting material under the reaction conditions or uses said starting material in the form of a reactive derivative or salt or produces a compound obtainable by means of the process according to the invention and further processes the said compound in situ. In the preferred embodiment one starts from those starting materials which lead to the compounds described hereinabove as preferred particularly as especially preferred primarily preferred and or preferred above all.

In the preferred embodiment a compound of formula I is prepared according to or in analogy to the processes and process steps defined in the Examples.

The compounds of formula I including their salts are also obtainable in the form of hydrates or their crystals can include for example the solvent used for crystallization i.e. be present as solvates.

New starting materials and or intermediates as well as processes for the preparation thereof are likewise the subject of this invention. Particularly the invention concerns the starting material of formula II wherein Q represents CR Rrepresents a group NRR R R R Rand Rrepresent hydrogen R Rand Rrepresent hydrogen tautomers and salts thereof. In the preferred embodiment starting materials are used and reaction conditions so selected as to enable the preferred compounds to be obtained.

Starting materials of formula II and III are known commercially available or can be synthesized in analogy to or according to methods that are known in the art. In particular a starting material of formula II wherein Q is N is obtained by a process wherein a hydrazinobenzimidazole of formula IV 

Starting material of formula II wherein Q is CRis obtained in a process wherein the hydrazinobenzimidazole of formula IV wherein R R Rand Rare defined as for formula I or a derivative thereof with functional groups in protected form and or a salt thereof is treated with a compound of formula VI HOCH CR CN VI wherein Ris defined as for formula I .

Starting material of formula IV is obtained from the corresponding mercaptobenzimidazole of formula VII 

The present invention relates also to pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a compound of formula I as active ingredient and that can be used especially in the treatment of the diseases mentioned at the beginning. Compositions for enteral administration such as nasal buccal rectal or especially oral administration and for parenteral administration such as intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous administration to warm blooded animals especially humans are especially preferred. The compositions comprise the active ingredient alone or preferably together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The dosage of the active ingredient depends upon the disease to be treated and upon the species its age weight and individual condition the individual pharmacokinetic data and the mode of administration.

The present invention relates especially to pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a compound of formula I a tautomer a prodrug or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a hydrate or solvate thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention relates also to pharmaceutical compositions for use in a method for the prophylactic or especially therapeutic management of the human or animal body in particular in a method of treating neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease especially those mentioned hereinabove.

The invention relates also to processes and to the use of compounds of formula I thereof for the preparation of pharmaceutical preparations which comprise compounds of formula I as active component active ingredient .

A pharmaceutical composition for the prophylactic or especially therapeutic management of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease of a warm blooded animal especially a human or a commercially useful mammal requiring such treatment comprising a novel compound of formula I as active ingredient in a quantity that is prophylactically or especially therapeutically active against the said diseases is likewise preferred.

The pharmaceutical compositions comprise from approximately 1 to approximately 95 active ingredient single dose administration forms comprising in the preferred embodiment from approximately 20 to approximately 90 active ingredient and forms that are not of single dose type comprising in the preferred embodiment from approximately 5 to approximately 20 active ingredient. Unit dose forms are for example coated and uncoated tablets ampoules vials suppositories or capsules. Further dosage forms are for example ointments creams pastes foams tinctures lip sticks drops sprays dispersions etc. Examples are capsules containing from about 0.05 g to about 1.0 g active ingredient.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are prepared in a manner known per se for example by means of conventional mixing granulating coating dissolving or lyophilizing processes.

Preference is given to the use of solutions of the active ingredient and also suspensions or dispersions especially isotonic aqueous solutions dispersions or suspensions which for example in the case of lyophilized compositions comprising the active ingredient alone or together with a carrier for example mannitol can be made up before use. The pharmaceutical compositions may be sterilized and or may comprise excipients for example preservatives stabilizers wetting agents and or emulsifiers solubilizers salts for regulating osmotic pressure and or buffers and are prepared in a manner known per se for example by means of conventional dissolving and lyophilizing processes. The said solutions or suspensions may comprise viscosity increasing agents typically sodium carboxymethylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose dextran polyvinylpyrrolidone or gelatins or also solubilizers e.g. Tween 80 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan mono oleate .

Suspensions in oil comprise as the oil component the vegetable synthetic or semi synthetic oils customary for injection purposes. In respect of such special mention may be made of liquid fatty acid esters that contain as the acid component a long chained fatty acid having from 8 to 22 especially from 12 to 22 carbon atoms. The alcohol component of these fatty acid esters has a maximum of 6 carbon atoms and is a monovalent or polyvalent for example a mono di or trivalent alcohol especially glycol and glycerol. As mixtures of fatty acid esters vegetable oils such as cottonseed oil almond oil olive oil castor oil sesame oil soybean oil and groundnut oil are especially useful.

The manufacture of injectable preparations is usually carried out under sterile conditions as is the filling for example into ampoules or vials and the sealing of the containers.

Suitable carriers are especially fillers such as sugars for example lactose saccharose mannitol or sorbitol cellulose preparations and or calcium phosphates for example tricalcium phosphate or calcium hydrogen phosphate and also binders such as starches for example corn wheat rice or potato starch methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and or polyvinylpyrrolidone and or if desired disintegrators such as the above mentioned starches also carboxymethyl starch crosslinked polyvinylpyrrolidone alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate. Additional excipients are especially flow conditioners and lubricants for example silicic acid talc stearic acid or salts thereof such as magnesium or calcium stearate and or polyethylene glycol or derivatives thereof.

Tablet cores can be provided with suitable optionally enteric coatings through the use of inter alia concentrated sugar solutions which may comprise gum arabic talc polyvinylpyrrolidone polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide or coating solutions in suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures or for the preparation of enteric coatings solutions of suitable cellulose preparations such as acetylcellulose phthalate or hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate. Dyes or pigments may be added to the tablets or tablet coatings for example for identification purposes or to indicate different doses of active ingredient.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration also include hard capsules consisting of gelatin and also soft sealed capsules consisting of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The hard capsules may contain the active ingredient in the form of granules for example in admixture with fillers such as corn starch binders and or glidants such as talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active ingredient is preferably dissolved or suspended in suitable liquid excipients such as fatty oils paraffin oil or liquid polyethylene glycols or fatty acid esters of ethylene or propylene glycol to which stabilizers and detergents for example of the polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid ester type may also be added.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for rectal administration are for example suppositories that consist of a combination of the active ingredient and a suppository base. Suitable suppository bases are for example natural or synthetic triglycerides paraffin hydrocarbons polyethylene glycols or higher alkanols.

For parenteral administration aqueous solutions of an active ingredient in water soluble form for example of a water soluble salt or aqueous injection suspensions that contain viscosity increasing substances for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran and if desired stabilizers are especially suitable. The active ingredient optionally together with excipients can also be in the form of a lyophilizate and can be made into a solution before parenteral administration by the addition of suitable solvents.

Solutions such as are used for example for parenteral administration can also be employed as infusion solutions.

Preferred preservatives are for example antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or microbicides such as sorbic acid or benzoic acid.

The present invention relates furthermore to a method for the treatment of a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease which comprises administering a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the radicals and symbols have the meanings as defined above for formula I in a quantity effective against said disease to a warm blooded animal requiring such treatment. The compounds of formula I can be administered as such or especially in the form of pharmaceutical compositions prophylactically or therapeutically preferably in an amount effective against the said diseases to a warm blooded animal for example a human requiring such treatment. In the case of an individual having a bodyweight of about 70 kg the daily dose administered is from approximately 0.05 g to approximately 5 g preferably from approximately 0.25 g to approximately 1.5 g of a compound of the present invention.

The present invention relates especially also to the use of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof especially a compound of formula I which is said to be preferred or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as such or in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the therapeutic and also prophylactic management of one or more of the diseases mentioned hereinabove in particular a neoplastic disease autoimmune disease transplantation related pathology and or degenerative disease.

The preferred dose quantity composition and preparation of pharmaceutical formulations medicines which are to be used in each case are described above.

The following Examples serve to illustrate the invention without limiting the invention in its scope.

A suspension of 3 amino 2 1H benzimidazol 2 yl 1 2 4 triazole 0.15 g 0.75 mol 3 4 dimethyl phenacyl bromide 0.204 g 0.9 mmol and dry potassium carbonate 0.258 g 1.87 mmol is stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture is diluted with water and the product extracted with ethyl acetate. The product is purified by chromatography on silicagel. M.p. 190 193 C. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 7.84 m 1H 7.77 m 3H 7.65 m 2H 7.50 s 1H 7.33 d 1H 6.22 s 2H 2.30 s 6H .

To a solution of 2 hydrazino 1H benzimidazole 5.0 g 33.7 mmol in ethanol 30 ml is added sequentially triethylamine 5 ml 33.7 mmol and N cyanoformimidic acid ethyl ester 3.3 g 33.7 mmol with cooling. After stirring for 2 hours at 0 C. the resulting precipitate is filtered with suction and dried to give 3 amino 2 1H benzimidazol 2 yl 1 2 4 triazole. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 13.0 s 1H 7.77 s 1H 7.70 m 2H 7.50 m 2H 7.20 s 2H .

To a mixture of 2 mercapto 1H benzimidazole 15 g 100 mmol sodium hydroxide 4.4 g 110 mmol and a catalytic amount of tungstic acid is added hydrogen peroxide 43 ml 100 mmol of a 30 aqueous solution within 2 hours keeping the temperature at 25 C. Additional hydrogen peroxide 3 1 ml is added to complete the transformation. After the addition of hydrazine hydrate 15 g 300 mmol the mixture is heated at 80 C. for 5 hours. On cooling the 2 hydrazino 1H benzimidazole starts crystallizing. Filtration with sucking washing with ether and drying yields the pure product. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 10.9 s 1H 7.78 m 1H 7.10 m 2H 6.84 m 2H 4.42 s 2H .

A mixture of cyanamide 15 g 357 mmol and triethyl orthoformate 110 ml is heated at reflux for 2 hours. Fractionation of the resulting mixture yields N cyanoformimidic acid ethyl ester.

A suspension of 5 amino 2 1H benzimidazol 2 yl pyrazole 0.10 g 0.5 mmol p methoxyphenacyl bromide 0.204 g 0.9 mmol and dry potassium carbonate 0.173 g 1.25 mmol is stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture is diluted with water and the product extracted with ethyl acetate. The product is purified by chromatography on silicagel. M.p. 136 140 C. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 8.04 d 2H 7.58 m 2H 7.28 m 3H 7.11 d 2H 6.84 s 2H 6.26 s 2H 5.39 d 1H 3.87 s 3H .

A mixture of ethyl formate 5 ml 62 mmol acetonitrile 1 g 25 mmol and ethanol 0.5 ml is added dropwise to a suspension of sodium hydride 0.96 g 40 mmol in ether at room temperature. After stirring for 16 hours the volatiles are removed under reduced pressure. The residue is diluted with water and the pH is adjusted by addition of AcOH to 7. After addition of 2 hydrazino1 H benzimidazole 6.6 g 45 mmol the mixture is allowed to stand for 5 hours. The pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide and the mixture extracted with chloroform. The crude title product is used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 12.7 s 1H 7.57 s 1H 7.49 m 2H 7.40 m 2H 7.19 s 2H 6.9 s 2H 5.44 d 1H .

Cell lines are cultured in RPMI 1640 tissue culture medium containing either 5 or 10 fetal calf serum 0.05 mM 2 mercaptoethanol 2 mM glutamine and penicillin streptomycin 50 g ml complete medium Sigma Buchs Switzerland . General growth conditions are 37 C. and 7.5 CO.

The following mouse cell lines either EGFP transfected or not are being used A20.2J ATCC TIB 208 MC57G ATCC CRL 2295 .

The following human cell lines either EGFP transfected or not are being used HeLa ATCC CCL 2 KB ATCC CCL 17 MCF7 ATCC HTB 22 SK BR 3 ATCC HTB 30 SK Mel 1 ATCC HTB 67 SK Mel 28 ATCC HTB 72 PC 3 ATCC CRL 1435 SW 480 ATCC CCL 228 NCI H460 ATCC HTB 177 NCI H1792 ATCC CRL 5895 HT1080 ATCC CCL 21 Jurkat ATCC TIB 152 Ramos ATCC CRL 1596 Raji ATCC CCL 86 H9 ATCC HTB 176 Hut78 ATCC TIB 161 K562 ATCC CCL 243 HL 60 ATCC CCL 240 U 87MG ATCC HTB 14 HepG2 ATCC HB 8065 U 2 OS ATCC HTB 96 Saos 2 ATCC HTB 85 U937 ATCC CRL 1593 Hs 578T ATCC HTB 126 HBL 100 ATCC HTB 124 Molt 4 ATCC CRL 1582 .

All the manipulations are performed under sterile conditions. The assays are being performed in commercially available 96 or 384 well flat bottom clear microtiter plates Greiner Germany respectively which are suitable for tissue culture techniques. A defined number of EGFP transfected adherent test cells 96 well plates 10 10 384 well plates 1500 2 10 are plated out 24 hours before treatment either in 75 l 96 well plates or 60 l 384 well plates complete medium per well in order to ensure appropriate cell spreading. For this purpose a peristaltic pump e.g. Multidrop by Thermo Labsystems Finland or another suitable device is used. Cells in suspension are plated out according to the same procedure but 1 h prior to treatment. Between seeding out and treatment or addition of compounds the cells are incubated at 37 C. under 7.5 CO. Subsequently the compounds under investigation are added at defined concentrations 40 80 M in either 25 l 96 well plates or 20 l 384 well plates complete medium containing max 4 DMSO with an appropriate device e.g. liquid handling system multi channel pipette etc. resulting in a final concentration in the test well of 10 20 M compound in max 1 DMSO.

Immediately after the addition of the compounds to the cells the zero fluorescence value t 0 h is determined by using a fluorescence microplate reader in order to be able to normalize the fluorescence activities. Afterwards the test plates are further incubated for a total of 48 h at 37 C. under 7.5 COand are shortly removed only for the purpose of measurement at 8 h 24 h and 48 h respectively.

Relative fluorescence activities of EGFP in compound treated test cells in relation to control cells and cells treated with standard drugs are measured by using a BMG Fluostar microplate fluorescence reader equipped with a filter pair for excitation emission at 485 nm 520 nm. The optimum signal to noise ratio is detected by using the time resolved mode of measurement with a delay of 20 us and an integration time over 1 ms. The gain is adjusted in such a way that the control cells produce a fluorescence activity of 90 of the maximum. Kinetics is performed by measuring the relative fluorescence activities at

t 0 h 8 h 24 h and 48 h. Crude fluorescence activities are individually normalized for different cell numbers and various optical activities of the test compounds plate wells by dividing each value from t 8 h 24 h and 48 h by the value of t 0 h resulting in E 8 E 24 and E 48 values. Subsequently the E x values are further processed by forming the inverse Q value of the products E 8 E 24 E 48 which result in numbers 1 for apoptotic necrotic activities of the compounds and numbers 2 are being considered relevant in terms of apoptotic necrotic activity and are subsequently tested in the secondary screening setup.

All the manipulations are performed under sterile conditions. The assays are being performed in case of adherent cells in commercially available 24 well flat bottom tissue culture plates Greiner Germany and in case of suspension cells in polypropylene tubes

Adherent test cells 2 10 4 10of EGFP transfected cells in 0.5 ml complete medium are plated out 24 h before treatment. At t 0 the medium is removed and 450 l new complete medium is added. Subsequently 50 l complete medium containing the test compound in max. 5 DMSO is added resulting in final concentrations of 20 M 10 M 3 M 1 M and 0.3 M of the test compounds respectively. After 48 h incubation the cells are harvested and analyzed with fluorescence activated cell scanning device FACS Calibur BD Biosciences according to standard procedures.

Suspension cells 10test cells in 450 l complete medium are pipetted into P tubes. 50 l complete medium containing the compounds see adherent cells is added immediately. After 48 h of incubation the test cells are analyzed directly on a FACSCalibur .

By monitoring the EGFP fluorescence activity in FL1 on a FACSCalibur it is possible to distinguish between proliferating cells apoptotic cells and necrotic cells within the same cell population. The proliferating cells show a high GFP fluorescence activity the apoptotic population shows an intermediate fluorescence activity whereas the necrotic cells demonstrate a residual fluorescence activity comparable to mock transfected cells. Within the CellQuest Software BD Biosciences three regions are defined in the histogram M1 comprising the proliferating cells M2 comprising the apoptotic cell population and M3 comprising the necrotic cell population. As readout the relative abundance of the cells belonging either to M1 M2 or M3 are expressed. Compounds inducing M2 values 50 and M3 values 

This assay is performed in 96 well tissue culture plates. Appropriate number of cells adherent cells 3 5 10 suspension cells 8 10 10 are being seeded out in 80 l complete medium. Adherent cells are incubated for 24 h for proper spreading out before addition of test compounds while suspension cells are immediately treated with test compounds after seeding out. The test compounds are added in 20 l complete medium containing max 5 DMSO. The final compound concentrations in the assays are 10 M 3 M 1 M and 0.3 M respectively. After 24 h or 48 h incubation at culture conditions 10 l medium containing Hoechst 33342 dye Sigma B 2261 at 2 5 g ml are added to each well. The assay plates are then further incubated for 30 minutes and subsequently analyzed with a standard inverted fluorescence microscope.

The readout allows the determination of the fraction of apoptotic nuclei as well as other morphological criteria specific for apoptosis as a function of the treatment. Results are indicated in Table 3. The following scores are used 0 relating to no activity 1 relating to weak activity comprising less than 50 of the cells and score 2 relating to strong activity comprising more than 50 of the cells.

The assay is performed in 96 well tissue culture plates. The cells range 1.5 10 10 are seeded out in 80 l complete medium 24 h prior to compound treatment. The test compounds are added in 20 l complete medium containing max 5 DMSO. The final compound concentrations in the assays are 10 M 3 M 1 M and 0.3 M respectively. The assay plates are incubated for 72 h at culture conditions. The MTS reagent is prepared according to the manufacturer s protocol Promega G1111 . 20 l MTS reagent are added to each well the assay plates are quickly spun and incubated for another 3 h at culture conditions. Subsequently the plates are shortly shaked and absorption measured with a microplate reader at 492 nm. ICvalues are determined by graphical analysis and are indicated in the Table 4 in M concentration.

Adherent cells 1 2 10 are 24 h prior to compound treatment seeded into 24 well tissue culture plates. Suspension cells are pipetted into P tubes immediately before treatment. Test compounds are added leading to a final concentrations of 10 M. After 24 h treatment cells are harvested in case of adherent cells by trypsinization and transferred to FACS tubes BD Biosciences . After centrifugation and removal of the supernatant 100 l complete medium containing AnnexinV GST 10 g is added mixed and incubated at 4 C. for 30 minutes. Subsequently the cells are washed once with medium and incubated with 100 l anti GST Alexa 488 Molecular Probes A 11131 in medium diluted 1 500 for 30 minutes at 4 C. Then cells are washed once and stained with 1 g ml 7 aminoactinomycin D 7 AAD Molecular Probes A 1310 in 250 l medium and analyzed on the FACSCalibur . AnnexinV is measured in FL1 whereas 7 AAD is measured in FL3.

1 2 10cells are seeded into 24 well tissue culture plates and incubated for 24 h prior to compound addition. Compounds are added for 24 h in a final concentration of 3 M or 10 M. Adherent cells are harvested by trypsinization. The cell suspensions are fixed by adding 2 parts ice cold ethanol 100 while vortexing. Then the samples are stored for 2 h at 20 C. Subsequently the cells are washed with PBS once and resuspended in 250 l PBS containing 50 g ml Pl Calbiochem 537059 then the samples are incubated at 37 C. for 30 minutes and subsequently analyzed on a FACSCalibur monitoring linear Pl fluorescence activity on FL2. The readout allows the detection of a possible direct or indirect influence of the tested compounds on the cell cycle. The following events can occur a Generation of a subG1 peak indicative for DNA fragmentation b increase of the cell population arrested in G2M phase.

Adherent cells are seeded out at 2 4 10cells well ml in 24 well tissue culture plates 24 h prior to treatment. Suspension cells are seeded out at 2 10cells ml well in 24 well plates. Compounds are added leading to final concentrations of 3 M and 10 M respectively. Subsequently BrdU Molecular Probes B 23151 at 10 M final concentration is added and the plates are incubated for 48 h. After the incubation cells are processed according to standard procedures. The detection of the incorporated BrdU is done with the anti bromodeoxyuridine Mab PRB 1 Alexa Fluor 660 conjugate Molecular Probes A 21306 . The analysis is performed on a FACSCalibur by monitoring the fluorescence activity on FL3. The readout reflects DNA synthesis which is a hallmark for proliferation.

Caspase dependencies are being evaluated by combining the compound treatment with the pan caspase inhibitor zVAD or its control peptide zFA ICN Pharmaceuticals FK009 and FK029 respectively . Both peptides are being used at 20 M concentration. In case of caspase dependencies a clear inhibition of the specific readout in all apoptosis tests should be detected. By comparing the readout of zVAD and zFA treated samples with the compound control it is possible to detect caspase resp. cystein proteinase dependencies. In case of inhibition by zVAD but not by zFA a clear caspase dependency is obvious. An inhibition by zVAD as well as by zFA points towards the involvement of cystein proteinases in the apoptotic cascade.

5000 soft gelatin capsules each comprising as active ingredient 0.05 g of one of the compounds of formula I mentioned in the preceding Examples are prepared as follows 

250 g pulverized active ingredient is suspended in 2 liter Lauroglykol propylene glycol laurate Gattefoss S.A. Saint Priest France and ground in a wet pulverizer to produce a particle size of about 1 to 3 m. 0.419 g portions of the mixture are then introduced into soft gelatin capsules using a capsule filling machine.

