---

title: Method for producing eritadenine in liquid phase fermentation
abstract: Method to produce eritadenine by liquid phase fermentation of without formation of the fruit body wherein the is exposed to shear during its cultivation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08053217&OS=08053217&RS=08053217
owner: Working Bugs AB
number: 08053217
owner_city: Lulea
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20080506
---
There is a significant industrial interest in the production of the compound eritadenine particularly for but not limited to its potential use as a blood cholesterol reducing therapeutic agent for humans. The fungus more commonly known as the shiitake mushroom is known to produce eritadenine when the fungus forms the fruit body of the mushroom. In prior art it was discussed that eritadenine could only be formed in significant amounts by causing the formation of the fruit body. This is a problem since the cost of raising shiitake solely for extraction of the eritadenine is prohibitive. In order to produce the eritadenine as a therapeutic agent there is a need to be able to produce it in fermentive culture.

The present invention provides a solution to the problem of producing eritadenine in liquid phase fermentation of without formation of the fruit body. In particular the present invention provides a solution to the problem above by exposing the fungus to shear during its cultivation it not only produces eritadenine but also secretes it extracellularly into the fermentation medium. Thus the new method disclosed in the present invention makes liquid phase fermentation a viable method for industrial eritiadenine production.

The invention discloses a method for producing eritadenine in liquid phase fermentation of herein the is exposed to shear during its cultivation.

Further example is the method above wherein also secretes eritadenine extracellularly into the fermentation medium.

It is important to maintain a filamentous structure and not allow the organism to form a pellet structure. The shear accomplishes this.

Analogous mutated variants thereof and derivate of could be used and is within the scope of the present invention.

The shiitake mushroom is traditionally used in East Asia but ever since the last decades it is cultivated and consumed worldwide. In addition to being a popular edible fungus it is well established as a medicinal mushroom since it contains several substances promoting health. Among other things the ability to reduce blood cholesterol in both animals and humans has been ascribed to this mushroom 1 4 . The agent responsible for the plasma cholesterol reducing effect is an adenine derivative designated as eritadenine Eritadenine was designated as lentinacin or lentysine by the research groups initially isolating it before given its trivial name. 2 R 3 R dihydroxy 4 9 adenyl butyric acid 5 6 and its hypocholesterolemic effects has been shown in several studies on rats 5 7 15 . The hypocholesterolemic action of eritadenine has been investigated in several studies on rats but the mechanism by which eritadenine bring about its hypocholesterolemic effect is not fully elucidated. Eritadenine is suggested to accelerate the removal of blood cholesterol either by stimulated tissue uptake or by inhibited tissue release there are no indications of this compound inhibiting the biosynthesis of cholesterol 15 and the hepatic cholesterol levels in rats are not lowered by eritadenine 8 15 . Further it has been shown that plasma cholesterol levels are significantly decreased in rats fed 0.005 of eritadenine in their diets 5 9 13 14 and that the hypocholesterolemic action is caused by a decrease of the phosphatidylcholine PC phophatidylethanolamine PE ratio 9 13 . Eritadenine is a very potent inhibitor of the enzyme S adenosyl L homocysteine hydrolase in rat liver cells 16 hereby causing an increase in the S adenosylhomocysteine concentration 17 . The increase in S adenosylhomocysteine concentration in turn inhibits the PE N methylation thus increasing the PE content in liver microsomes 12 . Further studies on rats suggest that eritadenine may increase the uptake of plasma lipoprotein cholesterol by the liver and thus reduce the plasma cholesterol 13 . There is a possibility that the change in composition of the membrane phospholipids may activate lipoprotein receptors in liver cell membranes thus regulating the uptake of plasma lipoprotein lipids 9 .

The amounts of eritadenine in the fruit bodies of shiitake as determined by column chromatography fractionation or GC were found to be in the range 0.5 0.7 and 0.3 0.4 mg g dried caps and stems respectively 18 19 . Later studies pertaining to HPLC analysis of extracts from different fruit bodies of shiitake have shown eritadenine amounts in the range 3.17 6.33 mg g mushrooms 20 . The mycelia of shiitake have also been found to contain eritadenine the amount determined by GC analysis was 0.737 mg g dried biomass 21 . Although fruit bodies seem to contain significantly higher amounts of eritadenine growing fruit bodies of shiitake is a fairly demanding and time consuming process. Hence in search for a source of eritadenine mycelia could be an alternative to the fruit bodies.

The use of fungi for their biochemical activities is not a new phenomenon and in the later decades submerged cultivations of fungi for production of commercially important products have increased. Filamentous fungi like shiitake are morphologically complex organisms and exhibit different hyphal morphologies in submerged culture and thus differences in metabolism and production of secondary metabolites such as eritadenine. The morphology of filamentous fungi in liquid culture is a result of the organism used and the chemical and physical culturing conditions and it can range from freely dispersed filaments to densely interwoven aggregates. There is no generally preferred mycelial structure which morphology is desirable for maximal yield depends on the product in question. The reason why shiitake mushrooms synthesize eritadenine is yet not clarified i.e. the purpose this compound serves for the mushroom as well as the circumstances for its production is not elucidated. Therefore it is of great interest to investigate shiitake mycelia for eritadenine production submerged cultivation of mycelia offers a convenient way to change the conditions in order to improve eritadenine yield and productivity. Hence stirring rate and pH two major factors influencing the morphology and probably eritadenine production were investigated in the present invention.

Further no data investing the broth from liquid cultures of shiitake mycelia for eritadenine content has been found in the literature. Eritadenine produced by submerged cultivation of shiitake mycelia could be an efficient process and if the compound of interest is excreted to the medium its availability increases and thus the convenience of harvesting. Therefore the goal of the present invention was to evaluate if submerged cultivation of shiitake mycelia could be a conceivable way of producing eritadenine. The mycelia were cultivated under different conditions and both the biomass and culture broth were investigated for its eritadenine content.

In search for a potential source of the blood cholesterol lowering compound eritadenine as an alternative to fruit bodies of shiitake its mycelia were investigated. Filamentous fungi like shiitake exhibit different hyphal morphologies in submerged cultures depending on the cultivation conditions. The metabolism and production of secondary metabolites such as eritadenine might in turn be affected by the morphology of the mycelia. For this reason the mycelia were cultivated in different conditions in order to investigate the effect of pH and stirring rate on production of eritadenine. The reason and circumstances for shiitake to produce eritadenine is not known and there exists no data in the literature on its content in the broth from submerged cultivation. Therefore not only the mycelia but also the resulting broths were analyzed for eritadenine content. In this study eritadenine was found in both the mycelia and the surrounding media see table 1. In the shake flask cultures the lowest eritadenine content was detected. In this case there is no impeller and hence the mycelia form macroscopic aggregates pellets. The mycelial morphology in the bioreactor cultivations were freely dispersed filaments and the eritadenine content were higher than in the shake flasks. In all cases the initial pH was 5.8 but during growth the pH dropped to 3.0 in the shake flasks. This low final pH indicates acid production. Further in the cases where pH was uncontrolled the final pH in the bio reactors was 4.2 and 5.0 at 250 and 50 rpm respectively. Clearly the mycelia change their metabolism and acid production depending on the physical culture conditions. According to previous studies 25 optimum pH for growth of shiitake mycelia is 3.0 3.5 while for production of antibacterial substances the optimum pH was 4.5. The low final pH in shake flasks combined with the relatively low amount of eritadenine indicate that for eritadenine production a pH higher than 3.0 is preferable. Further the results from the bioreactor cultivations indicate that lower pH than 5.7 favour eritadenine production at the same stirring rate. When comparing the biomass produced the higher agitation speed 250 rpm runs resulted in about double the mycelial biomass than runs at lower 50 rpm agitation speed whereas eritadenine production was higher in the latter case. Taken together the results from this study show that eritadenine is produced by shiitake mycelia and the major part of it is excreted to the surrounding medium. The results also indicate that the optimal conditions for mycelial biomass production and eritadenine production not necessarily coincide.

The following examples provided in table 1 are intended only to further illustrate the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Thus stirring rates or agitation speeds are only intended as examples. The stirring rates could vary from at least 25 to as high as is possible in order to producing eritadenine in liquid phase fermentation. The stirring rates depends on the size of the impeller. Thus the skilled person in the field could optimize the method depending on the available equipment. Examples of stirring rates could then be 25 50 100 250 500 1000 1500 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 and 7000. The preferred pH interval is in the order of 3.0 to 6.0. Other examples of intervals are 3.0 5.7 3.5 5.7 3.5 5 0 4.0 5.0 etc.

One example of exposing to shear during its cultivation is stirring but other agitation techniques could be used. Any type of equipment such as a bioreactor could be used.

Fungal material. The shiitake strain used was 2 Le 2 . Mycelia of this strain were kindly supplied by Dr. Gary L. Mills Diversified Natural Products Inc. Scottville Mich. USA. The mycelia were cultivated on malt yeast agar MYA plates composed of w v 2 malt extract 0.2 yeast extract and 2 microbial agar for 10 days at 23 C.

Shake flask cultures. Mycelia from MYA plates were homogenised in a 0.05 mM phosphate buffer pH 5.8 and transferred to 200 mL of malt yeast medium composed of w v 2 malt extract and 0.2 yeast extract with 2 glucose added. The submerged cultivation took place in 500 mL shake flasks at 150 rpm for 20 days at 23 C. Following cultivation the mycelia were harvested by filtering the culture through Whatman OOH filter paper and washed with distilled water. The biomass was then dried over night and the dry weight determined. The filtrated broth was collected for further analysis.

Bioreactor cultivation. Mycelia from MYA plates were homogenised in a 0.05 mM phosphate buffer pH 5.8 and transferred to 700 mL malt yeast medium composed of w v 2 malt extract 0.2 yeast extract with 2 glucose added. The submerged cultivation took place in 1 L bioreactors Biobundle 1 L Applikon Biotechnology the Netherlands with a stirring rate of either 50 or 250 rpm a temperature of 25 C. a dissolved oxygen flowrate of 1 vol vol and a pH either controlled at 5.7 or uncontrolled. After 20 days of cultivation the mycelia were harvested by filtering the culture through Whatman OOH filter paper and washed with distilled water. The biomass was then dried over night and the dry weight determined. The filtrated broth was collected for further analysis.

Preparation of eritadenine standard. Eritadenine was synthesized according to the following procedure. In the first step methyl 2 3 O Isopropylidene D ribofuranoside was synthesized 22 . This product was further processed to give the compound methyl 2 3 O isopropylidene 5 O p toluenesulfonyl D ribofuranoside 23 . The third step was a reaction of sodium salt of adenine with methyl 2 3 O Isopropylidene 5 O p toluenesulfonyl D ribofuranoside. This reaction gave the product methyl 5 6 Aminopurin 9H 9 yl 2 3 O isopropylidene 5 deoxy D ribofuranoside. Hydrolysis of this product resulted in 5 6 Aminopurin 9H 9 yl 5 deoxy D ribofuranose. The final step was an air oxidation of the previous compound to get the product 2 R 3 R dihydroxy 4 9 adenyl butyric acid i.e. d eritadenine 24 . All chemicals were of analytical grade. In order to verify the correct product and its purity NMR analysis was conducted for each step of the synthesis and compared with the literature. An LC MS run further confirmed the final product. A stock solution 1.98 mg mL of the standard was prepared by dissolving synthesized eritadenine in distilled water.

Extraction of eritadenine from mycelia. The mycelial biomass was extracted with 80 v v methanol for about 3 hours under reflux with a solid liquid ratio of 1 20. The fungal extract was then filtered through Whatman No. 5 filter paper and washed with distilled water. The resulting filtrate was concentrated in vacuo at 50 60 C. and analyzed.

Ion exchange purification of culture medium. The broth was concentrated in vacuo and the pH adjusted to 5.8 and applied to a column of Amberlite IR 120 H ion exchange resin. The substance was eluted with 2 ammonia showing high absorbance at 260 nm. The volume collected was evaporated to dryness in vacuo at 50 60 C. diluted in 50 mL distilled water and applied to an Amberlite IRA 67 OH ion exchange resin. The substance was eluted with 0.1 M acetic acid and fractions showing high absorbance at 260 nm were collected. After evaporation to dryness in vacuo at 50 60 C. the mushroom sample was dissolved in distilled water and analyzed.

HPLC analysis. The eritadenine concentrations in shiitake mycelia and culture broth were analyzed by HPLC Series 200 Quaternary LC pump and UV VIS detector TotalChrom software PerkinElmer and separated over a C18 column RESTEK ultra aqueous 5 m 4.6 mm 150 mm . Prior to analysis the samples were diluted twice with the initial mobile phase and filtered through a 0.2 m syringe filter. The HPLC analysis was conducted at 23 C. with a flow rate of 1 mL min and UV detection at 260 nm. The initial mobile phase was 0.05 TFA in aqueous solution 0.05 TFA in MeCN in the proportions 98 2 followed by a linear change to 40 60 over 10 min and then returned to the initial condition for 15 min. All data were collected and processed using PerkinElmer s TotalChrom analytical software. Peak areas from the chromatograms were evaluated on the basis of a reference curve prepared from standard samples of eritadenine diluted in the initial mobile phase to concentrations in the range 0.0124 0.198 mg mL.

17. Schanche J. Schanche T. Ueland P. Holy A. Votruba I. The effect of aliphatic adenine analogues on S adenosylhomocysteine and S adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase in intact rat hepatocytes. Mol. Pharmacol. 1984 26 553 558.

18. Saito M. Yasumoto T. Kaneda T. Quantitative analyses of eritadenine in shiitake mushroom and other edible fungi. J. Jap. Soc. Food Nutr. 1975 28 503 513.

