---

title: Supply chain management
abstract: An interface to a transactional system of a trading partner provides electronic communications to at least one participant in a supply chain for a product or service provided by the trading partner. The interface provides the electronic communications in a common format used by an interface to the at least one participant's transactional system. The electronic communications include at least automated messages providing a current progress of the supply chain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160908&OS=08160908&RS=08160908
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08160908
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080821
---
The present disclosure is generally related to supply chain management and more particularly is related to automated supply chain management.

A problem in existence today is where individual organizations within a company work in silos or separate divisions and communications between organizations and external businesses such as suppliers are poor or do not exist.

One embodiment of an interface to a transactional system of a trading partner provides electronic communications to at least one participant in a supply chain for a product or service provided by the trading partner. The interface provides the electronic communications in a common format used by an interface to the at least one participant s transactional system. The electronic communications include at least automated messages providing a current progress of the supply chain.

One embodiment of an automated supply chain management method of the present disclosure comprises facilitating electronic communications between a trading partner and at least one participant in a supply chain for a product or service provided by the trading partner. The electronic communications are provided in a common format used by an interfaces to the at least one participant s transactional system and the trading partner s transactional system and the electronic communications comprise at least automated messages providing a current progress of the supply chain.

Other systems methods devices features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure automate end to end international supply chain management with a newly developed automated supply chain management platform. Generally a supply chain comprises the acts involved in providing a finished service or product to an end customer from a supplier. In providing this service one or more acts may actually be performed by more than one supplier. Supply chain management is an approach in managing or overseeing the performance of these acts. With the automated platform of the present disclosure evolution of a siloed business process to a fully automated end to end business process and platform is enabled where supply chain management is automatically provided. This provides an oversight of materials information and finances as these items move in a process from participants in the supply chain.

Business operations are improved with the exchange of business data and documents electronically. As an example a business to business B2B gateway provides means for external parties to exchange business data and documents with a company. Accordingly a B2B gateway may provide a comprehensive suite of technology that can be leveraged by different groups of an organization. The B2B gateway supports internal and external integration and business processes in order to provide a common platform in which to operate. In general a B2B gateway may include multiple components that can be implemented together and be integrated with various technologies such as Web Services SOAP simple object access protocol Java application programming interfaces etc. Further a variety of transport and security standards may be used including FTP file transfer protocol HTTP hypertext transfer protocol Web Services etc. The B2B gateway may enable communication services on multiple access application and or data platforms across a distributed communications infrastructure.

Referring now to a conceptual representation of a B2B gateway is depicted and is referred as an automated supply chain management gateway. As shown the automated supply chain management gateway can be accessed by an external company or trading partner internal company or trading partner and customer s . As an example businesses e.g. company often request another business e.g. company to supply a service. Further the other business e.g. company providing the service may be a global business providing the service internationally. Accordingly to provide a product or service to an end customer many different businesses may take part in providing the requested product or service from inception of the request to the receipt of the service product by the customer . Coordination of the activities of the different businesses in fulfilling the requested product service can be cumbersome. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure utilize logic to validate data both upstream to suppliers and downstream to customers in the end to end process via system automation while setting a benchmark for the establishment of company to company communications standards for multiple trading partners.

To illustrate one embodiment of the present disclosure addresses the mechanization via the automated supply chain management gateway for the following areas or functions identification of a trading partner such as a supplier by country in addition to other pertinent information such as offered technologies service capabilities and cost issue a service order and service order status and tracking . As an example order status and tracking may include proactive automatic statusing to the end customer fully automated testing of access circuit with pass fail status to the trading partner or supplier e.g. company and tracking of automatic jeopardy and completion status of major process milestones . The automated supply chain management gateway further includes functionality such as maintaining automatic circuit inventory established by country customer trading partner and technology mechanized receipt of partner invoices for validation against inventory automated payment authorization to financial systems for accounts payable and general ledger and automatic service trouble ticketing in partner and customer systems including automatic alarm notifications and customer trouble reporting. Within a company individual sub platforms or sub units maybe responsible for performing or handling of one or more areas described above as shown in . These units include service coverage and pricing access ordering customer order status auto testing work management supplier invoicing and trouble ticket tracking . The sub platforms or sub units e.g. network servers or software modules may be located within transactional systems of participants of the supply chain that interface with gateway in one embodiment.

In earlier systems an individual company may have interface applications that provide some of these services. However data or reports that are generated are limited to being consumed by the individual company s applications and are not available to be used by an external company such as a supplier of the individual company. With embodiments of the automated supply chain management gateway however the exchange of electronic communications between respective transactional systems of trading partners facilitates supply chain management. Further embodiments of the automated supply chain management gateway platform may encompass processing events or rules such as cascading operations that are processed based on occurrence of earlier operation s . For example a rule may take a defined action on a specific processing event.

As an example consider the following scenario involving the supplying of a telecommunications service to a customer site as depicted in . In this example a customer is being provided access to a communications network being provided by Company A. To provide this service the customer may be provided access to the Company A s network at a junction point e.g. a switch router multiplexer or other device at edge of Company A s network . It is noted that according to exemplary embodiments Company A does not provide the physical wiring to provide this access. Company B however is a local telephone company in the proximity of the customer that may be able to connect the customer to Company A s network. Therefore Company B can provide an access link e.g. wired or wireless circuit used to connect with Company A s network.

In accordance with the present disclosure Company A and Company B utilize interfaces respectively to communicate with an automated supply chain management gateway which is similar to gateway having a common platform. Each company also has transactional systems Company A Company B that perform business processes for the respective company. Therefore referring to both using the concepts of the gateway Company A may make an inquiry to Company B on whether Company B can provide an access line for the customer to Company A s network and at what cost and in what time frame. The inquiry is electronically sent from Company A to Company B using the automated supply chain management gateway platform over network communications such as the Internet. Accordingly Company B sends a response back to Company A using the automated supply chain management gateway platform.

Therefore using the automated supply chain management gateway platform Company A can identify a trading partner or supplier in a particular country that uses a particular technology at an acceptable cost that meets Company A s needs. Company A can send requests out to other trading partners that have adopted interfaces compliant with gateway standards and select a supplier that offers the best solution. And the lines of communication can be provided electronically in lieu of telephone calls as an example. Therefore Company A can electronically communicate with international companies and identify an access supplier and the supplier s service coverage and costs as an example.

After Company A identifies a trading partner e.g. Company B Company A can issue an order to Company B to provide the agreed upon service. In earlier systems this was typically done manually e.g. sent via email over phone fax regular mail visit the partner s website and fill out a form etc. . However using the automated supply chain management gateway the order can be issued electronically to company B. The order is received by Company B s interface to their system and contains details of the requested service.

In earlier systems information on what is happening with or a status of an order is not easily provided. Generally a call had to be made to a trading partner or an email has to be sent to verify that an order has been accepted and that service will be confirmed to be provided.

Using the automated supply chain management gateway platform after an order is issued to Company B Company A can request status updates from Company B. This is accomplished using the common platform utilized by the respective interfaces. Accordingly the automated supply chain management gateway platform may be characterized by status reports being provided in response to new updates such as an update made on a service order.

Further once certain milestones are reached status reports may be automatically sent from Company B to Company A in accordance with a defined supply chain workflow. Therefore once the order is accepted a status report may be sent to Company A. The status report may specify that the scheduled installation date for the service has changed from the initial date of May 30to June 5. This may all automatically reported based on the issuance of the initial order.

Additional status or tracking reports may also be generated. For example when the trading partner has finished a design for the scheduled service a report may be automatically generated and electronically sent to Company A. This may be of importance to Company A to let the company know that the partner has the necessary design.

Further when the trading partner Company B has installed the customer s equipment at a local central office a status report may be sent to Company A. This may be another important milestone for Company A. The status report is sent electronically in accordance with the automated supply chain management gateway without the need for telephone dialogue.

Additionally the underlying platform of an interface to the automated supply chain management gateway may allow for forwarding of the status report to a responsible party such as a sales representative or the customer itself. For example Company A may receive a status report and then relay the report to a desired party over different types of methodologies such as email telephone call voice mail message etc. Each interface to the gateway platform may have such capabilities as part of a common platform.

Another important milestone in completion of the service by the trading partner is installation of the service at the customer s location. Upon generation and receipt of such a status report by Company A the interface used by Company A may automatically test the installed service. For example a testing signal can be sent over the installed line to the customer s location and returned to Company A. If the installed service is successfully tested Company A can automatically accept the service performed by the trading partner Company B and inform the partner that they may bill Company A for the service. This is all done without any technicians being dispatched or having to be online. Rather it is an automatic function of the automated supply chain management gateway platform.

Further if testing of the service fails Company A can automatically and electronically notify Company B of the failure. This may allow Company B to fix the problem and then re notify Customer A of the next milestone e.g. service is completed . Company A may then automatically test the service and report the results back to Company B using the automated supply chain management gateway .

Once Company A accepts service from Company B Company A may automatically notify the end customer of the completed service by Company A and ask the end customer to accept service over the platform. Further the customer may be notified of when to expect billing for the service.

From inception of the service request to Company A to completion of the service by Company A minimal human intervention is involved in issuing the order tracking the order and reporting in the above described embodiment. The automated supply chain management gateway platform is designed to automatically perform such actions.

Additional actions performed under the platform include generation of billing invoices. While today bills for services are provided in many different mediums including paper attachment in email CDROM via postal mail website in accordance with the present disclosure the automated supply chain management gateway platform provides for acceptance of invoices electronically by respective interfaces. After receipt of invoice by the interface of Company A the interface and related applications may input the invoice where the invoice is authenticated validated and payment is authorized electronically. Therefore the trading partner or supplier may receive payment in a short turnaround after the invoice is sent from the trading partner.

An additional function of the automated supply chain management gateway platform is trouble reporting. For example a common function of the interface to automated supply chain management gateway platform is trouble ticketing . Here a customer or other interested party can place a request for service or maintenance electronically. The request is referred as a trouble ticket. The trouble ticket is dispersed to a responsible party that attempts to isolate where the problem resides. It may be that the problem resides on the trading partner s Company B network or equipment. If this is the case Company A can automatically send the trouble ticket to Company B s interface where Company B will input the ticket into their trouble ticket system. Accordingly Company B may investigate the problem clear the trouble and report that the problem is fixed to Company A.

Company A may then automatically test the network equipment upon a report that the problem is fixed. If Company A verifies the remedy Company A may automatically authorize the trading partner to clear the trouble ticket. Further Company A can automatically notify a responsible party such as the sales representative or end customer that the trouble is cleared.

Accordingly validation verification and synchronization between internal functional databases of a company e.g. Company A and external databases such as from trading partners or suppliers e.g. Company B help provide identification of a low cost supplier shortened servicing cycle time decreased human intervention decreased defects and rework decreased cost of servicing increased profit margin and high value to both a trading partner and customer.

Referring now to a diagram is shown of some among others of the business processes facilitated by an embodiment of the automated supply chain management gateway . These are the same processes previously described with respect to .

It is noted that individual processes may be implemented or deployed by an individual trading partner. For example the process of identifying a supplier is shown as being implemented by an internal process with respect to a trading partner. This trading partner and its business systems also implement the processes of issuing a service order maintaining inventory receiving invoices and making payments . An external process performed by another trading partner is shown to be the process of tracking order status while the process involving trouble ticketing may be performed by both internally and externally by the respective trading partners. This serves to show that different trading partners may be involved in different processes that constitute the functionality of an embodiment of the automated supply chain management gateway . Further trading partners may utilize existing siloed systems solutions and expand them for a full end to end solution represented by the automated supply chain management gateway . A respective interface to the gateway may convert the language used by the respective business into language accepted by the gateway . Accordingly the automated supply chain management gateway establishes functions that are to be understood and performed by interfaces utilizing the gateway framework.

The automated supply chain management gateway platform interface can be implemented in software e.g. firmware hardware or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the automated supply chain management gateway system is implemented in software as an executable program and is executed by a special or general purpose digital computer such as a personal computer PC IBM compatible Apple compatible or otherwise workstation minicomputer or mainframe computer. An example of a general purpose computer that can implement the automated supply chain management gateway platform interface of the present disclosure is shown in . In the automated supply chain management gateway platform interface is denoted by reference numeral .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture as shown in the computer includes a processor memory and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals that are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software particularly that stored in memory . The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computer a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80x86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory includes the automated supply chain management gateway interface in accordance with the present disclosure and a suitable operating system O S . A nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system controls the execution of other computer programs such as the automated supply chain management gateway interface and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

In one embodiment the automated supply chain management gateway interface is a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program then the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the O S . Furthermore the automated supply chain management gateway interface can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java and Ada.

The I O devices may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc.

If the computer is a PC workstation or the like the software in the memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the O S and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the computer is activated.

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the computer pursuant to the software. The automated supply chain management gateway interface and the O S in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the automated supply chain management gateway interface is implemented in software as is shown in it should be noted that the automated supply chain management gateway interface can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The automated supply chain management gateway interface can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical .

In an alternative embodiment where the automated supply chain management gateway interface is implemented in hardware the automated supply chain management gateway interface can implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The flow chart of shows the architecture functionality and operation of an exemplary implementation of the automated supply chain management gateway of the present disclosure. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession in may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

In electronic communications are facilitated between a trading partner and at least one participant in a supply chain for a product or service provided by the trading partner. The electronic communications are provided in a common format used by interfaces to the at least one participant s transactional system and the trading partner s transactional system. The electronic communications comprise at least automated messages providing a current progress of the supply chain. Accordingly the electronic communications facilitate operations performed in the supply chain. The operations include identifying a potential participant in the supply chain issuing of a service order to the identified participant and tracking status of the service order. The operations further include receiving an invoice for services performed by the identified participant making automatic authorization of payment of the invoice and handling a trouble ticket received from a participant in the supply chain.

In one embodiment the aforementioned operations include operations performed by the trading partner s transactional system and operations performed by the at least one participant s transactional system. Further completion of an operation by the participant s transactional system within the supply chain automatically initiates an operation being performed by the trading partner s transactional system within the supply chain.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the present disclosure without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

