---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring a computer system for malicious software
abstract: A method and apparatus for monitoring a computer system for malicious software is provided. The method for monitoring malicious software proliferation includes processing a deceptive contact address associated with a monitoring device and inserting the deceptive contact address into a contact list, wherein malicious software self-propagates through the contact list, wherein the monitoring device receives a copy of the malicious software through the deceptive contact address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08789185&OS=08789185&RS=08789185
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08789185
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080915
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a computer system security and more particularly to a method and apparatus for monitoring a computer system to detect self propagating malicious software.

Malicious software programs e.g. virus Trojans and the like are designed to disrupt normal activities within a computing environment for a large organization. For example the malicious software programs corrupt mission critical data and or render unusable one or more computer hardware devices. As a result the large organization experiences a substantial loss in productivity. Furthermore a significant amount of time and money is spent to recover any lost data. Accordingly the malicious software programs threaten the potential growth of the large organization and affect the usability of the computing environment.

Viruses are common forms of the malicious software programs. Generally a virus is usually an unauthorized block of an executable program or some unit of code e.g. instructions to which the computer responds such as a code block code element or code segment that may be attached to other programs and or files. Sometimes the virus is received through a file attached to an email an Instant Message IM and or a similar message exchanged through communication software. Once executed the viruses spread quickly by attaching themselves to various resources and infecting computer programs. Further the viruses self propagate by sending a copy of itself to each of the contacts in an address book.

The number of new viruses and variants of existing viruses is increasing at such a higher pace that it has become difficult for existing anti virus systems to keep pace with the release of new viruses. There is a very small window of opportunity to respond to a new virus. Furthermore conventional techniques of virus detection are unable to quickly recognize new viruses. As a result the viruses cause unrecoverable damages to the computing environment.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for an efficient method and apparatus for monitoring a computer system to detect and prevent new self propagating viruses.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a method and apparatus for monitoring a computer system for malicious software. In one embodiment the method for monitoring malicious software proliferation comprising processing a deceptive contact address associated with a monitoring device and inserting the deceptive contact address into a contact list wherein malicious software self propagates through the contact list wherein the monitoring device receives a copy of the malicious software through the deceptive contact address.

The user computer is a type of computing device e.g. laptop desktop a mobile phone Personal Digital Assistant PDA such as those generally known in the art. The user computer includes a Central Processing Unit CPU various support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers which facilitate data processing and storage. The CPU executes software stored in the memory . The support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and comprise at least one of clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory includes at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and the like. The memory further includes various data such as contact information . The memory further includes various software packages such as communication software and security software . The security software may include various anti malware security applications such as SYMANTEC Norton Anti Virus.

The contact information may include one or more contact lists that store contact addresses of various computing devices e.g. computers operated by friends or people associated with a user . According to an embodiment of the present invention a deceptive contact address is inserted into the one or more contact lists. For example the deceptive contact address may be added as a new contact for Instant Messenger software e.g. YAHOO messenger GTalk and or the like . The deceptive contact address may include an identifier for the monitoring device such as a phone number an email address an internet protocol IP address a unique username specific to the particular communication application and or the like .

The communication software may include various communication applications such as AOL Instant Messenger MSN Messenger YAHOO Messenger MICROSOFT Outlook and or the like. Each communication application running on the user computer may use a specific contact list. As such the user may communicate with a computing device through several contact addresses. Furthermore each communication application may provide an interface for adding modifying replacing and or deleting one or more contact addresses within the specific contact list. As an example the interface may be a COM interface or an Application Programming Interface API library.

The illicit computer is a computing device and a source for malicious software proliferation. The illicit computer executes malicious software to disrupt activities at the user computer . Upon execution the malicious software infects the user computer . In one embodiment the malicious software includes various malicious software programs e.g. viruses Trojans and or the like . The illicit computer may be not be aware of the malicious software in that it is merely passing on an infection it has itself incurred. Further the illicit computer may be used by a hacker to spread the malicious software throughout the system .

The monitoring device is configured to detect and or capture the malicious software through the deceptive contact address . In one embodiment the monitoring device detects the malicious software based on data received through the deceptive contact address . Since the deceptive contact address is only used to communicate with the monitoring device any data e.g. e mail instant messages and or the like received at the monitoring device is most likely associated with proliferation of the malicious software . In one embodiment the monitoring device communicates the received data to the backend system for further analysis.

The backend system is a type of computing device e.g. a server that includes a Central Processing Unit CPU various support circuits and a memory . The memory includes a contact address generator . In one embodiment the monitoring device cooperates with the backend system to analyze a copy of the malicious software that is received from the user computer through the deceptive contact address . For example the monitoring device communicates a copy of the malicious software to the backend system. Then the backend system determines whether the malicious software is a new self propagating malicious software program. For example if a virus does not have a definition or if the security software is unable to identify the virus then the virus is most likely new and or unknown. Accordingly the backend system may provide a definition and or one or more signatures e.g. code based or activity based signatures through a subscription service e.g. an update to the security software .

In operation the security software is configured to store the deceptive contact address in the contact information . In one embodiment the security software uses an interface provided by the communication software to perform various functions for the deceptive contact address . For example the security software uses the interface to insert i.e. add the deceptive contact address to the contact information . Furthermore the security software uses the interface to modify the deceptive contact address . In addition the security software uses the interface to replace the deceptive contact address with another deceptive contact address e.g. an email address having a different domain name .

The contact address generator is configured to create the deceptive contact address that is non deterministic for the purpose of detecting the malicious software . In one embodiment the deceptive contact address is used to acquire a copy of the new self propagating malicious software programs. In one embodiment the deceptive contact address may include a domain name that is associated with the security software e.g. a SYMANTEC domain . In one embodiment the domain name used for the deceptive contact address is changed on a periodic basis to prevent detection and ensure effectiveness. In one embodiment the contact address generator communicates the deceptive contact address to the security software for storage in the contact information . According to an embodiment of the present invention the deceptive contact address includes an identifier e.g. an email address a phone number a unique username and or the like which is associated with the communication software . As such the security software inserts the identifier into the contact information .

In one embodiment the deceptive contact address may include an email address that represents a location of the monitoring device . For example the email address may be associated with a SYMANTEC domain. Moreover the email address may identify a mailbox that belongs to a SYMANTEC Response group. In another embodiment the email address may be selected at random from a plurality of email addresses that represent the location of the monitoring device . Furthermore the email address is selected at random in order to remain non deterministic and thus deceive the malicious software .

The deceptive contact address may also be provided by the contact address generator through a subscription service e.g. SYMANTEC anti virus products . In another embodiment one or more email address may be selected e.g. randomly from a list of email addresses which are shipped along with the security software . According to an embodiment of the present invention the deceptive contact address is dynamically changed during LiveUpdate of SYMANTEC NORTON Anti virus software to prevent hackers or the malicious software from detecting the deceptive contact address . In other words if the deceptive contact address is changed periodically then malicious software programmers are less likely to associate the deceptive contact address with the monitoring device . During the LiveUpdate one or more new email addresses are downloaded to replace the previous email addresses. Further a domain name used in the deceptive contact address may be changed to reduce a probability of detection by the malicious software programmers.

According to various embodiments of the present invention a virus may be introduced into the system from the illicit computer via an e mail attachment a security breach of the firewall server a removable media introduced by the user or in some other way. When the virus infects the user computer the virus retrieves the contact information and sends a copy of itself to each of the contact addresses including the deceptive contact address . As such a copy the virus is sent to and captured at the monitoring device . Subsequently the monitoring device sends the copy of the virus to the backend system for further processing.

The network comprises a communication system that connects a computer system by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless link facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The network may employ various well known protocols to communicate information amongst the network resources. For example the network may be a part of the internet or intranet using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet WiFi WiMax General Packet Radio Service GPRS and the like.

At a step a deceptive contact address that identifies the monitoring device is selected. At a step the contact list of the user in the contact information is accessed. At a step the deceptive contact address generated at the step is inserted into the contact list. The step of the method further proceeds to a step at which a determination is made as to whether more contact lists exist. If the determination is made that more contact lists exist Option YES then the step returns to the step . If the determination is made that no more contact lists exist Option NO then the step ends at a step . At step the method ends.

At a step a copy of the malicious software is received through the deceptive contact address. At a step the copy of malicious software is analyzed. The analysis of the malicious software may be performed at a back end server according to one embodiment. At step a determination is made as to whether the malicious software is new. If it is determined that the malicious software program is new then the method proceeds to step . At step the copy of the malicious software is communicated. For example the copy of the malicious software may be communicated to a facility where signatures are to be created to prevent the proliferation of the malicious software. If it is determined that the malicious software program is not new then the method proceeds to step . The step of the method proceeds to step where the method ends.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

