---

title: Web services enabled device and browser gadgets coupled with data storage service and web portal
abstract: A method of presenting structured information, via software gadgets, based on monitored data in a utility monitoring system. First monitored data is exposed to a network to produce, via a first web service, first structured data. The first monitored data is indicative of utility characteristics measured by a first IED in the utility monitoring system. The first structured data is received over the network and second structured data is received from a network-accessible data storage service. The data storage service has a second web service that exposes second monitored data to produce the second structured data. The first structured data is manipulated, in at least one of the software gadgets, to produce structured information based on the first monitored data, and the structured information is communicated from the at least one software gadget to a web browser for display in a web page by the web browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429267&OS=08429267&RS=08429267
owner: Schneider Electric USA, Inc.
number: 08429267
owner_city: Palatine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080630
---
The present invention relates generally to presenting information in a web browser and in particular to using software gadgets to present structured information based on monitored data in a utility monitoring system as well as from historicized monitored data from a data storage service.

Utility systems such as an electrical utility system are monitored by a network of intelligent electronic devices IEDs coupled to a computer for monitoring various parameters or characteristics of the electrical utility system. The network of IEDs and the computer are typically referred to collectively as a power monitoring system. Power monitoring systems require software to be installed on the computer with appropriate hard drive storage and communications established to the IEDs. Supporting and deploying software solutions globally is a tremendous challenge as the vendor must design for and test numerous installation and upgrade scenarios. These scenarios can include different operating system versions different operating system languages performance computer specifications storage space processor speed memory etc. .

Current technology cannot advantageously provide a total system view of the utility monitoring system as the current technology limits the user interface to accessing only one IP address of a web enabled IED at a time. Moreover users cannot presently view information from more than one web enabled IED without navigating to multiple web pages thus complicating and frustrating the user s experience.

Typically the IED s monitored data is read by the software installed on the computer and in turn stored on the computer for local analysis and reporting. This model can be very problematic due to the storage and processing requirements of the software overwhelming the available storage and processing capabilities of the computer. Thus the Total Cost of Ownership TCO of even a simple system can be relatively high.

Other approaches to this TCO problem have relied upon the software installed on the computer to communicate directly with the IEDs and leverage only the monitored data stored within the IED. While this approach reduces the storage requirement TCO issue other issues still remain that keep the TCO level too high for the value being provided to the users. For example IEDs have a limited amount of available memory and a fraction of what storage is available in a computer. The cost to add physical memory is very high due to hardware costs and potential redesign. Even with the price of memory decreasing annually the cost to retrofit IEDs in the field with the additional memory is usually cost prohibitive to do so.

What is needed is a solution that allows for a utility monitoring system to be deployed with minimal requirements of the user s computer while providing a robust set of features and supporting the long term reporting analysis needs of users. What is also needed is a solution that allows for an entry level utility monitoring solution to be deployed and supported globally using a web browser IEDs and a TCP IP connection. Aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are directed to addressing solving these and other needs.

Aspects of this disclosure use software gadgets sometimes called widgets to gather and mine monitored data from multiple monitoring devices that may themselves lack the capability to publish their data to an TCP IP network. The gadgets communicate with IP compatible web services that pull real time data from the IEDs which may be connected via legacy connections such as Modbus or historical data stored on a remote data storage service. An important aspect is that all of the web services are IP compatible and produce data in a common structured format preferably XML rendering it easier to query any type of IED regardless of whatever communication protocol it uses. The web browser can be any web browser that displays the software gadgets and can run on any operating system platform. An important aspect is the ability of the software gadgets to receive real time data from the IEDs via a gateway or Ethernet enabled IED and historical data or real time data from a data storage service wherein the gateway Ethernet enabled IED and data storage service expose the monitored data via IP compatible web services. By imposing a gateway or Ethernet enabled IED between the gadget and the IEDs the system can support a wide range of IED capabilities from legacy IEDs with very basic communication capability to more sophisticated Ethernet enabled IEDs. The software gadgets have knowledge about the devices they are interrogating for their data which facilitates a system level view or perspective of the user s facility.

The aspects disclosed herein avoid the need to develop specialized gadgets that communicate using proprietary communication protocols with a variety of IEDs that are commonly found in any given user s facility. It is common for a user s facility to include a combination of IEDs having varying levels of capabilities and using different communications protocols some of which may be proprietary depending upon the application for which the IED is needed within the user s facility or site. The data from all capable IEDs capable in the sense that they have some ability to communicate their data to another system is exposed by IP compatible web services such that the software gadgets only need to connect to the web services which transmit the requested data from the IEDs to the requesting software gadget.

The data storage service is an Internet hosted storage system that can be remote from the customer s site or one located within a customer s firewall. Not only can the software gadgets pull real time data from web services associated with the IEDs but they can also pull real time or historical data from the data storage service via an IP compatible web service. This ability to provide a historical perspective is invaluable for end users who need to mine aged data to troubleshoot an event predict future events or manage their facility efficiently and effectively.

The software gadgets can be hosted on a widget library over the Internet. They can be purchased and downloaded by a user via the web browser and stored locally in the user s computer in the gateway an Ethernet enabled IED or a proxy server. New gadgets can simply be uploaded to the customer s web portal for access by multiple users.

According to some aspects a method of presenting structured information via software gadgets based on monitored data in a utility monitoring system includes exposing first monitored data to a network to produce via a first web service first structured data. The first monitored data is indicative of characteristics of a utility measured by a first intelligent electronic device IED in the utility monitoring system. The method further includes receiving the first structured data over the network and receiving second structured data from a network accessible data storage service. The network accessible data storage service has a second web service that exposes second monitored data to produce the second structured data. The second monitored data is indicative of characteristics of the utility measured by a second IED. The method further includes manipulating in at least one of the software gadgets the first structured data to produce structured information based on the first monitored data and communicating the structured information from the at least one software gadget to a web browser for display in a web page by the web browser.

According to some aspects a system for presenting structured information via software gadgets based on monitored data in a utility monitoring system includes a device a gadget library and a network accessible data storage service. The device includes a first web service programmed to expose to a network first monitored data indicative of characteristics of a utility measured by a first intelligent electronic device IED in the utility monitoring system to produce first structured data. The gadget library stores a plurality of software gadgets at least one of the plurality of software gadgets is configured to connect over the network to the first web service to receive therefrom the first structured data. The network accessible data storage service is communicatively coupled to the device. The data storage service is configured to receive second monitored data indicative of characteristics of the utility measured by a second IED. The data storage service includes a second web service to expose the second monitored data to produce second structured data that is network compatible. The at least one of the plurality of software gadgets is configured to connect to the second web service to receive the second structured data manipulate the first structured data or the second structured data or both to produce corresponding structured information and communicate the structured information to a web browser for display in a web page by the web browser.

The foregoing and additional aspects and embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the detailed description of various embodiments and or aspects which is made with reference to the drawings a brief description of which is provided next.

Although the invention will be described in connection with certain aspects and or embodiments it will be understood that the invention is not limited to those particular aspects and or embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalent arrangements as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Turning now to a system for presenting structured information via software gadgets is generally shown. The system includes a customer site an internet portal and an internet data storage service .

The customer site includes a plurality of intelligent electronic devices IED and a web browser running on a computer e.g. computer of in the customer site. The combination of the plurality of IEDs comprises a utility monitoring system for monitoring for example electrical characteristics such as voltage current power harmonics and the like of an electrical utility. The monitoring generates monitored data within the IEDs and the monitored data is indicative of characteristics of the utility measured by the IEDs . The plurality of IEDs are coupled to the web browser over a network e.g. customer network of and the IEDs are coupled to the web browser via a gateway . The IEDs can be serial IEDs e.g. IEDs that communicate according to a serial communications protocol such as Modbus or Ethernet enabled IEDs e.g. IED or a combination of both types of IEDs. The serial IEDs connect to the network through a gateway . The Ethernet enabled IED connects directly to the network without needing an external gateway. An example of a suitable gateway is the EGX400 Ethernet Gateway available from Square D Company based in Palatine Ill.

As mentioned above each IED measures characteristics of the utility system and quantifies these characteristics into monitored data that can be analyzed by a computer. For example the monitoring device can measure power energy or other characteristics of electricity. In the electrical context the IED may be based on a PowerLogic Series 3000 4000 Circuit Monitor or a PowerLogic ION7550 7650 Power and Energy Meter available from Schneider Electric or any other suitable IED device such as a microprocessor based circuit breaker relay metering device or power meter. The utility can be any one of WAGES including water air gas electricity steam and weather. In the illustrated aspects herein the utility is electricity and the monitoring system is a power monitoring system but the aspects disclosed herein can be applied to any other monitored utilities.

The gateway includes embedded web services . Similarly the Ethernet enabled IED includes embedded web services . Generally web services correspond to software designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. In some aspects the web services include Web Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be accessed over a network e.g. a LAN or the Internet and executed on a remote system hosting requested services. Specifically the web services expose the monitored data from the IEDs to the network to which the web services are connected. The exposed monitored data can be real time data from an IED or historical data previously buffered from an IED. The contents of the monitored data may include but are not limited to characteristics of electricity such as current values voltage values and power values and records such as event records power quality waveform captures alarm records setup functions or any combination thereof. The monitored data can be stored and or buffered in a memory of the IEDs in a memory of the gateway in a memory of a remote server or in any combination thereof. The web services also convert the monitored data into structured data. The structured data is a decoupled version of the monitored data presented in a structured format such as XML or JSON.

The web browser displays structured information which is based on the monitored data. Generally the web browser enables a user to display and interact with text images videos music and other information on a web page . Specifically the web page displays software gadgets that the user can interact with in various ways. For example the user can edit copy duplicate delete move rearrange or setup any particular software gadget displayed in the web browser . In some aspects the user can create or download additional software gadgets for interaction within the web browser or remove existing software gadgets from the web page . The software gadgets disclosed herein can be a technical support gadget users can click on an object displayed by the software gadget to be connected to a technical support representative via a voice over IP connection who has the ability to view the data from the user s IEDs or structured information from any software gadget in the user s web browser a data backup gadget the user can backup monitored data onto an external backup storage a graphical display gadget a gadget that controls how other gadgets are to be laid out or displayed on the web page a report gadget a gadget that displays a report of manipulated data associated with an IED or a trend gadget a gadget that displays trending data associated with an IED to name a few. The software gadgets themselves can be made available for purchase or the content or analysis performed by the software gadget can be made available for purchase. For example if the user desires to perform a power quality waveform capture this type of analysis can be purchased by the user via a software gadget. The software gadgets can be written in a JavaScript scripting language or any other web browser compatible technology.

The software gadgets are stored in a computer e.g. computer of that hosts the web browser . When the user accesses the web page at least some of the locally stored software gadgets are automatically available to the user. According to some aspects the software gadgets can automatically discover and or connect to any capable IED in the utility monitoring system. In these aspects the addition to or removal of an IED from the utility monitoring system does not negatively affect the system and or operation of the software gadgets .

In addition to auto discovery of IEDs a user can enter a setup mode of a software gadget e.g. software gadget . Within the setup mode the user can point that software gadget to a specific IED e.g. IED or to two or more IEDs e.g. IEDs and connected to the system by entering the IP address es or URI uniform resource identifier of the desired IED or IEDs. As shown in the software gadgets specifically connect with the web services of the Ethernet enabled IED and of the gateway respectively. Once the software gadget is pointed to one or more IEDs the software gadget can receive the structured data corresponding to the monitored data from the addressed IED through the web services and manipulate the structured data to produce the structured information which is based on the monitored data. By structured information it is meant that the information is presented in a structured format preferably XML and the information has been manipulated from the structured data also preferably formatted in XML corresponding to the monitored data. Examples of structured information include tabular displays tabulating the monitored data or charts or graphs depicting the monitored data in a graphical format. By manipulate it is meant that at a minimum the structured data is converted to corresponding structured information. More sophisticated or expert manipulation such as analysis of the structured data to provide predictive or preventative information to the user regarding the monitored data is also contemplated. By way of another example manipulate can include calculating a value such as power from voltage and current data received from an IED.

In some aspects the web page displays four software gadgets The first second and third software gadgets and connect with the web services of the gateway to receive the structured data which is derived from the monitored data measured by the IEDs respectively. The fourth software gadget connects with the web services of the Ethernet enabled IED to receive the structured data which is derived from the monitored data measured by the Ethernet enabled IED . Alternatively one of the software gadgets can connect with multiple web services. For example the software gadget can connect with the web services of the Ethernet enabled IED and the web services of the gateway to receive the structured data derived from the monitored data generated within the plurality of IEDs . Various other amounts and combinations of the software gadgets and the IEDs are contemplated.

According to some aspects the software gadgets can be stored in the computer hosting the web browser in one of the plurality of IEDs or in a local server in a remote server in an internet portal or in any combination thereof. For example the software gadgets can be stored in a gadget sever as illustrated in .

Referring back to the internet portal of the internet portal provides at least one function and or service via a web page. The internet portal can function as a point of access to specific information over a network such as the Internet. The internet portal can also be referred to as a web portal or more generally as a specialized web page or web site. The internet portal serves as a centralized resource for the user of the web browser to obtain various programs applications services and or software gadgets. As shown in the user of the web browser can access a gadget library and or expert services . To access the gadget library for example over the Internet the user connects to the internet portal s IP address and selects a software gadget for download. In some aspects the user can download the software gadget for free or alternatively the user may have to pay for the download. The user can download the software gadget to the user s local computer e.g. computer of to one of the plurality of IEDs to a server e.g. proxy server of or to any other device coupled to the network e.g. customer network of . In other aspects through the web browser the user can execute and display a particular software gadget from the gadget library without having to download the software gadget.

The internet data storage service includes an on line data store and web services . The internet data storage service is connected to the customer site over the Internet. In other aspects the internet data storage service can be a data storage service located locally within the customer site e.g. data storage service of . The web services of the Ethernet enabled IED and the gateway are configured to expose the monitored data to the network and the web services of the on line data store is configured to extract that monitored data from the structured data produced by the web services . Specifically the on line data store receives structured data which is derived from the monitored data generated within the plurality of IEDs and . According to some aspects the IEDs and regularly send the monitored data to the internet data storage service for storage. Alternatively only one or more IEDs send monitored data to the internet data storage service regularly or at predetermined intervals.

In some aspects a software gadget e.g. software gadget can automatically discover available web services of a data storage service or the software gadget can be pointed through the setup mode to a data storage service as described above. As illustrated in the software gadgets connect with the web services of the on line data store. Once the software gadgets are connected with or pointed to the internet data storage service the software gadgets can receive the structured data being stored therein and manipulate that structured data to produce structured information. The structured data exposed by the web services is the same structured data received by the web services over the network e.g. customer network of from the web services of the Ethernet enabled IED and the gateway respectively. Alternatively the web services can expose monitored data being stored therein to the network. Once requested the web services can convert the monitored data into structured data for transmission to the requester e.g. software gadget .

Now turning to a functional block diagram of the system illustrates the connections among the various components of the system . The system includes the customer site . The customer site is connected to an external network which is the Internet. The network provides a communication path between the customer site and various external services servers web sites web pages etc. Specifically the network provides a communication path between the customer site and the gadget library the expert services and the internet data storage service all of which are described above in relation to . The physical link between the customer site and the network is a customer network . The customer network is the backbone of the customer site providing a physical means of interconnection between the various components of the customer site . Specifically the customer site physically includes various components including but not limited to the plurality of IEDs and the gateway a computer and an optional data storage service where the customer network provides the backbone for connecting all of the above. The customer network is typically a private or public local area network LAN . Other types of customer networks are contemplated.

The gateway includes the web services firmware and a memory . According to some aspects the memory of the gateway can store one or more software gadgets . In these aspects the gateway acts as a web server that posts the structured information to an embedded web page hosted by the gateway . The user can view the embedded web page on the web browser and manipulate the software gadgets therein. Alternatively the user can download the software gadgets from the gateway to the computer to be executed locally there. In these alternative aspects the computer hosts the software gadgets and can point a particular software gadget to one of the plurality of IEDs and within the customer site .

The data storage service is similar to the internet data storage service described above however the data storage service is located within the customer site . The data storage service can be optionally connected to the customer network to add additional storage for long term storage of historical type monitored data. For example the IEDs do not typically contain a large amount of memory. Thus these IEDs can be configured to periodically transmit all or some of their monitored data e.g. historical data to the gateway which converts the monitored data into structured data via the web services which puts the corresponding structured data onto the customer network . The web services of the data storage service is configured to receive the structured data derived from the monitored data of the IEDs and store the same. As described above in relation to the internet data storage service the software gadgets can connect with the web services of the data storage service . Once the software gadgets are connected with or pointed to the data storage service the software gadgets can receive the structured data through the web services and manipulate that structured data to produce structured information.

In some aspects there are no software gadgets within the customer site . In these aspects the user can download one or more software gadgets from the gadget library . The user can log into the gadget library using an login name and a password. Once logged into the gadget library the user can download software gadgets on the computer the gateway the Ethernet enabled IED and or a server e.g. proxy server of for use in producing structured information based on the monitored data derived in the IEDs of the customer site .

Now turning to a system for presenting structured information via software gadgets is generally shown. The system includes a customer site an internet portal and an internet data storage service . differs from in that introduces a proxy server between the web browser and the web services of the web compatible devices connected to the IEDs. The proxy server is preferred in systems where the IEDs are scattered across multiple IP domains.

The internet portal and the internet data storage service are similar to or the same as the internet portal and the internet data storage service of system . Specifically the internet portal includes a gadget library and expert services . The internet data storage service includes an on line data store and web services . The web services communicate with the customer site in the same manner as the web services communicate with the customer site .

The customer site is similar to the customer site except the customer site includes a portal gadget server web proxy proxy server . The proxy server can also be referred to as a web proxy. A user of a web browser manipulates software gadgets in a web page . In some aspects the user requests that a particular software gadget e.g. software gadget connect to one or more IEDs e.g. IED IED to receive structured data through the web services e.g. web services of a gateway . In other words the user sends a request to the IED via the gateway for the structured data corresponding to the monitored data of the IED. This request for structured data first passes through the proxy server which then forwards the request to the web services of the gateway .

In some aspects the user requests structured data from more than one IED. For example the user can request structured data to be manipulated in software gadget from IED and Ethernet enabled IED . In this example a single request for structured data is sent to the proxy server . The proxy server then forwards the request onto the web services of the gateway and onto web services of the Ethernet enabled IED . The respective web services receive the request and transmit the requested structured data to the proxy server which forwards the structured data to the requesting user for manipulation in the software gadget

In addition to forwarding requests in some aspects the proxy server can also act as a content filter to provide administrative control over the content that may be relayed through the proxy server . In these aspects the proxy server can filter out certain unacceptable content. The proxy server can also support user authentication to control access to for example the structured data. Use of the proxy server is beneficial in systems e.g. system that might suffer from cross domain scripting vulnerability or cross site scripting vulnerability. For example if the system contains IEDs in different domains the addition of the proxy server adds security to the customer site .

Now turning to a functional block diagram of the system illustrates the connections among the various components of the system . The system includes the customer site . The customer site is connected to network which is the Internet. The network provides a communication path between the customer site and the gadget library the expert services and the internet data storage service all of which are described above in relation to . The physical link between the customer site and the network is a customer network . The customer network is the same as or similar to the customer network of system .

The proxy server is connected between the customer network and a computer . The computer hosts the web browser which displays the web page . In addition to connecting to the proxy server the computer directly connects to the customer network . Alternatively the computer can be solely connected to the customer network through the proxy server . It is contemplated that in some aspects the proxy server can be connected to a plurality of computers.

Requests for structured data are sent from the software gadgets displayed on the web browser via the computer . These requests pass through the proxy server and are forwarded over the customer network to specific devices e.g. the gateway the Ethernet enabled IED . Specifically these requests are received by the web services of the gateway and or the Ethernet enabled IED . The web services transmit the structured data over the customer network to the proxy server . The proxy server receives this structured data and forwards the structured data to one or more requesting software gadgets for manipulation into structured information. Requests for structured data can also be forwarded over the network to the internet data storage service which transmits data in the same or similar manner as internet data storage service . Similarly requests for structured data can be forwarded over the customer network and received in web services of a data storage service .

In some aspects the proxy server functions also as a gadget server for hosting one or more software gadgets . The software gadgets can be preloaded downloaded and or manually loaded into the proxy server . Alternatively the software gadgets can be hosted on the computer the gadget library the gateway or another server on the customer network or the network . From the computer the user can access and point software gadgets in the proxy server to one or more IEDs the internet data storage service the data storage service or any combination thereof. For example the user views the structured information presented by software gadgets stored on the proxy server as text and or graphics in the web page . The software gadgets can automatically discover the IEDs and data storage service on the customer network and or the network e.g. internet data storage service . Additionally the user can manually point one or more of the software gadgets to the IEDs and data storage services in the system . Once the one or more software gadgets are setup the software gadgets can receive the structured data derived from the monitored data and manipulate that structured data to produce structured information.

Now turning to a web browser is shown according to some aspects. The web browser is the same as or similar to the web browsers . The web browser displays a web page containing four software gadgets . The user accesses the web page by conventionally inserting the IP address or URI of the hosting computer into the web browser . The web browser loads the web page according to a user s customized viewing system. The customized viewing system is a custom arrangement and organization of a variety of software gadgets. The customized viewing system as shown in can include two software gadgets on the left half of the web page displaying real time load current summaries and two software gadgets on the right half of the web page displaying historical demand summaries for example. Various other customized viewing systems are contemplated based on the user s needs and desires as related to utility monitoring.

The software gadgets are each pointed to a different IED in the illustrated example. Alternatively any of the software gadgets can be pointed to two or more of the same or different IEDs. To point a software gadget to one or more IEDs the user selects the setup button on a software gadget of interest. For example the user can select the setup button of the software gadget and point the software gadget to the IP address or URI corresponding to IED . Similarly the software gadget as shown is pointed to IED the software gadget is pointed to IED and the software gadget is pointed to IED . Once the software gadgets are setup they can receive and manipulate structured data derived from respective monitored data measured by the IEDs . Specifically the software gadgets can analyze the structured data to produce structured information. The structured information is preferably in an XML format that is interpreted by the web browser and displayed to a user for viewing and or further manipulation.

The software gadgets also includes a refresh button . The refresh button allows the user to refresh the data shown in a particular software gadget. For example the user can press the refresh button of software gadget to cause the software gadget to receive new and or additional structured data from web services of the IED and or from web services of a data storage service e.g. internet data storage services and data storage services . In other aspects the software gadgets can be auto or manually configured to auto refresh periodically without user intervention in addition to or in lieu of being manually refreshed.

As described above the user can edit copy duplicate delete move rearrange or setup any of the software gadgets displayed in the web browser . For example the user can press the setup button of the software gadget to change the address pointed to by the software gadget from IED to IED . Similarly the user can point the software gadget to a plurality of IEDs e.g. IEDs . The user can also create or download additional software gadgets from a gadget library e.g. gadget library . Once downloaded the additional software gadgets appear on the web page ready for setup by the user where the user can manually point the downloaded software gadgets to one or more IEDs. Alternatively the downloaded software gadgets can automatically discover IEDs in a customer site e.g. customer site .

Now turning to a flow chart of a method of presenting information via software gadgets in a web page is illustrated in accordance with some aspects. The flow chart can be applied to any of the foregoing and the blocks in need not necessarily be performed in the order shown.

A web service exposes first monitored data to a network . The first monitored data is indicative of characteristics such as in the case of electricity voltage current or power of a utility such as electricity or any of WAGES mentioned above measured by a first IED in a utility monitoring system. The utility monitoring system can be a power monitoring system where the monitored data can include but is not limited to values indicative of current voltage or power measured by the first IED. The web service converts the first monitored data into first structured data. The first structured data is based on the first monitored data and sent over the network in a structured format such as XML. The software gadgets can request and receive the first structured data over the network in the structured format.

The software gadgets can also request and receive second structured data from a network accessible data storage service . The data storage service has a web service that exposes second monitored data . The second monitored data can be the same as or different than the first monitored data. In some aspects the first monitored data is from a first IED and the second monitored data is from a second IED. In other aspects the first monitored data is real time monitored data and second monitored data is historical monitored data from the same and or different IEDs. In some aspects the web service of the data storage service converts the second monitored data into the second structured data . In other aspects the web service of the data storage service merely sends the second structured data over the network.

The software gadgets manipulate the structured data to produce structured information . The structured information is based on the first monitored data the second monitored data or both. Manipulating the structured data may entail formatting the structured data into a chart or a graph and or organizing the structure data. Manipulating may also entail analyzing the structured data to produce representative information such as displaying the monitored data in a tabular format or in a graphical chart preventative information such as a recommendation to ameliorate a voltage sag and or predictive information such as a recommendation to maintain a motor to avoid a potential electrical event in the future . For example the software gadgets may manipulate the structured data to produce information representing the average current value flowing through a particular IED. For another example the software gadgets may manipulate the structured data to produce a warning that a particular IED needs servicing or maintenance. Users can be presented with an option via the software gadget to purchase an analysis for service based on the structured information presented on the software gadget. For example when the software gadget recommends that a motor be maintained the software gadget can present the user with an option to purchase a motor maintenance service offered by the provider of the software gadget.

The software gadgets communicate the structured information to a web browser for display in a web page by the web browser . Referring to the above average current example discussed above the software gadget displays the average current data to a user of the web browser through a graphical representation on the web page.

Any of the software such as the software gadgets or methods described herein can include machine readable instructions for execution by a a processor b a controller and or c any other suitable processing device. It will be readily understood that the devices can include such a suitable processing device. Any algorithm software or method disclosed herein can be embodied in software stored on a tangible medium such as for example a flash memory a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD or other memory devices but persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the entire algorithm and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than a controller and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware in a well known manner e.g. it may be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable logic device FPLD discrete logic etc. . Also some or all of the machine readable instructions represented in any flowchart depicted herein may be implemented manually. Further although specific algorithms are described with reference to flowcharts depicted herein persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that many other methods of implementing the example machine readable instructions may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

While particular aspects embodiments and applications of the present invention have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise construction and compositions disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations may be apparent from the foregoing descriptions without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

