---

title: Trading system products and processes
abstract: A trading platform and trading method that allows access to additional pools of liquidity is described. Other embodiments are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08285629&OS=08285629&RS=08285629
owner: CFPH, LLC
number: 08285629
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080117
---
This application claims priority to provisional application 60 988 426 filed Nov. 15 2007 entitled TRADING SYSTEM PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The term product means any machine manufacture and or composition of matter unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term process means any process algorithm method or the like unless expressly specified otherwise.

Each process whether called a method algorithm or otherwise inherently includes one or more steps and therefore all references to a step or steps of a process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term process or a like term. Accordingly any reference in a claim to a step or steps of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.

The term invention and the like mean the one or more inventions disclosed in this application unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments certain embodiments one embodiment another embodiment and the like mean one or more but not all embodiments of the disclosed invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term variation of an invention means an embodiment of the invention unless expressly specified otherwise.

A reference to another embodiment in describing an embodiment does not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment e.g. an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term herein means in the present application including anything which may be incorporated by reference unless expressly specified otherwise.

The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the phrase at least one of a widget a car and a wheel means either i a widget ii a car iii a wheel iv a widget and a car v a widget and a wheel vi a car and a wheel or vii a widget a car and a wheel. The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean one of each of the plurality of things.

Numerical terms such as one two etc. when used as cardinal numbers to indicate quantity of something e.g. one widget two widgets mean the quantity indicated by that numerical term but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term. For example the phrase one widget does not mean at least one widget and therefore the phrase one widget does not cover e.g. two widgets.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on . The phrase based at least on is equivalent to the phrase based at least in part on .

The term represent and like terms are not exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the term represents do not mean represents only unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase the data represents a credit card number describes both the data represents only a credit card number and the data represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else .

The term whereby is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that express only the intended result objective or consequence of something that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus when the term whereby is used in a claim the clause or other words that the term whereby modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.

The term e.g. and like terms mean for example and thus does not limit the term or phrase it explains. For example in the sentence the computer sends data e.g. instructions a data structure over the Internet the term e.g. explains that instructions are an example of data that the computer may send over the Internet and also explains that a data structure is an example of data that the computer may send over the Internet. However both instructions and a data structure are merely examples of data and other things besides instructions and a data structure can be data .

The term respective and like terms mean taken individually . Thus if two or more things have respective characteristics then each such thing has its own characteristic and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example the phrase each of two machines has a respective function means that the first such machine has a function and the second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not be the same as the function of the second machine.

The term i.e. and like terms mean that is and thus limits the term or phrase it explains. For example in the sentence the computer sends data i.e. instructions over the Internet the term i.e. explains that instructions are the data that the computer sends over the Internet.

Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the range. For example the range 1 to 10 shall be interpreted to specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 e.g. 1 2 3 4 . . . 9 and non whole numbers e.g. 1.1 1.2 . . . 1.9 .

Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous e.g. because of an explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous instances of one such term phrase does not mean instances of another such term phrase must have a different meaning. For example where a statement renders the meaning of including to be synonymous with including but not limited to the mere usage of the phrase including but not limited to does not mean that the term including means something other than including but not limited to .

The term facilitating and like terms may include any action or set of actions which help to bring about a result. Throughout this disclosure examples of facilitation may be given. Such examples should be interpreted as non limiting examples only.

An order query should be understood to include information that when interpreted by a computer module identifies an order for which a trade related action is desired. Such information may be interpreted by the computer module for use in querying stored information such as a database of stored order information.

A firm order should be understood to include an order for a financial instrument for which a system will execute a trade with a matching order without additional intervening authorization from an originator of the firm order.

A financial instrument should be understood to include an instrument that evinces ownership of dept or equity and or any derivative thereof including equities stocks fixed income instruments bonds debentures certificates of interest or deposit warrants options futures forwards swaps or generally any security.

Although some embodiments are described with reference to Order Management Systems which are understood in the art it should be understood that other embodiments may include an order information system. An order information system should be understood any system through which information about orders to purchase and or sell financial instruments is stored including for example order management systems.

Two things should be understood to match if they share one or more properties. The exact properties shared may be different among various embodiments. Some example properties may include a type of financial instrument e.g. industry capitalization risk etc. a security identifier e.g. stock symbol etc. an amount of shares a price etc.

A representation of a thing includes any indication from which a part of an underlying thing may be derived.

Enabling should be understood to include allowing an action to occur. An action may be enabled by for example providing activating a mechanism e.g. a button or other control through which the action may be performed e.g. by clicking a button or otherwise activating another control .

Binding acceptance of an order should be understood to include an acceptance of a trade fulfilling at least part of the order that does not allow for further intervention in the execution of the trade and without the ability to revoke the acceptance e.g. without the ability to revoke the acceptance in any way without the ability to revoke the acceptance without a penalty .

Suppressing evidence should be understood to include attempting to prevent others from discovering evidence. Suppressing evidence of a situation or action may include not disseminating information about the situation or action disseminating false or misleading information about the situation or action disseminating false or mislead information at other times to obscure the dissemination of information about the situation or action and or any other desired actions.

Facilitating execution of a trade should be understood to include performing any actions that help to bring about the execution of a trade. The actions may include for example actually executing the trade transmitting a request for the execution of the trade transmitting any information that helps to bring about the trade and or any other actions.

A marketplace should be understood to include a platform through which at least the following actions are performed order execution is facilitated indications of orders are accepted and matches for the orders are sought.

Applying a filter to a set of things should be understood to include generating a subset of the set of things in which each thing in the subset has one or more desired properties.

A trade should be understood to fulfill part of an order for one or more things if the trade includes transfers of ownership of at least a portion of the one of more thing in accordance with the order.

A participant system should be understood to include any system that allows an order management system to interface with a marketplace.

The term determining and grammatical variants thereof e.g. to determine a price determining a value determine an object which meets a certain criterion is used in an extremely broad sense. The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The term determining does not imply certainty or absolute precision and therefore determining can include estimating extrapolating predicting guessing and the like.

The term determining does not imply that mathematical processing must be performed and does not imply that numerical methods must be used and does not imply that an algorithm or process is used.

The term determining does not imply that any particular device must be used. For example a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.

Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one of a feature e.g. a limitation such as at least one widget covers one widget as well as more than one widget and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim the second claim uses a definite article the to refer to the limitation e.g. the widget this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature e.g. the widget can cover both one widget and more than one widget .

When an ordinal number such as first second third and so on is used as an adjective before a term that ordinal number is used unless expressly specified otherwise merely to indicate a particular feature such as to distinguish that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example a first widget may be so named merely to distinguish it from e.g. a second widget . Thus the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget 1 does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location 2 does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time and 3 does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other as in importance or quality. In addition the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.

When a single device article or other product is described herein more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may alternatively be used in place of the single device article that is described. Accordingly the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device article whether or not they cooperate .

Similarly where more than one device article or other product is described herein whether or not they cooperate a single device article may alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example a plurality of computer based devices may be substituted with a single computer based device. Accordingly the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device article.

The functionality and or the features of a single device that is described may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments need not include the described device itself but rather can include the one or more other devices which would in those other embodiments have such functionality features.

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present application nor the Abstract set forth at the end of the present application is to be taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention s . An Abstract has been included in this application merely because an Abstract of not more than words is required under 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b .

The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Numerous embodiments are described in the present application and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present application constitutes the invention claimed herein or is essential to the invention claimed herein or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein except where it is either expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.

The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes benefits and possible uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.

The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the invention s . Also the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention s which must be present in all embodiments.

Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time e.g. weeks at a time . In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention s . Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component feature is essential or required.

Although process steps algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a particular sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps that does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no step is essential or required.

Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products or methods in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For example such interaction may include linking one business model to another business model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.

Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components aspects qualities characteristics and or features that does not indicate that any or all of the plurality are preferred essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise an enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the enumerated list a computer a laptop a PDA does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.

All embodiments are illustrative and do not imply that the invention or any embodiments were made or performed as the case may be.

It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various processes described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately programmed general purpose computers special purpose computers and computing devices. One or more such computers or computing devices may be referred to as a computer system. illustrates an example computer system. The computer system comprises a plurality of server computers and client computers . Typically a processor e.g. one or more microprocessors one or more microcontrollers one or more digital signal processors will receive instructions e.g. from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Instructions may be embodied in e.g. one or more computer programs one or more scripts.

A processor means one or more microprocessors central processing units CPUs computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices or any combination thereof regardless of the architecture e.g. chip level multiprocessing multi core RISC CISC Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages pipelining configuration simultaneous multithreading .

Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include e.g. a processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the process.

Further programs that implement such methods as well as other types of data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media e.g. computer readable media in a number of manners. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus various combinations of hardware and software may be used instead of software only.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium a plurality of the same or a combination of different media which participate in providing data e.g. instructions data structures which may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data e.g. sequences of instructions to a processor. For example data may be i delivered from RAM to a processor ii carried over a wireless transmission medium iii formatted and or transmitted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 SAP ATP Bluetooth and TCP IP TDMA CDMA and 3G and or iv encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.

Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer readable medium can store in any appropriate format those program elements which are appropriate to perform the method.

Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the described steps are required embodiments of an apparatus include a computer computing device operable to perform some but not necessarily all of the described process.

Likewise just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the described steps are required embodiments of a computer readable medium storing a program or data structure include a computer readable medium storing a program that when executed can cause a processor to perform some but not necessarily all of the described process.

A computer system may also include one or more input output devices . Such input output devices may include monitors keyboards mice and r any other desired devices.

Some computer systems may include transmission medium which may be referred to as a communication network that couples various internal components of the computer system. Such a communication network may also be referred to in some implementations as a computer bus. Some computer systems may include a specialized input output device configured to connect to an external communication network. Such a device may be referred to as a network interface. The external communication network may include a LAN and or the Internet . In some implementations an edge routing device may operate between a LAN and another network like the Internet . Such a device may include a firewall and or any other desired security mechanism.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device which accesses data in such a database.

Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication e.g. via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via any wired or wireless medium e.g. the Internet LAN WAN or Ethernet Token Ring a telephone line a cable line a radio channel an optical communications line commercial on line service providers bulletin board systems a satellite communications link a combination of any of the above . Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other computing devices such as those based on the Intel Pentium Core or Centrino processor that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in communication with the computer.

In an embodiment a server computer or centralized authority may not be necessary or desirable. For example the present invention may in an embodiment be practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment any functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.

Where a process is described in an embodiment the process may operate without any user intervention. In another embodiment the process includes some human intervention e.g. a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human .

The present disclosure provides to one of ordinary skill in the art an enabling description of several embodiments and or inventions. Some of these embodiments and or inventions may not be claimed in the present application but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application.

Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.

In a claim a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase means for or the phrase step for means that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 applies to that limitation.

In a claim a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase means for or the phrase step for means that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 does not apply to that limitation regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of structure material or acts for performing that function. For example in a claim the mere use of the phrase step of or the phrase steps of in referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 applies to that step s .

With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 the corresponding structure material or acts described in the specification and equivalents thereof may perform additional functions as well as the specified function.

Computers processors computing devices and like products are structures that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified function by executing one or more programs such as a program stored in a memory device of that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise such a program need not be based on any particular algorithm such as any particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different algorithms and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified function.

Therefore with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 structure corresponding to a specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure includes programmed products which perform the function regardless of whether such product is programmed with i a disclosed algorithm for performing the function ii an algorithm that is similar to a disclosed algorithm or iii a different algorithm for performing the function.

Where there is recited a means for performing a function hat is a method one structure for performing this method includes a computing device e.g. a general purpose computer that is programmed and or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function.

Also includes a computing device e.g. a general purpose computer that is programmed and or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of additional different embodiments and similarly references to the description of embodiments which all include a particular feature does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application shall be prefaced by the phrase does not include or by the phrase cannot perform .

Any patent patent application or other document referred to herein is incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure but only for purposes of written description in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 1 and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 1 and should in no way be used to limit define or otherwise construe any term of the present application where the present application without such incorporation by reference would not have failed to provide an ascertainable meaning but rather would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to be provided. Thus the person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference

Any incorporation by reference does not in and of itself imply any endorsement of ratification of or acquiescence in any statements opinions arguments or characterizations contained in any incorporated patent patent application or other document unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent application.

In interpreting the present application which includes the claims one of ordinary skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application but not to the prosecution history of any other patent or patent application regardless of whether there are other patent applications that are considered related to the present application and regardless of whether there are other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present application.

Information about orders for good or service may be tracked by an order management system OMS . An order management system may include data regarding desired contemplated open completed considered ongoing and or other order. One typical order management system used in securities trading includes the Fidessa Order Management System. Although this order management system and embodiments below focus largely on the trading of securities e.g. stocks bonds futures options derivatives etc. it should be recognized that other embodiments may be used in connection with the trading of any goods and or services whether tangible e.g. food oil collectibles etc. or intangible intellectual property rights contract performance etc. .

Information that is stored by an OMS may identify a specific security that is desired e.g. by a user of the OMS by a client of the user of the OMS etc. a type or class of security that is desired an amount or range of amounts of a security that is desired a desired price price range and or pricing method to be used to buy the security a limit on a desired price associated with a limit order for the security a security to be sold a price price range and or pricing method to be used to sell a security a security desired or available to be sold e.g. long and or short sale an amount of a security to be sold contingent buying and or selling information e.g. information identifying a purchase to be made if some contingent event occurs information setting amounts based on a contingent price etc. and or any other information.

Pricing policies may include any desired pricing policy supported by a trading system. In some embodiments such a pricing policy may include for example midpoint pricing in which prices are based on a midpoint between a national best offer and national best bid limit pricing in which a maximum or minimum price level cannot be passed midpoint pricing subject to such a limit volume weighted average pricing in which the weighted average price over a trading period is the bases of the price. Any other methods or combinations of pricing policies may be used.

Market liquidity a measure a securities ability to be bought and or sold readily through a market is recognized as a factor that may affect prices at which securities are traded. For example one may have a more difficult time selling an illiquid security because potential buyers may fear they will be unable to resell the security after purchase. Such fear may artificially lower the price of the sale of the security from the true market value of the security to help alleviate the fears of such potential buyers. Accordingly a more liquid market may facilitate trading of securities at their fair market values or closer to their fair market values than they would be traded at in a less liquid market.

In some markets information identifying orders e.g. bids offers etc. that is stored by order management systems or otherwise stored internally by a trading organization or trader have not traditionally been thought of as liquidity available to the market. Rather such orders typically add to the liquidity of those markets only when they are made public to the market so other traders in the market may act against those orders. Such secret orders may be referred to as dark pools or dark books of liquidity because they remain unseen by such markets.

It is recognized that enabling trading to take place using such orders may improve the liquidity of a market and thereby allow more trades to occur through a market and or allow trades to occur at a price closer to or at a fair market value.

It is recognized that one problem that may be associated with using such orders in a market includes a potential that information associated with the existence of otherwise secret orders may be used to influence a market and or to diminish an advantage attributable to the originator of the information e.g. some insight knowledge trading algorithm etc. . In typical markets when bids and offers match a negotiation may take place between a buyer and a seller before any transaction is finalized. Such negotiations typically include revealing the existence of a matching party information about a matching order associated with the matching party and or the identity of the matching party to both parties involved in the negotiation. By revealing this information the potential to game the market e.g. artificially affect a market using knowledge of the existence of orders of other people is increased and the possibly secret knowledge embodied by the orders may be made public. For example a trader may end a negotiation by refusing an order in a negotiation. The trader may subsequently use the knowledge that the matching party is interested in a transaction related to the security to increase or decrease the price of the security by entering one or more other orders at higher or lower prices and or use the knowledge embodied by the order to adjust otherwise adjust a trading strategy.

It is recognized that as the size of orders increases the chances that a trader associated with such orders is trying to game the market may decrease. Accordingly it is recognized that trading large blocks of liquidity may decrease the probability that gaming is occurring. It is also recognized that if a trader agrees to have an order executed without a negotiation without receiving notification before the execution and or otherwise automatically the chance that the trader is trying to game the market is also decrease. Furthermore it is recognized that if anonymity of trading partners is maintained for part or all of a trading exchange the chances of gaming the market are also reduced. Accordingly participants in securities markets such as buy and or sell side participants may be more willing to participate in markets with one or more such characteristics. Further such participants may be more willing to allow orders present in OMS to add liquidity to such markets. Markets with such characteristics may for example allow large blocks of securities to be moved relatively quietly compared to traditional trading mechanisms.

It is recognized that in some markets such as typical securities markets participants exist in an asymmetrical relationship. For example participants known as sell side firms in securities markets generally act as retail brokers and researchers for investors. Participants known as buy side firms in securities markets generally include investment institutions that tend to buy and or sell large amounts of securities for money management purposes and keep information about their trading intentions secret. Accordingly the desires of these participants may not be identical. Some embodiments may be configured to treat differently participants with different characteristics in an attempt to balance desires of the different participants.

Some embodiments of a trading system may allow access to what might be traditionally untapped pools of liquidity e.g. orders in OMS systems . Such systems may provide asymmetric access rules to such information to accommodate desires and or preferences of market participants. Such systems may include anonymity policies order size restrictions incentives filtering policies and or automatic execution of types of orders to encourage participation.

Some embodiments may read information from an OMS or other source of orders associated with a buy side market participant. Information regarding such orders may be used to match information from other market participants with one or more element of anonymity automatic order execution and or order size policy implementations. In some embodiments the information may be narrowcast to potential counter parties for matching with orders associated with the OMS of those parties. Accordingly market participants such as sell side participants and buy side participants can submit orders both firm orders and OMS orders that add liquidity to a market with a degree of privacy and or a security that the market is not being gamed by other participants.

In some embodiments firm orders i.e. orders for which participants agree to automatic order execution with matching orders may be viewed anonymously by those unlikely to abuse the information and or by nobody at all. In some implementations such participants may include buy side participants who may view information about firm orders if a matching order exists in an OMS associated with a respective buy side participant. In some implementations such participants may include participants for which matching firm orders exist e.g. have been submitted to a trading system . By limiting the viewing of such information trading of high quality block liquidity using pools of liquidity currently not available may be encouraged.

In some embodiments control over one or more aspects of disclosing information about orders in an OMS may reside with buy side originators of the orders. In some embodiments sell side participants or other buy side participants that enter a firm order matching an order in a buy side participant s OMS may only be notified of the existence of such a matching order if the buy side participant with the order in its OMS agrees to such notification and or agrees to an execution of a trade. In some embodiments the sell side participants or other buy side participants may not be notified of the identity of the buy side participant at all but rather only be notified that some matching order was found and or executed.

The central system or a place at which orders are executed may be called a marketplace . In some embodiments various actions such as firm order querying firm order matching providing indications of firm orders firm order matches receipt of indications that firm order queries firm order matches exist and or any other desired actions may occur for example upstream from such a marketplace.

As illustrated the trading system may include a central system . The central system may include one or more computer systems each configured to perform one or more processes. Such computer systems may receive transmit and or process information as desired. In some implementations the central system may be configured to perform actions including receiving information relating to orders e.g. firm orders matching firm orders executing trades facilitating the execution of trades clearing orders facilitating the clearing of orders communicating with remote systems settling orders reporting trades querying remote systems to determine if matching order exist querying processes or databases to determine if matching orders exist and or any other desired actions.

In some embodiments the central system may be distributed among a plurality of regional hubs. Such distribution may allow a trading system to span a very large geographic area through which a very large number of trades may be routed. Such regional hubs may include duplication and or distribution of functionality.

In some embodiments the central system may be responsible for facilitating one or more functions typically referred to as back office functions. For example the central system may facilitate clearing of trades settling of trades reporting of trades credit checking of participants other functions required for compliance with rules and regulations and or any other desired functions.

In some embodiments the central system may include a firm order matching system. Such a system may be configured to determine if firm orders match other firm orders and or perform other functions related to such firm order matching. In some embodiments the central system may include an order router matching module. Such a module may be configured to route order queries to one or more participants and or perform any desired actions associated with OMS orders. In some embodiments the central system may include a regulation NMS system. Such a system may interface with one or more other securities markets to find better pricing options for an order. Such action may be required in some embodiments because of securities regulations.

In some embodiments the central system may be coupled to one or more remote systems by a communication network . The communication network may include the Internet one or more local area networks and or any other desired communication medium. The communication network may allow the central system to transmit and or receive information to and or from remote systems such as computer systems associated with market participants. In some embodiments communication between systems modules processes and or programs may include the use of Financial Information eXchange messaging. Such messaging may be encrypted or not as desired. In some embodiments one or more firewalls or other security device may be included in the communication network .

In some embodiments system may include one or more sell side computer systems each indicated by . The sell side systems may include one or more trading computers configured to accept information regarding security offers e.g. firm orders to buy and or sell securities . The sell side systems may be configured to receive send and or processes information. In some embodiments the sell side systems may be configured to transmit one or more indications of such orders to the central system over the communication network . In some distributed embodiments the sell side systems may be configure to transfer information to one or more other sell side systems and or buy side systems . In some embodiments the sell side systems may be configured to receive information identifying a completed order execution e.g. from the central system and may provide an indication of such an indication to a user e.g. through a trading interface . In some embodiments the sell side systems may be configured to interact with the central system or an otherwise distributed system. In some embodiments a separate computer system may act as an interface between the central system or otherwise distributed system and the rest of the sell side system . Although the sell side systems are shown as a single system it should be recognized that any number of computers may be used to perform any desired functions of a sell side system.

Some embodiments may include one or more buy side systems each indicated at . In some embodiments all or part of the buy side systems may be located with a buy side market participant. In some embodiments all or part of the buy side systems may be distributed or located at a central location such as with central system .

In some embodiments the buy side systems may include one or more trader systems each indicated at block . The trader systems may provide an interface to one or more traders through which information may be obtained or provided. Traders for example may enter order information and or receive indications associated with orders through a trader systems .

In some embodiments the buy side systems may include one or more OMS systems . The OMS systems may perform one or more functions typically performed by an OMS. Such functions may include storing order information providing order information to trader computers and or any other desired functions. As mentioned above one example OMS system includes the Fidessa OMS system.

In some embodiments the buy side systems may include one or more participant systems . In some embodiments the participant systems may act as an interface between the central system or an otherwise distributed system and the rest of the buy side system . In some embodiments the participant system may perform function related to trading such as storing order information receiving firm order queries executing orders facilitating execution of orders clearing orders facilitating clearing of orders transmitting order information determining if matching orders exist providing indication regarding order queries searching existing orders determining if an order is a firm order or a OMS order and or any other desired functions. Participant systems may enhance the functionality of traditional OMS systems by allowing otherwise unavailable pools of liquidity to become available to a market.

In some embodiments participant systems may query e.g. periodically randomly etc. OMS systems to generate a copy of an OMS database. In some embodiments the OMS systems may send information to the participant systems in response to such queries and or without any querying taking place. Such information may include indications of orders in the OMS database e.g. updates of prior orders changes to orders deletions of orders new orders complete database copies etc. In some embodiments a participant system may directly access the OMS database e.g. without the need to make a copy of the OMS system such as by querying the database. In still other embodiments the OMs system and participant system may be a single system and such distinctions may not be relevant.

In some embodiments buy side order information may be maintained in confidence on buy side systems which may be located on respective buy side participants premises. By so maintaining the information buy side participants may feel more secure about the use of such information for trading and be less worried about potential information leakage.

In some embodiments one or more software modules may act as part of an OMS system to provide some or all buy side functionality. Such modules may exist in addition to and or as an alternative to the participant system . For example the module may include an update to an OMS software or a companion program to an OMS software program.

Although shows OMS systems participant systems and trading systems as separate systems it should be understood that any configuration of systems may be used. For example a single system may operate as all or part of any other systems e.g. a single system may act as an OMS system and a participant system etc. Furthermore various systems may share information and or distribute the performance of functions. For example an OMS system may maintain an order database that may be read by one or more or a trading system a participant system and or any other desired system.

In some embodiments one or more of the buy side or sell side systems may include mobile devices. Such mobile devices may include laptop computers PDAs cellular telephones and or any other desired mobile device.

In some embodiments one or more software modules may act as companions and or replacements to trading interface software and or OMS software. Such companion or replacement software may include additional and or different options from traditional interface and or OMS software.

Although shows buy side systems and sell side systems as connected to separate parts of communication network it should be understood that such systems may be connected to a same network such as the Internet or any other communication network.

As indicated at block process may include receiving an indication of a firm order. In some embodiments such an indication may be considered a binding indication on the part of the firm order submitter. For example central system may receive an indication of such an order from a buy side system e.g. and or a sell side system e.g. . Such orders may be entered for example by a trader using a trading interface at a buy or sell side firm. The indication of the firm order may identify that an originator of the order is committed to a transaction e.g. a bid offer etc. . In some embodiments an indication of an order may indicate an amount of a security to buy or sell a time for a firm order to remain open a price at or around which to buy the security a limit price a pricing method an order identifier and or any other information.

As indicated at block process may include determining if any matching firm orders are available. A matching order may include an order that includes complementary terms to the firm order. Such terms may include a security an amount a price a time frame and or any other desired information. For example the firm order may indicate that 10 000 shares of eSpeed stock should be purchased at an average price of 100.00 per share. A prior firm order may have been received that indicates 10 000 shares of eSpeed stock should be sold at an average price of 100.00 per share. The prior eSpeed order may be determined to match the later eSpeed order in such a situation. In some embodiments orders within a price range below a maximum price above a minimum price and or matching in any other desired ways may also be determined to be matching. In some embodiments orders for a larger number of smaller number of shares may be determined to be matching. In some embodiments an indication of a firm order may identify a minimum and or maximum order size percentages for which other firm orders may be determined to be matching.

In some embodiments multiple orders may be determined to be matching according to some priority mechanism so that a total number of shares of all matching orders sums to at least as much as a number indicated by the firm order indication. In some embodiments in which multiple orders are determined to be matching a priority may be assigned to some of the orders based one or more characteristics of the orders an originator of the orders and or any other characteristic.

In some embodiments a matching firm order may have been received from a buy or sell side system. Such a matching order may have been stored on a machine readable medium e.g. a disk drive of the central system . Determining if a matching firm order has previously been received may include searching a database or other listing of previously received firm orders. Such a database may be keyed to allow quick lookup such as by security identifier e.g. stock symbol .

Some embodiments may include maintaining a listing of firm orders. Such a listing may include a database. Maintaining the listing may include adding newly received firm orders to the listing deleting fulfilled firm orders from the listing deleting expired firm orders from the listing and or any other desired actions.

As indicated at block if one or more matching firm order is determined to exist the execution of some or all of those matching firm orders may be facilitated to fulfill the received firm order. Each such matching orders may fully or partially fulfill the received firm order. Facilitating the execution may include performing an exchange of money for a security clearing such an exchange transmitting information to a remote execution and or clearing service notifying participants and or any other desired action.

In some embodiments in which multiple matching orders exist the matching orders may be matched to the received firm order based on any desired prioritizing mechanism. Such prioritizing mechanism may include prioritizing based on price of security first come first serve priority given to older and or most active originators of orders large orders may be matched first priority given to closest match in price and or size a round robin system and or any other desired prioritizing method. In some embodiments multiple orders may be combined together to fully fulfill as many existing offers as possible. In some embodiments part of each matching order may be fulfilled. The part may correspond to some characteristic of the order or order originator such as order size loyalty of originator activeness of originator actual price compared to desired price etc.

In some embodiments process may end at block if a matching firm order is found. In some embodiments if one or more matching firm orders exist but do not completely fulfill the received firm order execution of the matching firm order may be facilitated and a remaining balance of the firm order may be treated as if no matching firm order had been found e.g. may continue as described below with a firm order that includes only the left over order amount .

In some embodiments as indicated at block process may include querying one or more participants to find a matching order. In some embodiments querying the participants may include transmitting one or more requests from a central system e.g. to a buy side system e.g. . In other embodiments querying the participants may include transmitting requests from a computer of a distributed system to another computer of the distributed system such as from one buy side participant to another or one sell side participant to a buy side participant etc. In some embodiments such querying may continue from one participant to another participant in a tree like fashion in which one or more participants queries one or more further participants which may themselves continue querying further participants and so on. Such action may be taken if no matching firm order was found or an incomplete set of matching firm orders was previously found as described above. In still other embodiments querying may include transmitting requests to other processes threads memory locations portion of a computer program etc. executing by a single system such as central system or multiple systems such as a distributed system.

Systems associated with market participants e.g. buy side system participant systems may be configured to accept requests and determine if matching OMS orders exist. In some situations which are discussed in more detail below some such systems may respond to a query indicating that a match exists. In some implementations such a response may include an indication that the trade has already been executed and or cleared e.g. by a remote system to which a request was transmitted some other system etc. .

In some embodiments the act of querying and or some or all response that may be received may be concealed and or otherwise suppressed from an originator of the firm order and or any other individual. For example if a negative response is received such a response may not be revealed to the originator of the firm order. In some embodiments as discussed below only a positive response may be revealed. In some embodiments negative response may be eliminated or otherwise suppressed. By limiting responses actions may be kept secret from originators of the order and the participants may be granted an additional level of anonymity thereby encouraging them to participate in the trading system because the opportunity and or chances to game the market may be reduced.

As indicated at block process may include receiving additional firm orders from various other firm order sources such as buy side and or sell side participants. Such receipt of new firm orders may occur substantially simultaneously as the querying of participants. Such new firm orders may be compared with the received firm order from block to determine if they are matching similar to the description above with respect to block .

As indicated at block process may include determining if a matching order is found. Finding a matching order may include receiving a new firm order from another source and or receiving a response from a participant that a matching order exists.

If no matching order is determined to exist process may loop back to block . In various embodiments the participants may be queried periodically. The period may be any length such as 30 seconds 30 minutes a random length a length based on some characteristic of a trader and or order etc. In various embodiments participants may be queried until either a match is found a matching firm order is received a time period associated with the firm order expires the firm order is revoked and or any other desired length of time.

If one or more matching orders is determined to exist process may include facilitating execution of a trade fulfilling the firm order and the one or more matching orders as indicated at block . In some embodiments facilitating may include executing a trade clearing a trade transmitting indications that execution or clearing of a trade should be performed by a remote system and or any other desired actions. In some embodiments execution of the trade may occur at a remote server such as one or more servers at which a firm order match is found e.g. a buy side system etc. and or a central system such as central system .

In some embodiments a matching order may not fulfill a whole firm order. In such situations process may continue to search for matching orders e.g. by querying remote servers and awaiting new firm orders in a loop to block .

In some embodiments multiple matching orders may be found within a relatively short period of time. For example multiple firm orders may be received and or multiple OMS orders may be found at participants within a relatively short period of time. Such a time period may be any amount of time desired such as 1 second 1 minute etc.

In various embodiments order execution with such matching orders found within such a short period of time may be based on some desired set of priorities. In such embodiments matching orders found with in the short period of time may be treated as if they were found simultaneously and executed based on some other priority mechanism. For example firm orders may be executed first or orders found through querying participants may be executed first first entered orders may be executed first larger orders may be executed first smaller orders may be executed first older orders may be executed first newer orders may be executed first best customers may have their orders executed first highest ranked customers may have their orders executed first customers willing to be charged a fee may have their orders executed first and or any other method may be used to determine execution order. In other embodiments order execution may be based strictly on the order in which the matching order is found.

Process may end at block after facilitation of the execution of the orders is complete. In some embodiments one or more participants such as originators of the orders may be notified of execution. In some embodiments the order of acts may not be the same is indicated in process . In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner.

As indicated at block process may include receiving an indication of an order. Such an indication may be received for example from a trader entering information about desired trades through a trading interface. The indication may include an identification of a price an amount of a security to buy or sell a time for an order to remain open a price at or around which to buy the security a limit price a pricing method an order identifier and or any other information.

As indicated at block process may include determining if the order is a firm order. A firm order as described above may indicate that an order should be executed substantially automatically. A OMS order may indicate that the information about the order is to remain secret from other market participants and or should not be automatically executed against. Some embodiments may not include a separate act of determining a type of order. For example in some embodiments different processes threads and or systems may receive the different types of orders so that the act of receiving the order itself identifies the type of order. For example a trader may use one interface to submit an OMS order e.g. to an OMS system to a participant system etc. and use a different interface to submit a firm order e.g. to a central system etc. . In some embodiments a single program may be used to submit the different order types and the program may make the determination e.g. based on different buttons pressed based on different checkboxes selected etc. .

As indicated at block if the order is a firm order process may include providing the indication of the order for firm order execution. Such providing may include transmitting information about the order to the central system or a distributed system. Such an order may be received by such system which may attempt to execute the order substantially automatically e.g. using a process similar to process . In some embodiments such providing may include providing the information to a processing thread or program executed by one or more computing devices. Process may end at block if the order is a firm order. In other embodiments process may continue to provide updated information about the execution of the firm order such as through an interface of a trading computer.

As indicated at block if the order is not a firm order process may include an act of storing information about the order. Storing the information may include storing the information on a machine readable medium such as in RAM on a hard disk etc. The medium may be part of associated with one or more of an OMS system and or a participant system. The information may be stored in one or more database tables configured to store information about orders. Such a database table may be arranged for easy searching of orders to determining if an incoming order request matches any of the ordered stored in the database. For example in some embodiments the database may be keyed by a name of a security.

Some embodiments may include maintaining stored information. Such information may be maintained similar to the maintenance of order information in a typical OMS system. In some embodiments maintenance may include the actions of an OMS and or a participant system. Maintenance may include updating orders executed in connection with matching firm order queries. For example order information may be removed updated when an order is fully or partially fulfilled an order expires an order is explicitly removed or updated by a trader and or for any other desired reason.

As indicated at block process may include receive incoming firm order queries. An incoming firm order query may indicate an identification of a price an amount of a security to buy or sell a time for an order to remain open a price at or around which to buy the security a limit price a pricing method an order identifier and or any other information. In some embodiments such firm order queries may be received from one or more computer systems performing a process similar to that shown in process . In some embodiments the firm order queries may include orders that would fulfill part or all of the OMS order. Such queries may be received at a participant system an OMS system configured to perform some or all of the action of process and or any other desired location.

As indicated at block process may include determining that a firm order query matches the order. For example a result from a database query that includes terms identified by the firm order query e.g. security identifier price quantity etc. may return a positive result.

As indicated at block process may include attempting to facilitate execution of a trade with the matching firm order query. Facilitating execution of a trade may include for example displaying an indication of the firm order to a trader through one or more trading interfaces as discussed in more detail below raising an alarm or other audible alert for such a trader and or any other desired action. In some such embodiments the trader may be asked to accept the matching order or reject the matching order. If the trader in some embodiments acceptance of the order the system may execute a trade forward information for the trade to be executed and or cleared by another system and or perform any other desired action to further facilitate execution of the trade.

In some embodiments by keeping the OMS orders secret from other trading participants a trading system performing process may encourage traders to allow pools of liquidity that would typically remain inaccessible such as orders in OMS systems to be used to match against firm orders. This encouragement may be particularly important to buy side participants who may typically be protective of their order information. Such use of OMS orders may increase liquidity in a market using such a process.

Process may end at block after facilitating execution of the trade. In some embodiments one or more participants such as originators of the orders may be notified of execution. In some embodiments stored information regarding the orders may be updated to reflect the order execution. In some embodiments in which only part of the OMS order is fulfilled by the matching firm order process may include receiving additional firm order queries and facilitating execution of those orders.

In some embodiments the order of acts in process may not be the same is indicated in . In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner. For example process may be performed by the participant systems by an OMS system configured to perform one or more parts of process and or by any other system. In some embodiments process may be performed only in connection with a buy side participant.

As indicated at block process may include identifying one or more participants. Participants may include one or more remote servers one or more computer processes threads or programs. For example in some embodiments participants may include buy side systems. In other embodiments participants may include sell side systems and or other systems. Identifying participants may include querying potential participants in a list of participants e.g. pinging IP addresses making function calls etc. . In some embodiments identifying participants may include placing one or more items in a predefined memory location querying a predefined memory location for information about participants accessing a database or other listing of participants receiving an indication that a participant exists e.g. from the participant from an administrator etc. and or any other actions desired. In some embodiments the identified participants may include child participants of a tree like participant structure.

As indicated at block process may include receiving an indication of a firm order. Such a firm order may be substantially similar to the firm order received at block in process .

As indicated at block process may include transmitting requests to the identified servers. Such requests may be substantially similar to those discussed above with respect to block in process . In some embodiments as discussed above with respect to process the received firm orders may be matched against other locally stored firm orders instead of or in addition to querying of participants as discussed with respect to process .

In some embodiments participants may be arranged in a distributed fashion. For example in one embodiment participants may be arranged in a tree like fashion. In such an embodiment a first participant may query one or more other participants. The other participants may determine if matches exist locally. If matches exist the participants may return a positive indication e.g. to the originating participant the originator of the firm order a marketplace etc. . If no match is found locally the further participants may query additional participants. The order of querying may be established based on any desired priority mechanism e.g. largest customers are queried first premium customers queried first highest ranked customers queried first etc. . In some embodiments a participant may query additional participants regardless of whether a match is found locally.

As indicated at block process may include determining if a response was received from a queried participant. In some embodiments determining if a response was received may include querying a port or socket through which communication may be received from a communication network. In other embodiments determining if a response is received may include querying a register memory location process thread program function and or any other action.

In some embodiments if no responses is received process may loop back to block to send one or more additional requests. Any number of requests may be sent any number of times. Any period of time may pass between transmission of requests random periodic etc. . Process may continue to loop until a response is received a matching firm order is found otherwise a time period expires and or any other event occurs.

In some embodiments the participants queried at each loop may be the same or different. For example in some embodiments an initial group of participants may be queried first e.g. a premium group of participants a group of good customers a group of high volume customers etc and then after some period of time a second group of participants may be queried. Any number of such subgroups may be queried in such order.

As indicated at block process may include facilitating execution of a trade fulfilling a matching order in the response. Facilitating may include executing a trade clearing a trade forwarding information requests and or any other desired action. In other embodiments a response may indicate that a trade has been or will be executed and or cleared e.g. by a remote system .

In some embodiments a response may only be received if a match exists and or a trader desires to execute a trade. Limiting response to positive responses may encourage participation because less information is revealed from the participants. This may incentivize participants to make orders available to a market to a great extent than in traditional markets thereby increasing the liquidity of the market.

Other embodiments may include receiving negative response when no matching order exists and or a trader does not desire to execute a trade.

In some embodiments a response may be received for a trade that does not completely fulfill the firm order. In some implementations after execution of such an order process may loop back to block to query participants again. Future queries of participants may include an updated order with a requested amount decreased by the previous order. In other embodiments such facilitation of order execution may be limited to complete orders e.g. based on preferences indicated by an originator of the order based on preferences of a trading system etc. .

In some embodiments multiple responses may be received at the same time or within a relatively short time period. Orders received as such may be treated as if they were received at the same time. A priority mechanism may be used to determine which of such orders is to be executed first. For example an order associated with a high volume customer a premium customer a long term customer or a customer with any other desired characteristic may be given higher or lower priority compared with other orders. In some embodiments largest or smallest orders may be given priority. In other embodiments any desired priority mechanism may be used.

In some embodiments process may end at block . In some embodiments process may include notifying one or more traders of the execution. In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner.

Process of which begins at block illustrates an example process that may be performed by one or more participants. Process may include actions similar to process described above. In some embodiments process may be performed only by one or more buy side participants.

As indicated at block process may include receiving one or more indication of one or more orders. Such orders may include OMS orders as discussed above with respect to process . The orders may be stored accordingly as discussed with respect to block so that queries may be matched against them.

As indicated at block process may include receiving an indication of one or more firm order queries. Such firm order queries may be transmitted for example by an entity performing a process similar to process and or process as discussed above.

As indicated at block process may include filtering firm order queries. Firm order queries may be filtered based on characteristics of the order e.g. price security amount e.g. minimum amount maximum amount etc. characteristics of the originator of the order e.g. a rating of the originator a type of the originator specific originators etc. and or orders queries may be filtered according to any other desired characteristics. In some embodiments different filters may be applied to different types of securities. For example large capitalization securities may have one set of filters applied and small capitalization securities may have a different set of filters applied. In some embodiments specific securities e.g. identified by stock symbol may be filtered out or have a specific set of filters applied.

In some embodiments filtering may allow a participant to filter queries received from or sent to other participants. Filtering may be performed based on any desired characteristics. Such characteristics may include characteristics that make the order less likely to be an order associated with gaming of the market. For example in one implementations a filter may block firm orders that do not meet a minimum size requirement a minimum total dollar amount requirement and or any other desired characteristics.

In some embodiments as another example a participant may only desire to consider orders associated with originators with certain characteristics. Such characteristics may include characteristics that make an order less likely to be an order associated with gaming of the market. For example in one implementations a filter may block orders that are from a particular class of traders e.g. hedge funds etc. that are associated with a particular trader that has been identified by the participant as being involved with gaming the market that are not from a particular trusted set of participants a from a set of participants that were rated poorly by other participants are from a participant without a history of trading etc.

Some embodiments may include receiving an indication of desired filters. The indication may be received from one or more traders participant systems or any other desired source. The indication may identify any desired characteristics combination of characteristics exceptions to filters and or any other information related to the filters.

The filters may be applied in a centralized fashions and or a distributed fashion. For example in some implementations filters may be applied before requests are transmitted e.g. by a central system by a distributed system etc. . Applying the filters before transmitting requests may decrease the amount of traffic associated with performing process . Conversely performing such filtering before transmitting may increase the amount of processing performed before transmitting and may involve a participant revealing filtering preference they may not desire to reveal to anyone even a trading system administrator. In other embodiments filtering may occur locally to a participant. By performing such filtering locally more traffic may be generated by a trading system more processing may take place at participants and filtering options may remain private.

In some embodiments participants may be filtered from receiving requests based on the desires of a firm order submitter e.g. by a central system or other participant submitting queries etc. . Such participants may be filtered by identity order availability and or any other desired characteristic. Such filtering may occur for example by the participants themselves e.g. by a participant system configured to perform such filtering in addition to before or otherwise in connection with other participant functions by a central system by a submitting system and or by any other desired system. In some embodiments for example a participant may not be provided with a query if they do not have a matching firm order to fulfill a minimum percentage of a firm order. In other embodiments such information may not be known until after a query is sent and in such embodiments a match may only be determined to exist if the match meets the minimum percentage. Filtering before transmitting queries may decrease an amount of traffic e.g. TCP IP packets transmitted which may be snooped to reveal trading information however a malicious user may snoop such queries in an attempt to determine a filter setting.

In some embodiments participant systems may transmit filtering information to a central system. Such information may be used to perform the filtering at the central system. Such information may also be used to provide information to users entering firm orders as described below.

A trading system that allows such filtering may enable a participant to open traditionally untapped pools of liquidity only to a certain subset of traders. By allowing such limitations the participant opening that pool of liquidity e.g. a set of orders in an OMS may be more confident that the traders gaining access to those pools are not going to use the pools of liquidity for malicious purposes e.g. gaming the market .

As indicated at block process may include determining if a matching order for the firm order query exists. Such determination may include searching one or more database or other listings of OMS orders. The determination may be made at a same or different location as the filtering. Determining may include searching a listing of orders in an OMS of a buy side participant. Such a listing may include all listed orders a subset of listed orders identified as searchable by a trader and or any other orders.

As indicated at block and process may end if it is determined that no matching order exists. Some embodiments may end without providing any indication that no order exists. By not providing specifically identifying that no order exists others e.g. other traders participants people snooping packets etc. may be unable to determine if no order exists or no such response was sent for some other reason e.g. because a trader indicated that no trader should occur as discussed below because a trade was filtered out as discussed above etc. . In some embodiments no indication that the query was received may be presented to a trader or trading system associated with the participant that received the query. By keeping such information secret receivers of queries may be prevented from using the information that the firm order exists to game the market.

As indicated at blocks and if a firm order is determined to exist process may include providing an indication that a firm order has been received. Providing such an indication may include transmitting information over one or more networks from one computer system to another computer system. Providing such an indication may include presenting a user e.g. a buy side trader associated with the OMS order matched with one or more interfaces or icon identifying the firm order. Such an interface may include options to accept a firm order reject a firm order ignore a firm order ignore all firm orders e.g. for a desire period of time and or any other desired options. Such an indication may be considered a non binding indication from the point of view of the participant associated with the OMS in so much as a recipient e.g. a participant associated with the matching OMS order is not bound to fulfill any order based on the indication. However an originator of the firm order may still be bound to fulfill the order if the recipient of the indication chooses to accept the order.

In some embodiments ignoring a firm order may result in a participant opting out of receiving matching using firm order queries for a minimum amount of time. Such an opt out time may encourage participants to accept firm order queries. The time may vary based on characteristics of the order and or participants.

In some embodiments a user may select various options regarding ignoring future indications. For example a user may select that indications should be ignored unless a price associated with the firm order is at a certain level a firm order has some desired characteristic ignore until a certain time ignore for a certain amount of time ignore until the end of the day etc.

In some embodiments evidence that a user has selected to ignore an indication may be suppressed. For example the information may maintained in confidence at a participant system may be kept in confidence at a central system or may otherwise be kept secret. In implementations where different options for ignoring an indication may selected evidence regarding some or all of the information regarding the options may also be suppressed.

As indicated at block process may include awaiting a response from such an indication. Some implementations may include receiving a response and determining if the response is a positive or negative response. In other implementations a response may not be received or may only be received if the response is a positive response. In some embodiments the amount of time to be awaited may be indicated to a trader. In some embodiments the amount of time may vary based on one or more desired characteristics of a security a participant an originator and or other desired entity.

As indicated at block process may include determining if a positive response is received. Determining if a response is a positive response may include determining which if any mouse buttons were pressed which if any keyboard buttons were pressed which interface control if any was selected and or any other determination of a possible entry of intent if any.

As indicated in block process may end if a positive response is not received. In some embodiments after a period of awaiting a presumptive default response may be entered. In some implementations such a default response may include a negative response. In some embodiments an operator of an interface e.g. a trader an administrator etc. may determine the appropriate amount of time and or the appropriate default command.

As indicated at block if a positive response is received process may include facilitating a trade fulfilling at least part of the matching order and at least part of the firm order. Facilitating the trade may include executing the trade clear the trade transmitting information so that the trade is executed and cleared remotely and or any other desired actions. In some implementations facilitating may include providing a positive response e.g. to a central server to a buy side and or sell side participant etc. . The recipient of the positive response may further facilitate the execution of the trade if a trade fulfilling the firm order has not already been executed. Transmission of a positive response may be considered a binding indication of a trade in so much as the participant associated with the OMs order may be bound to fulfill the matching firm order by the indication. In some embodiments the binding may be conditioned on the firm order not having been fulfilled previously not on actions of the participant.

In some implementations process may include receiving an update regarding the facilitation of the execution such an update may include receiving an indication that the execution was completed or that the execution was not completed. In some implementations a trade may be partially completed and an update may indicate that the trade was partially completed. For example a trade may be partially completed if when the positive response is received only part of the firm order is still awaiting execution and the OMS order includes a larger volume for trade. In such a situation a trade may be cancelled in some embodiments in other embodiments a the OMS order may be executed to the extent that the firm order remains and in indication to that extent may be transmitted to the participants in still other embodiments an originator of the OMS order may be contacted with the updated firm order information and or any other action may be taken.

Process may end at block . Process may include notifying one or more participants of a result of the facilitation of the execution of the trade. In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner. Process may be performed by one or more computer systems in a centralized and or distributed fashion.

As indicated at block process may include providing an interface through which one or more of a firm order and or a OMS order may be entered. Such an interface may allow a user to enter information identifying a security a pricing policy a price an amount and or any other information about a desired trade.

Such a trading interface may illustrate information about a percentage number of participants that may view a firm order query associated with an entered order as indicated at . This information may be based on filters established by the participants to filter out orders as described above. Such information may be collected by a central system e.g. from participant systems . One characteristic that may be frequently used to filter orders includes size of the order. The percentage number of participants may reflect the total number of participants willing to accept orders with all characteristics except size and the number willing to accept with the size characteristic. Accordingly order originators may adjust their order size to increase or decrease the number of participants queried.

As indicated in block process may include receiving information about an entered order. The information may include information entered through the provided interface and or any other information e.g. default information identification information etc. .

As indicated at block process may include determining if the order is a firm order. Determining if the order is a firm order may include determining characteristics of an input signal an interface control and or any other information. Some implementations may not include such a determination but rather an interface program computer etc. at which the indication is received or through which information related to the indication is entered may identify the type without a separate action being taken.

As indicated at block if the order is a firm order process may include transmitting e.g. to a central system a distributed system etc. an indication of the firm order for automatic execution against matching orders e.g. matching firm orders previously or later submitted OMS orders etc. . Process may then end at block . In some implementation process may also include receiving information about a matching order and displaying that information through one or more interfaces.

As indicated at block if the order is determined not to be a firm order process may include transmitting a representation of the order to be matched against incoming order queries e.g. by a process such as process . Transmitting may include providing to a different process thread memory location etc. In other embodiments a same program thread server may perform query matching providing interfaces receiving order information and or any other desired acts. As indicated at block process may then end.

In some embodiments process may include receiving information about the order such as whether matching queries are received etc. In some implementations process may be performed for example by a trading computer an OMS system a central system and or a participant server. In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner. Process may be performed by one or more computer systems in a centralized and or distributed fashion. In some embodiments entering OMS orders in such a process may be limited to buy side participants of a market.

As indicated at block process may include receiving an indication that a firm order matches a OMS order. Such an indication may be received from one or more OMS systems participant servers central servers buy side systems sell side systems computer programs computer processes computer threads memory locations network interfaces and or other desired sources.

As indicated at block process may include providing an interface icon and or other indication that a matching order exists. illustrates an example interface that may be used as such an indication in some embodiments. Such an interface as illustrated may display some details of a matching order. Such an interface may allow a trader to indicate a positive response to the order or a negative response to the order e.g. by operating a control such as a button .

Process as indicated at block may include determining if a positive response is received with some time period. In some embodiments the period of time may include a default time period an amount of time according to a user profile an amount of time according to terms of the firm order an amount of time determined in part by a size and or dollar value of the order and or any other desired amount of time. In some implementations receiving a positive response may include receiving an indication that a control was selected. If a positive response is not received process may end at block .

As indicated at block if a positive response is received process may include transmitting a request to execute a trade fulfilling at least part of the firm order and at least part of the matching order. Other embodiments may include otherwise facilitating the execution of such a trade e.g. executing the trade clearing the trade etc. 

Process may end at block . Other embodiments of process may include receiving information about the execution of the trade displaying information about such execution displaying terms associated with a trade displaying information about an originator of a firm order updating maintaining stored order information and or any other desired actions.

In some embodiments multiple firm orders may match a OMS order. In such embodiments an indication of each such matching order may be provided. In some embodiments the indications may be ordered according to a preference mechanism. Such preference mechanism may include ordering based on preferences of an order originator an indication receiver a computer system administrator and or any other preferences of any individual regarding any characteristics of an order computer system trade etc. In some implementations rather than providing separate indications indications may be pooled into a single indication. Such pooling may include combining multiple firm orders according to some preference mechanism so that the firm orders fulfill the matching order. If additional firm orders exist some implementations may separately provide information about such firm orders. In some implementations even if indications are pooled an interface may be provided that allows a user to access information and enter information e.g. acceptance of orders about individual orders.

In some embodiments process may include additional actions fewer actions and or different actions. Process or a similar process may be performed by any computer system or systems in a centralized and or distributed manner. Process may be performed by one or more computer systems in a centralized and or distributed fashion. In some embodiments only buy side participants may receive firm order queries for matching against OMS orders.

Processes and are arranged to provide convenient illustration of concepts disclosed herein. It should be recognized that no such processes need be performed at all.

In various embodiments some or all communication may be encrypted. In various embodiments some or all information stored in various media may be encrypted. In some embodiments comparisons among information may be made in an encrypted form. In other embodiments encrypted data may be unencrypted before a comparison occurs.

In some embodiments an encryption algorithm such as the well known PGP RSA encryption method may be used for communication among participants computer systems etc. Advances in quantum computing may make such encryption less secure in the future. Some embodiments therefore may include use of quantum key encryption algorithms designed to overcome such vulnerability and or other future proof encryption algorithms.

In some embodiments different users of a system e.g. central system buy side system sell side system trader computer etc. may have access to different options. Because a market may be asymmetrical providing asymmetrical options to such user types may best capture a dynamic of the market. For example in a security trading market participants may be divided into four example categories which may include hedge funds investors brokers and verified naturals. It should be recognized that other embodiments may include different additional alternative fewer and or no categories of users.

Referring to the example four category embodiment investors may include traders that trade on behalf of their own accounts e.g. individuals . Hedge funds may include organizations exempt from standard securities regulation that typically seek high returns for accredited investors. Brokers may include originations that may trade on behalf of others as regulated by standard securities laws. Verified naturals may include brokers that are not acting one behalf of their own proprietary accounts. To become a verified natural a broker may be required to provide proof that they are not trading on behalf of their own proprietary accounts. In some implementations a single user may act as more than one type of user at various times. For example a broker may act as a broker in some situations and a verified natural in other situations. Options and treatment given to such different categories may reflect a likelihood that the participants may be gaming the market.

In some embodiments information provided to users may depend upon a category or type of user. For example users may be limited to receiving certain firm order queries accepting certain firm order matches etc. based on their category. In one implementation for example only buy side participants only may receive firm order queries. In such situations information about possible trade executions with OMS orders may not be provided to sell side participants until and unless a trade is accepted by a buy side participant and or executed.

In some embodiments as discussed above rebates and charges may be given. In some embodiments such rebates and or charges may depend on a category of participant. For example in some implementations investors may be given a rebate for submitting firm orders. In other implementations anyone submitting a firm order may be given a rebate. In some implementations brokers may be charged a fee for each time a OMS order matches a firm order query. In some implementations brokers can opt out of having their firm orders matched against other brokers firm orders because of pricing rebate that allows brokers to be paid for submitting firm orders.

In some embodiments size or other characteristics of a participant may affect a participants options. Some implementations for example may be limited to large participants others to small participants others may allow all sized participants.

Although some embodiments described above execute trades without a negotiation between participants in the trade e.g. with only a buy or reject ignore option presented to participants with matching OMS orders some embodiments may include a negotiation. Such negotiation may be limited in some embodiments to preserve anonymity encourage entering of OMS orders and or limit the possibility of gaming the market.

In some embodiments for example where there are multiple matching orders a negotiation to determine the counter party that is willing to adjust their offer the most may be performed.

In some embodiments if user accepts a matching firm order found from a query the user and or the originator of the firm order may be presented with an option to trade more of the security. By selecting a control in an interface that activates such an option a negotiation may begin between the two participants. Such a negotiation may include asking if the other party agrees to trade more the terms of such a trade etc. Such negotiation may limit the probability of gaming the market since the participants may already be aware of each other from the prior trade.

Some embodiments may include providing rebates or charging fees to trade participants. Such fees and or rebates may be arranged to incentivize participation in certain aspects of a trading system. For example in some embodiments when an order is executed based on a firm order matched with a OMS order the participant that submitted the firm order may receive a rebate and the participant associated with the OMS order may be charged a fee.

Some embodiments may support various types of trades. Such trades may include buying securities selling securities short selling securities and or any other desired types of trades. In some embodiments in which a short sell of a security is performed a location of a purchased borrowed security may be required before a short sell order may be completed.

Some embodiments may include tracking information about one or more participants. For example a trade history a number of trades a type of trades characteristics of trades etc. may be tracked for buy and or sell side participants. In some information a participant may view some or all of such information about itself and or about other participants. In some embodiments such information may be used to generate a rating of a participant. Such a rating may be used for example as a filter of participants querying a participant server.

It should be recognized that while embodiments described herein generally included a computer human interactions e.g. through an interface other embodiments may be performed completely though a computer e.g. a computer may respond to firm order queries etc. .

It should also be recognized that while embodiments described herein generally included various securities trading other embodiments may be used to trade any desired goods or services.

only if the firm order is determined to match the order associated with the order management system providing a representation of the firm order and enabling a binding acceptance of the firm order.

if the firm order is determined not to match the order associated with the order management system suppressing evidence of the determination.

The method of claim C in which facilitating includes at least one of executing the trade and transmitting a request to a remote system to execute the trade.

if an indication of the binding acceptance is not received suppressing evidence of the determination of the match.

The method of claim A in which determining if the firm order matches the order stored by the order management system includes applying a filter to the firm order.

The method of claim A in which the representation is provided to a trader associated with the order management system.

transmitting an order query identifying the firm order to each of a plurality of trading systems for comparison with orders associated with a respective order management system of each trading system 

only if a determination that a matching order is stored in a respective order management system is made and the firm order is accepted receiving a reply from at least one of the plurality of trading systems identifying acceptance of the firm order and

in response to receiving the reply facilitating execution of a trade fulfilling at least part of the firm order.

The method of claim I in which each of the plurality of trading systems includes at least one of a respective order management system and a respective participant system coupled to the respective order management system.

The method of claim I in which receiving the firm order transmitting the order query receiving the reply and facilitating execution are performed by a marketplace.

The method of claim I in which the firm order is accepted by a trader associated with the respective order management system.

The method of claim I in which facilitating execution includes at least one of executing the trade and transmitting a request to a remote system to execute the trade.

if the second firm order has been received facilitating execution of a trade fulfilling at least part of the first firm order and at least part of the second firm order and

if the second firm order has not been received transmitting an order query identifying the first firm order to each of a plurality of trading systems each trading system configured to determine if the first firm order matches an order associated with a respective order management system and to attempt to facilitate a trade if the first firm order matches the order associated with the respective order management system.

The method of claim N in which facilitating the trade includes providing a representation of the firm order configured to allow a binding acceptance of the firm order.

The method of claim N in which each of the plurality of trading systems includes at least one of a respective order management system and a respective participant system coupled to the respective order management system.

The method of claim N in which facilitating execution includes at least one of executing the trade and transmitting a request to a remote system to execute the trade.

a computer system configured to transmit order queries identifying firm orders to each of a plurality of trading systems 

in which each of the plurality of trading systems is configured to determine if the firm order matches an order associated with a respective order management system and to attempt to facilitate a trade if the firm order matches the order associated with the respective order management system.

The method of claim S in which each of the plurality of trading systems includes at least one of a respective order management system and a respective participant system coupled to the respective order management system.

The method of claim S in which facilitating execution includes at least one of executing the trade and transmitting a request to a remote system to execute the trade.

submitting an order for storage by an order management system in which the order management system is configured to allow comparison of firm order queries with orders stored by the order management system and

receiving an indication that a firm order query matches the order the indication allowing a binding acceptance of the firm order query.

The method of claim W further comprising transmitting an indication of the binding acceptance to a marketplace.

The method of claim W in which the binding acceptance includes an indication that a trade should be automatically executed.

Numbering of elements in the below section may not match to numbering of elements in the previous sections. This section provides additional disclosure of relevant material and should not be interpreted to limit any prior disclosures.

Although computers are heavily used to facilitate trading of securities manual intervention is still required at certain steps in the trading process. For example most traders at institutional investment management firms record their orders to purchase or sell securities in computerized order management systems OMS s . However one or more traders at each firm must manually review the orders in the OMS and attempt to fill the orders by contacting one or more market intermediaries. Typically the traders transmit the orders in the OMS by telephone or separate data entry links to registered broker dealers for the securities to electronic marketplaces that trade the securities or to other market intermediaries. Accordingly manual effort is required to actually execute the orders in the OMS.

One problem arising from this manual effort is that institutional traders cannot execute trades involving large quantities of securities without adversely affecting the market price of the securities. For example institutional traders often need to trade large quantities of securities due to the continuing need of investment managers to respond to changes in market conditions by altering the contents of their investment portfolios. As these portfolios increase in size due to increased investor activity the corresponding quantity of securities to be traded in order to achieve a similar portfolio balance also increases. Market impact costs or adverse costs resulting from the institutional traders activities rise in such circumstances because locating parties with whom to trade such large quantities of securities becomes more difficult for the market intermediaries.

Moreover if the market intermediaries become aware that an institutional firm wants to say sell a large block of a particular equity security this awareness is likely to lower the sale price that the institutional firm can obtain due to the normal processes of supply and demand. The effect is also likely to be exacerbated by speculation from others with knowledge of the order as to why the particular investor wishes to sell such a large quantity of the security. Similarly if market intermediaries become aware of the fact than an institutional firm wants to buy a large block of a particular equity security this awareness will likely increase the purchase price that the institutional firm will have to pay. This adverse effect on price is further exacerbated by the fact that traditional market intermediaries trade for their own accounts.

One strategy commonly employed by institutional traders to offset market impact costs is to spread out trade orders for a large quantity of a security into small orders each handled by a different market intermediary sometimes over several trading days. Of course this strategy brings about its own problems in that the market price can change significantly during this extended trading period due to the unforeseeable activities of others.

Another strategy that may be employed is to spread the orders for the security among one or more electronic marketplaces. However the traders must manually transmit each order to the electronic marketplaces using a telephone or a separate data entry link. The fact that the traders need to perform these extra steps which include duplicate entry of basic order data already recorded in the OMS causes many traders to use these electronic marketplaces infrequently and to supply the marketplaces with only a small subset of the total orders. As a result these electronic marketplaces often lack the liquidity required by a trader to timely execute orders.

The lack of integration between the OMS and the electronic marketplaces also poses problems when an institutional trader wishes to trade a particular security simultaneously within an electronic marketplace and for example over the telephone with a traditional broker. For example some electronic marketplaces attempt to find matches at only specific time intervals. If a trader wishes to buy 100 000 shares of IBM and has placed an order for half that amount in an electronic marketplace the trader will not know how much if any IBM stock was purchased until after the next scheduled match attempt. In the meantime the trader potentially could have purchased more than 50 000 shares from a broker over the phone at a better price.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an electronic trading marketplace that does not require any manual intervention by traders or other parties offers anonymity and offers a high amount of liquidity.

The present invention addresses the above need by providing for the automated transmission of orders i.e. without manual trader intervention from the various order management systems OMS s used by investment management firms or other entities having trading systems to an electronic trading marketplace ETM . A firm with a trading system stores information about orders in an OMS to manage its order flow to monitor the initiation placement and execution of orders and for related purposes. Software providing the functionality of an OMS is well known in the art.

OMS interfacing modules OIMs at the firms automatically transmit orders from the OMS s to the ETM and preferably update the OMS s in response to orders executed at the ETM. Traders can communicate with the ETM to anonymously negotiate trades of securities. As used herein a security is an ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract on any security. This description uses the term security for convenience but it should be understood that the term covers financial instruments generally.

The ETM includes an OMS data integration module ODIM for receiving and processing data representative of orders received from the OIMs. In a preferred embodiment the data from the OIMs are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM. The orders processed by the ODIM are stored in an ETM database.

A negotiation module in the ETM supports negotiations between traders. In one embodiment an indications module transmits orders received by the ETM among the traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. These orders are transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications. Based upon these indications traders at one institution can enter into negotiations with traders at other institutions through the negotiation module of the ETM. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously.

A trader authentication module authorizes and authenticates traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. A transaction history module records transactions performed by the ETM in the ETM database. The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example the orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the conducted negotiations.

A typical trading system at an investment management firm or other entity at which trading is performed includes a number of workstations coupled to an OMS server via a network with a trader at each workstation. Each workstation preferably executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions between the trader s workstation and the OMS server. In one embodiment of the present invention the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database. The OMS which includes the OMS server OMS database and TOIM is typically provided by an OMS vendor though some firms have developed their own OMS s.

In connection with the present invention each workstation also preferably executes an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM. The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM. Typically this information includes information about the trader s indications information about other traders indications and orders transmitted to and received by a trader during a negotiation.

The OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities by traders using the trading system. The OIM is in communication with the OMS database and the ETM. An OMS database integration module in the OIM reads data records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment also creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database upon execution of a trade through the ETM. In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an application programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM also includes an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM. In one embodiment the ETM communication module provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM regarding changes to make to the OMS database. In addition the OIM preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of data records sent to the ETM and or received from the ETM. The OIM also preferably includes a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order price order quantity or other category so that those orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

Preferably the OIM transmits to the ETM data records in the OMS database relating to a trader s orders when the trader logs on to the ETM. Once the OIM determines that the trader has logged on to the ETM the OIM retrieves data records about that trader s orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database. In one embodiment the OIM converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM. In another embodiment this functionality is part of the ETM.

After a trader has logged on to the ETM the OIM determines whether the contents of the OMS database have changed. If the OMS database has changed the OIM determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM. In one embodiment the OIM continues to determine whether the contents of the OMS database have changed between the time that a trader logs on to the ETM and the time that the ETM commences trading. In another embodiment the OIM does not commence making this determination until the time that the ETM commences trading.

Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database do not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM. The OIM preferably transmits changes to the database to the ETM if the changes represent new or modified orders.

The OIM preferably updates the database in response to information received from the ETM indicating executed trades or other information. In a preferred embodiment if an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM converts the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS and updates the OMS database accordingly. As a result of these steps the OMS is updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM. The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker so no special functionality needs to be added to the OMS in order to interact with the ETM beyond that functionality described herein.

The trading systems are used by investment management firms or other entities that have established a relationship with the ETM . The trading systems communicate with the ETM to facilitate the trading of securities. As used herein a security is any ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate or bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract. This definition includes for example any note stock bond debenture certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement or in any oil gas or other mineral royalty or lease any collateral trust certificate investment contract voting trust certificate certificate of deposit any put call straddle option or privilege on any of the foregoing or group or index of securities including any interest therein or based on the value thereof . This list is not all inclusive. For purposes of clarity this description will describe the trading of stock.

Within each trading system is a database A B C associated with an order management system OMS . Each OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities collectively referred to herein as orders for securities by traders using the trading system . For example assume that the database A of trading system A contains orders to sell 50 000 shares of DELL and 75 000 shares of MSFT and orders to buy 25 000 shares of CPQ and 100 000 shares of IBM. Also assume that the database B of trading system B contains orders to sell 30 000 shares of CPQ and buy 62 000 shares of T.

The orders in the OMS databases are automatically transmitted to the ETM . Likewise any changes in the orders such as modifications and or withdrawals are automatically transmitted to the ETM . As used herein the term automatically means that the associated action is performed without any human or manual intervention. Thus there is no need for traders to specifically request that individual orders in the OMS databases are transmitted to the ETM orders in the databases are sent to the ETM without the traders input subject to filtering criteria .

Preferably the ETM anonymously transmits information about a trader s orders to other traders using the ETM subject to filtering in accordance with filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. Moreover the ETM preferably manages anonymous negotiations between traders using the trading systems for the purpose of executing the orders and sends data about the completed trades to the OMS s of the traders involved in the transaction.

Thus one embodiment of the present invention selectively broadcasts information about the orders received by the ETM from the database A of trading system A to the other trading systems B C. Likewise the ETM selectively broadcasts information about the orders received from the database B of trading system B to the other trading systems A C. If the traders desire such a trade the ETM will facilitate the anonymous negotiation and sale of 25 000 shares of CPQ from a trader using trading system B to a trader using trading system A.

Data is communicated between the trading systems and the ETM using interfacing links A B C. Any known interfacing technologies can be used to effectuate these links including but not limited to transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP satellite cellular and or radio frequency RF links or some combination thereof. The links may pass through one or more intermediate data processing systems such as telephone switches or Internet servers before reaching the ETM or a trading system . In embodiments where data travels over shared links such as embodiments where data travels over the public Internet the data is preferably encrypted using a secure protocol such as the secure sockets layer SSL .

Data received by the ETM from the trading systems over the interfacing links are received by a firewall . As is known in the art the firewall preferably prevents unauthorized users from gaining access to the rest of the ETM and monitors transfers of data to and from the network.

Data that pass through the firewall are received by one or more modules that perform the functionality of the ETM . As used herein the term module refers to machine executable code and or data but may also include associated circuitry such as processing circuitry as well as data storage areas and or any other software or hardware. Thus it will be appreciated that one or a combination of hardware and software such as a computer system executing software for performing the functionality of the modules may implement each of the modules shown in . It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the ETM may comprise one or more other types of modules circuitry etc. not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring understanding of the invention. For instance the ETM may include one or more microprocessors network connection circuitry and or data storage areas such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM CDROM DVD tape drive hard disk HD and or other types of storage areas. It will also be appreciated that the functionality of multiple modules described herein can be combined into a single module and the functionality of a single module can be split or shared among multiple modules. Moreover alternative embodiments of the present invention can lack one or more of the modules described herein and or have modules not described herein.

The ETM preferably includes an OMS data integration module ODIM . The ODIM receives and processes data representative of orders received from the OMS databases in the trading systems . In a preferred embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM . In an alternative embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in one or more different formats depending upon factors such as the type of OMS used by the trading systems the types of interfacing links supplying the data to the ETM the type of security or orders to which the data pertains and the like. In this latter embodiment the ODIM preferably converts the data into a standardized format for use by other modules in the ETM .

The orders processed by the ODIM are stored in an ETM database . Data in the database are preferably accessible to the other modules in the ETM . In addition the other modules in the ETM can store other data in the illustrated database or other databases as may be required during normal operation.

In a preferred embodiment an indications module transmits information about orders received by the ETM among the various traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. This information is transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications.

Based upon these indications traders can enter into negotiations with other traders through a negotiation module . The negotiation module facilitates negotiations between traders using trading systems and having contra interests. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously in order to limit the spread of information about the traders activities.

A market data module receives real time and other market data from an input . The market data module provides the market data to the negotiation module and to the traders. The traders preferably use the market data during the negotiations to determining market prices for the securities.

A transaction history module records transactions performed by the ETM in the database . The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example information about orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the negotiations conducted successful or not . This module is preferably used to audit the transactions conducted on the ETM .

A trader authentication module authorizes and authenticates traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. In one embodiment the trader authentication module stores authentication information such as a login ID password pair in the database . The trader authentication module also preferably stores profiles for the registered traders.

Other modules that may be present in the ETM include load monitoring modules for monitoring the load on various servers comprising the ETM fault tolerance modules for providing fault tolerance to the ETM security modules for preventing and detecting security violations on the ETM and back office modules for providing back office functionality. These modules are not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily complicating the figure.

In a typical trading system that interacts with the ETM each workstation executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions with the OMS server . In this typical trading system the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database . Contemplated orders may be stored in the OMS database for example because the trader intends to execute certain transactions in stages or because the contemplated transactions are desirable only if the market prices of the securities to be traded are within a certain range e.g. limit orders . Therefore such orders serve as placeholders indicating the total quantity of a security that a trader wishes to transact and conditions for transacting other orders other data in the database indicate the quantity of the security that has been transacted to date.

Each workstation executes an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the EIM is incorporated into the TOIM or other modules on the workstation . The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM . Typically the received information includes information about orders through the indications module and orders through the negotiation module that the ETM receives from other traders or trading institutions. The trader uses the EIM to enter into and transact negotiations to buy and or sell securities through the ETM .

The network connects the workstations to the OMS and to external networks such as the network in communication with the ETM . The network can utilize any networking technology that supports bi directional transfer of data among the OMS workstations and external networks. In a typical embodiment the network is a private local area network LAN installed at a financial institution and interfacing with one or more external gateways. In alternate embodiments the network may be wireless connect devices over a wide area and or at least partially carry data over a public network such as the Internet . Other network components such as a firewall may also be present. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many different types of networks can perform the functionality described herein.

The OMS is preferably comprised of one or more computer systems for executing and maintaining an order management system. The OMS receives instructions from the workstations to create modify and or delete orders and updates the database accordingly. Software providing the functionality of the OMS is well known in the art. Commercial OMS software packages are available from The MacGregor Group Eze Castle Software Advent Software and Decalog to name but a few. In addition some trading institutions utilize custom OMS software.

As described above the database holds data representative of open contemplated or completed orders to buy and or sell securities. is a diagram illustrating a data record stored in the database to identify an order according to one embodiment of the present invention. Different OMS systems utilize different order data records and therefore it should be understood that illustrates only one possible data record. However many OMS systems store the same general information and the illustrated order data record is intended to represent a typical order data record for an OMS system.

The order data record has multiple fields each field holding different information about an order. The Order ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the order associated with the data record . Similarly the Trader ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the trader or other person who placed the order. The Order Status field identifies whether the order is open contemplated completed canceled or any other possible status. The next field Order Last Update Time preferably holds a timestamp that identifies the last time that the data record was modified in any way. This field is useful for determining whether the most recent version of the data record has been considered.

The Transaction Type field preferably indicates whether the data record corresponds to an order to buy or sell a security. The Security Symbol field preferably uniquely identifies the security to be transacted. The Security Symbol field can hold for example a Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures CUSIP number a ticker symbol or any other identifier of the security. The Security Type field is preferably used to interpret the other data in the data record according to the given security type. For example treasury bills are priced in terms of a discount to face value inherent in the pricing formula is the yield that would be obtained if the bill were held to maturity. In contrast equity securities are priced in actual per share values. The information in the Security Type field can also be used to filter out certain types of securities.

The Order Type field preferably indicates whether the order is a market or a limit order although the field can also indicate other order types. If the order is a limit order the Limit Price Field preferably identifies the price set by the trader.

The Total Order Size field preferably identifies the actual number of shares that the trader desires to transact. The Quantity Placed Elsewhere field is a value either equal to or less than the value in the Total Order Size field . In an embodiment of the present invention the ETM uses the values of these two fields to determine a quantity of a security if any that are available to be transacted by the ETM.

Preferably the OMS allows for the possibility that trading a large quantity of a given security may occur over several days at several different venues. For example to fill an order to buy 1 000 000 shares of IBM a trader may need to place an order for 300 000 shares with one broker and record numerous executions of portions thereof until the full 300 000 shares placed with that broker are purchased. If the broker cannot provide additional shares at a suitable price the trader may then place an additional quantity up to the 700 000 shares remaining to be purchased via another broker electronic marketplace or other venue. Preferably the broker enters a placement record into the OMS database to indicate that the trader anticipates executing a portion of the order through the second venue. This second venue may also fill the quantity it was asked to provide in several executions. Thus an order can have one or more placements and each placement can have one or more executions associated with it.

When a transaction is executed in a specified venue such as the ETM a corresponding execution record is preferably stored in the OMS database . is a diagram illustrating an execution record according to an embodiment of the present invention. An execution ID field preferably holds a value identifying the particular execution. As before the Order ID field preferably holds a value that uniquely identifies the order associated with the execution and all executions for the same order preferably have the same value in this field . The Broker field preferably contains an alphanumeric value identifying the venue that performed the execution. The Quantity Executed field preferably specifies the number of securities transacted in this execution while the Price field specifies the price at which the securities were executed. The Timestamp field preferably records the time at which the execution took place.

The OMS interfacing module OIM is in communication with the OMS database via the network or a direct connection. In alternative embodiments the OIM is in communication with the OMS and or the workstations . The OIM is also in communication with the ETM via an external gateway or some other form of network connection. In another alternative embodiment the OIM is integrated into the ETM and is remote from the OMS although some functionality is present at the OMS in order to provide OMS data to the OIM.

In a preferred embodiment the OIM includes a computer system storing and executing software for performing the functionality described herein. In an alternative embodiment the OIM executes on the same computer system as the OMS . In one embodiment the OIM includes an OMS database interaction module for interacting with the OMS database . The OMS database interaction module reads records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database . In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an applications programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM also preferably includes an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM communication module automatically provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM. In addition the OIM also preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of the data records sent to and or received from the ETM and a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order quantity order price or some other factor or category so that filtered orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

Preferably the OIM waits until a trader logs on to the OMS before transmitting data records for that trader to the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM sends a message to the OIM when a trader at the institution in which the OIM resides logs into the ETM. The OIM interprets this message as a sign to commence receiving orders. In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM uses other techniques such as querying the OMS database for specific entries listening for an inter process message sent by the OMS polling individual trader workstations or implementing a timer based algorithm to determine that a trader has logged on to the OMS .

Once a determination is made that a trader has logged on to the OMS the OIM retrieves data records about orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database . In one embodiment of the present invention all open orders are suitable for transmission to the ETM . In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM through the filtering module makes the determination of suitable orders based on other criteria such as the security type e.g. stock or bond security name e.g. IBM or T order type e.g. market or limit order order quantity and or order price.

If necessary the data record conversion module within the OIM preferably converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM . As described above the functionality of the data record conversion module can also be performed by the ODIM in the ETM . Alternative embodiments of the present invention may send the data records individually or in multiple batches. The data transmitted to the ETM depend on factors such as the types of securities being traded and or the fields required in order to accurately trade such securities.

If the database has changed the OIM preferably determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM . Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database do not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM . Thus the OIM determines whether the change to the database reflects a new order of a type that is traded in the ETM . If so then the OIM retrieves the pertinent data for the order from the database . If the change does not reflect a new order then the OIM preferably determines whether the database change pertains to a modification of an existing order that has already been sent to the ETM . If so the OIM retrieves the data records corresponding to the modified order from the database . Once the appropriate data records if any are retrieved from the database the OIM preferably converts the data records into the appropriate format and transmits the records to the ETM as described above with respect to .

The OIM initially determines whether an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM. The step may be performed for example by receiving a message from the ETM identifying a particular execution that occurred at the ETM by filtering a list of all executions or other data from the ETM for executions listed in the OMS or by periodically polling the ETM for performed executions.

If an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM converts the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS . Then the OIM updates the OMS database with the converted execution data. As a result of these steps the OMS is updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM . The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker.

In summary the present invention includes an electronic trading marketplace that generates liquidity at least in part by receiving order information directly from the databases of OMS systems at trading institutions. Since orders are extracted from the OMS databases automatically and information about executed orders is inserted into the databases automatically the OMS databases see the marketplace as just another market intermediary. Moreover traders are able to conduct trades in the electronic marketplace without any duplicative manual efforts.

The above description is included to illustrate the operation of the preferred embodiments and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. From the above discussion many variations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art that would yet be encompassed by the spirit and scope of the invention.

