---

title: System and method for determining valid citation patterns in electronic documents
abstract: A system and method are provided for comparing portions of document text with potential citation components, determining if individual portions correspond to a citation component, and determining if a set of portions correspond to a valid citation pattern. A set of valid citation patterns is provided. Each citation pattern may include a specified combination of citation components. The invention further relates to identifying potential citation components from text in a document, analyzing a pattern of the identified citation components by comparing the pattern to a set of stored citation patterns to determine if the potential citation is a type of citation, and if so, is it a valid (and/or invalid) citation pattern. Once citation patterns have been determined in the document, annotations may be inserted into the document, and subsequent action may be taken, for example, generating a list of citations, providing research services, error-handling, and/or providing other options related to the citations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019769&OS=08019769&RS=08019769
owner: Litera Corp.
number: 08019769
owner_city: McLeansville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080118
---
The invention relates to a system and method for determining valid citation patterns in electronic documents.

Many times a list of the citations to authority appearing within a document is desired. The list of citations may include for example a Table of Authorities TOA endnotes a bibliography a table a chart a list or other summarizing feature for citations. For example most U.S. federal state and local courts federal and state agencies and other tribunals require briefs to include a Table of Authorities which is a table of cases statutes and other authorities listed alphabetically with references to the pages of the brief where they are cited.

Various word processing applications such as Microsoft Word have features that enable a user to manually mark citations found in the word processing document as a TA Table of Authorities Entry field code and that automatically generate a TOA based on those codes. This process is often time consuming and error prone however because it requires the person marking the document to not only have advanced knowledge of how to mark the document but also to have familiarity with the myriad of rules and exceptions defined for example in the or in other citation systems.

A number of commercially available software applications exist that enable a user to automatically generate a TOA for citations within an electronic document. In many such systems a key word searching mechanism is used to locate known reporters jurisdiction or court clauses to identify citations in a document. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 028 259 and 7 003 719 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describe known citation identification processes of this kind.

Several drawbacks may be associated with use of the known art. For example the known algorithms usually require a legal citation software application to analyze each word in a document. Consequently determining valid citations in the document may be time consuming depending on the length and complexity of the document. Additionally key word searching algorithms can become long complicated and difficult to maintain especially if the original programmers are no longer available to consult on revisions . Hence changes in the citation systems or in the programming language can result in extensive code changes. Moreover the known algorithms may be written in a programming language that is specific to a certain platform and may not be easily portable to another platform without incurring significant costs for example to rewrite code .

Moreover CiteLink has created an extraneous 13 category subheading which appears to be an unnamed TOA category. It appears as though CiteLink did not know what to name the category so a default number was chosen. For example Microsoft Word by default contains sixteen TOA categories. All sixteen categories are numbered with the first categories having common standard names e.g. cases statutes etc . Further the categories can have their names changed or names assigned to them. This can be done manually or in an automated fashion.

In reviewing it is evident that the existing citation software applications lack a consistent level of accuracy and completeness in recognizing and identifying various citations including for example lengthy and complex source strings for generating a list of citations.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks of existing citation software applications relates to a system and method for comparing portions of document text with potential citation components determining if individual portions correspond to a citation component and determining if a set of portions correspond to a valid citation pattern.

According to one aspect of the invention the system stores citation component criteria. For example for each of a number of citation components a set of citation component criteria may be provided. The citation component criteria may include various syntax rules and or other criteria for identifying characteristics of a particular citation component. According to one aspect of the invention regular expressions may be used to define syntax rules for characterizing a citation component. The regular expressions may include individual characters sets or sequences of characters strings words terms expressions and combinations thereof for describing patterns of text in a document. Other tools and techniques may also be used.

According to one aspect of the invention the system stores a set of valid citation patterns. Each citation pattern may include a specified combination of citation components which together define a pattern. According to one aspect of the invention regular expressions may be used to define syntax rules for characterizing a citation pattern.

One aspect of the invention relates to identifying potential citation components from text in a document analyzing a pattern of the identified citation components by comparing the pattern to the set of stored citation patterns to determine if the potential citation is a type of citation and if so is it a valid citation pattern. According to one implementation the pattern analysis determines whether the identified citation components are ordered associated adjacent juxtapose and or otherwise related in the manner according to one of the set of stored citation patterns. In some implementations this may be a Boolean operation.

Once valid and or invalid citation patterns have been identified in the document annotations may be inserted into the document text and subsequent action may be taken for example generating a list of citations providing research services error handling and or providing other options related to citations.

According to one aspect of the invention a software application may provide various modules for performing the above mentioned tasks. The software application may include a graphical user interface module a storage module a citation processing module that may further include a citation component identification module a citation component pattern matching module and a short cite module an annotation module an action item module a citation list generator module and an interface module.

According to one aspect of the invention the graphical user interface module controls the various display features of the application and allows the user to interact with the application using a computer.

According to one aspect of the invention the storage module maintains the set of citation components along with their associated sets of citation component criteria. In addition the storage module contains the set of citation patterns along with the associated set of citation components.

The citation processing module may include a citation component identification module to analyze text in a document and identify portions of text which correspond to one or more stored citation components which may be found in the document. In addition the citation processing module may include a citation component pattern matching module that analyzes a pattern of the identified citation components by comparing the pattern to a set of stored citation patterns to determine if the potential citation is a type of citation and if so is it a valid citation pattern.

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module may maintain an index of the valid citation patterns determined in the text of the electronic document along with information regarding full cite and short cite forms for each citation pattern therein. In some implementations the index may include a single entry for each authority cited to in the document.

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module may also include a short cite module which automatically generates one or more citation patterns corresponding to short cite forms for each valid citation pattern determined in the document text.

According to one aspect of the invention an annotation module may be provided which generates computer readable indicators and or visual indicators corresponding to portions of text determined to be valid and or invalid citation patterns. One or more computer readable indicators such as smart tags field codes TA Table of Authorities field codes hidden codes flags or other indicators may be used that signal to the software application that that portion of text is a valid citation pattern. Similarly one or more visual indicators which may include a change of font e.g. underlining italics size font type color or other font parameter an icon a symbol and or the presence or absence of other indicia that visually signal to a user that that portion of text is a valid and or invalid citation type. In some implementations a computer readable indicator and a visual indicator may be the same. Also in some implementations different indicators may be provided depending on the type of citation. In one implementation the same indicator may be used for valid citation pattern corresponding to the same authority in order to signal to the application and or the user that those citation patterns are related.

According to one aspect of the invention an action item module may be provided that allows the user to select various options associated with each valid and or invalid citation pattern. The options may be static dynamic or customized based on different citation types. In one implementation an information icon which provides a drop down action menu when the uses clicks on or hovers over the icon may be provided. Various options may be presented to the user within the drop down action menu according to the type of citation associated therewith. Such actions may include but are not limited to an option to link to an external website or to a commercial electronic database or research service such as LexisNexis Westlaw FindLaw or LoisLaw. The actual document e.g. a case a statute an article or other source that the citation refers to or related documents may also be retrieved. Depending on type of citation documents or information may be retrieved from different sources for example from free or proprietary services. In addition legal professionals may be presented with an option to Shepardize the citation.

According to one aspect of the invention the software application may also include a list generator module to generate a list of the valid citation patterns determined in the electronic document. The list of citations may include for example a Table of Authorities TOA endnotes a bibliography a table a chart a list or other summarizing feature for citations. The list generator module may rely on the computer readable or visual indicators which were previously inserted by the annotation module and or the index of citations maintained by the citation processing module and or the index of citations.

According to one aspect of the invention an interface module may be provided to allow the software application to connect to various devices as needed thereby allowing the software application to transmit and or receive information and data there between. The interface module may be configured to connect to external data sources. In one implementation the interface module may connect via a network to a server such as a third party external server. A request to the electronic database or research service may be in the form of an electronic message to a third party API Application Programming Interface for example the LexisNexis Web Services Kit API. The request may be processed immediately by the service and a response message may be returned by the service. Returned documents or other results may be presented to the user by way of the interface display in an application such as a research task pane within the document processing software.

According to one aspect of the invention a method is provided for determining valid citation patterns in an electronic document. First the software application opens and or processes an electronic document. A user may interact with the document through the graphical user interface module. The electronic documents may comprise documents generated by any of a number of software applications e.g. word processing applications spreadsheet applications or other software applications .

Next the citation processing module scans text in the electronic document and identifies portions of text which correspond to one or more stored citation components which may be found in the document. The citation component identification module initially compares portions of text in the document against the set of stored citation component criteria to determine potential citation components in the document text. Then the citation component pattern matching module determines whether a pattern of the identified citation components matches a stored citation pattern. The pattern analysis determines whether the identified citation components are ordered associated adjacent juxtapose and or otherwise related in a manner according to one of the stored citation patterns. In addition the short cite module may automatically generate citation patterns for short cite forms for each valid citation pattern determined in the document text and determine short cite forms and id. Ibid recitations in the document text.

For those citations which are determined to be valid citation patterns annotations may be inserted into the electronic document by the annotation module. The annotations signal to the software application and or the user that one or more valid citation patterns are located in the document text. Each valid citation pattern may be individually identified in the document text. The annotation module may generate computer readable indicators and or visual indicators corresponding to portions of text determined to be valid citation patterns. In some implementations the annotation module may associate valid citation patterns including those to short cites and id. recitations corresponding to the same authority.

Conversely if a pattern of the identified set of citation components is not determined to be a valid citation pattern but appears to correspond to a stored citation pattern i.e. some but not all of citation components of a particular citation pattern are satisfied it may be flagged or otherwise identified by the annotation module for possible error handling.

According to one aspect of the invention once valid and or invalid citation patterns have been identified in the document text subsequent action may be taken by the software application and or the user. For example the user may select various options and or functions associated with each valid citation pattern. In one implementation an information icon which provides a drop down action menu when the user clicks on or hovers over the icon may be provided for each valid citation pattern in the document. Included in the drop down menu may be options to link to an external website and services to retrieve the actual document that the citation refers to to Shepardize the citation and or other options related to citations.

According to one aspect of the invention a list of citations may be generated and inserted within the document or other location automatically or at the direction of the user by the list generator module. The user may select the location and the type of list to generate for example from a menu. The list of citations may include for example a table of Authorities TOA endnotes a bibliography a table a chart a list or other summarizing feature for citations. Further the user may choose to insert the list at the beginning the end of document or anywhere else in the document that the user so desires. Alternatively the software application may automatically generate the list of citations based on default parameters when the user selects an option to do so. In generating a list of citations the list generator module may rely on the computer readable indicators that were previously inserted by the annotation module and the index of valid citation patterns determined in the document.

According to one aspect of the invention returned documents and or other results may be presented or displayed to the user by way of the interface display in an application such as in a research task pane within the document processing software.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and accompanying drawings figures and the appended claims.

According to an aspect of the invention and with reference to an exemplary system architecture will first be described. In one implementation a user may create access manipulate or store one or more documents of varying file type via a computer . Computer may comprise but is not limited to a desktop computer portable computer e.g. a laptop computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA network enabled appliance or other device. According to one aspect of the invention a software application may be provided for determining valid citation patterns in electronic documents which may be executed by a processor of computer .

In one implementation and with reference to computer may comprise a processor interfaces memory and storage devices which are electrically coupled via bus . Memory may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory and may store computer executable instructions to be executed by processor as well as data which may be manipulated by processor . Storage devices may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other known storage mediums for storing computer executable instructions and or data. Interfaces may comprise interfaces to various peripheral devices e.g. a keyboard a mouse microphones external storage devices monitors printers or other input and or output devices as would be appreciated by those having skill in the art as well as other components as described herein.

According to an aspect of the invention a user may run any number of various types of software applications on computer . In some implementations a user may utilize computer to access any number of various types of software applications hosted including application for example by one or more servers such as server . In some implementations computer may be networked directly to server or operatively connected to server over a network via a wired or wireless communications link. Network may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Storage Area Network SAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN or other network. Any suitable communications link may be utilized including any one or more of for instance a copper telephone line a Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection a Digital Data Service DDS connection an Ethernet connection an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN line an analog modem connection a cable modem connection wireless connection or other connection. Although not illustrated server may comprise include and or interface to one or more databases or other data storage or query formats platforms or resources for storing and retrieving various types of data.

According to an aspect of the invention shows a software application that may be provided for determining valid citation patterns in electronic documents. The electronic documents may comprise documents associated with any number of software applications e.g. word processing applications html editing applications spreadsheet applications presentation and development applications web browsing applications or other software applications .

According to an aspect of the invention and with reference to application may comprise one or more software modules that enable the various features and functionality of the invention. Non limiting examples of the modules of application may include a graphical user interface module a storage module a citation processing module which may further include a citation component identification module a citation component pattern matching module and a short cite module an annotation module an action item module a citation list generator module and an interface module .

One or more of the modules comprising application may be combined. For some purposes not all modules may be necessary.

According to an aspect of the invention application may be created using any number of programming languages including but not limited to Microsoft Visual Studio Tools for Office VSTO Visual Basic.Net or Visual C .Net. Of course any number of hardware implementations programming languages and operating platforms may be used without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. As such the description or recitation of any specific hardware implementation programming language and operating platform herein is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting.

The graphical user interface module controls the various display features of the application and allows the user to interact with the application using a computer . The graphical user interface module may interact with the computer s operating system and or one or more software applications. In one implementation application may comprise a stand alone software application running on computer . Alternatively server may host application thus requiring a user of computer to access server over network to use the application. In some implementations a user may download application from server to be run on computer with program updates made available over network as needed or on a predetermined regularly scheduled basis.

In an alternative implementation application may be a plug in that is incorporated into a third party software application including for example but not limited to a word processing application a spreadsheet application an HTML editing application a presentation and development application or other application. The third party software application may comprise an application running on computer or an application hosted by or downloaded from server via network . Other configurations may be implemented.

According to one aspect of the invention each citation pattern is composed of various citation components. For each of a number of citation components a set of citation component criteria may be provided. According to one aspect of the invention the citation components may be characterized according to stylistic rules and standards defined according to various systems of citation.

In one implementation the application may be used with documents containing legal citations conforming to the stylistic rules and standards defined in past present and future editions of the Bluebook the Association of Legal Writing Directors Style Manual by Darby Dickerson ALWD the New York Law Reports Style Manual NYLR Style Manual the California Style Manual California Style Manual by Robert E. Formichi and for any other legal citation style manuals approved or created by U.S. federal and state courts agencies and other tribunals university law reviews and or other entities. In addition to legal citations the application is also applicable to other fields and endeavors where citations to authorities are customarily used e.g. medical business and finance engineering and scientific fields academia or education or other professions .

While reference is made to the Bluebook herein it will be appreciated that one or more citation systems may be similarly utilized and that any reference herein to the Bluebook is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting.

According to one implementation regular expressions may be used to define syntax rules for characterizing citation components and citation patterns. For example several computer languages and utilities including UNIX utilities Perl grep .NET and Java recognize regular expressions or regex . However other tools and techniques may also be used.

Table 1 illustrates some regular expression syntaxes that may be used to define syntax rules for characterizing citation components according to an aspect of the invention. The regular expressions may include individual characters sets or sequences of characters strings words terms expressions and combinations thereof for describing patterns of text in a document.

According to one implementation regular expressions may be created for example using VSTO and known as a document level customization. A document level customization may comprise a managed code assembly that is attached for example to a Microsoft Word document. Document level customizations with VSTO may be used for example according to by Eric Carter and Eric Lippert Addison Wesley Professional Sep. 8 2005 the entirety herein incorporated by reference. The assembly may be linked or associated to the electronic document but is stored separately for instance in memory or remotely on a server or network drive. According to one implementation a word processing document may be linked with a managed code assembly that is compiled into a dynamic link library .dll file by VSTO.

As previously mentioned the citation components may be created for any desired citation format and only a few possible examples are shown herein. According to one aspect of the invention the set of citation component criteria may include various syntax rules and or other criteria for identifying characteristics of a particular citation component. In each of entries in Table denotes a citation component first column and its associated set of citation component criteria second column . In some implementations each set of citation component criteria may have a header e.g. in entry associated with it so that it may be individually referred to.

Different citation types may use different combinations of citation components. However not every combination of components may be in fact a valid citation pattern.

According to one implementation a basic legal case citation pattern may include for example a first party citation component versus citation component a second party citation component a reporter volume citation component a reporter abbreviation citation component an initial page and a court and date citation component according to the Bluebook. See . These components of a legal case citation may be reflected in the construction of a pattern of citation components.

Other components of a basic legal case citation which may be optional or supplemental in nature include for example a pinpoint page citation component prior and subsequent history citation component explanatory phrases citation component and weight of authority citation component. If one or more of the optional or supplemental legal citation components is are present in the text of the electronic document then the optional or supplemental legal citation component or components may be recognized by the relevant citation component criteria. However if an optional or supplemental legal citation component or components is are absent from the text of the electronic document then a validly formed legal citation which contain any of the above described components may still be deemed a valid legal citation pattern.

According to an aspect of the invention and with reference to entry in Table is an exemplary illustration of an introductory signal citation component. Introductory signals are typically used with legal citations to present authorities and show how the authorities relate to propositions referred to in textual statements within the citation. The introductory signal citation component may not form a part of a legal citation but may be used in connection with legal citations and may be helpful in identifying citation components. According to its citation component criteria the introductory signal may include known introductory signals e.g. see compare accord etc. .

Entry is an exemplary illustration of first party citation component using many of the syntaxes in Table 1. According to its citation component criteria the first party may define a first party of a legal case as having one or more words beginning with initial capital letters or lower case letters or numbers. This citation component criteria also denotes certain lower case articles and prepositions which are permitted to appear in a first party citation component .

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a versus citation component using many of the syntaxes in Table 1. According to its citation component criteria versus may define a versus field as having a space followed by the letter v followed by a period and a space.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a second party citation component using many of the syntaxes in Table 1. According to its citation component criteria the second party may define a second party of a legal case as not beginning with the word No. followed by one or more words beginning with initial capital letters or lower case letters or numbers. This citation component criteria also denotes certain lower case articles and prepositions which may be permitted to appear in a first party field. In one implementation this citation component criteria may include a construct which performs a lookahead. A lookahead which may be identified with the pattern syntax effectively allows a regular expression to peek ahead at subsequent characters. In this case the lookahead may check to determine if the next characters are 1 a comma followed by a space followed by one or more digits 2 a period followed by one or more spaces 3 a semi colon followed by one or more spaces or 4 one or more spaces.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a docket number citation component. According to its citation component criteria the docket number may begin with either of the words Case or No. followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a skeletal citation component. According to its citation component criteria the skeletal citation begins with a comma followed by a space which in turn is followed by zero or more underscores which are followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a reporter volume citation component. According to its citation component criteria the reporter volume citation component may comprise from one to four numbers followed by a space. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a reporter abbreviation citation component. According to its citation component criteria a reporter abbreviation citation component may comprise any number of digits large and small letters spaces and punctuation marks followed by a space which is in turn followed by any number of digits large and small letters spaces and punctuation marks. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of an initial page citation component. According to its citation component criteria an initial page citation component may comprise any number of digits large and small letters spaces and punctuation marks followed by a space which is in turn followed by any number of digits large and small letters spaces and punctuation marks. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a publishing service citation component. According to its citation component criteria the publishing service citation component begins with three or more capital letters in any combination enclosed by parentheses followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of an initial subdivision citation component. According to its citation component criteria the initial subdivision citation component begins with a space followed by zero or more section or paragraph symbols followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of an Internet citation component. According to its citation component criteria the Internet citation component may begin with a comma space and the words available at followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a pinpoint citation component. According to its citation component criteria the pinpoint citation component may begin with a comma space and is followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a reporter table citation component. According to its citation component criteria the reporter table citation component may comprise the word table enclosed in parentheses. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a first parallel citation citation component. According to its citation component criteria the first parallel citation citation component may comprise various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a first parallel pinpoint citation component. According to its citation component criteria the first parallel pinpoint citation component may begin with a comma space and is followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a second parallel citation citation component. According to its citation component criteria the second parallel citation citation component may comprise various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a second parallel pinpoint citation component. According to its citation component criteria the second parallel pinpoint citation component may begin with a comma space and is followed by various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of an early American citation citation component. According to its citation component criteria the early American citation citation component may comprise the names of the editors who were responsible for compiling cases for publication along with various combinations of spaces characters and punctuation. This citation component may be optional in some implementations. This citation component may be optional or supplemental in some implementations.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a court and date of decision citation component. According to its citation component criteria a court and date of decision citation component begins with an opening parentheses and is followed by any number of characters except a closing parentheses. This is in turn followed by a closing parentheses.

In one implementation one or more of the citation components form a citation pattern. Depending upon the specified combination of citation components a citation pattern may become fairly extensive. Moreover it will be appreciated that a citation pattern may not require all of the citation components in Table . In some implementations one or more of the citation components may be optional or supplemental used as alternatives or may not even be used at all.

In some implementations a citation component may be comprised of one or more other citation components. Likewise a citation pattern may be comprised of one or more other citation patterns. Once created the citation components and citations patterns may be used again and again in various ways by the application . In other implementations breaking down citation components and or citation patterns into one or more smaller citation component and or citation patterns may be more efficient for pinpointing where the start of certain types of citations e.g. citations to books newspapers law review articles and other sources begin.

According to an aspect of the invention and with reference to each citation pattern may include a specified combination of one or more citation components. In one implementation each of entries in Table corresponds to a citation pattern first column and a specified set of citation components second column .

According to one aspect of the invention each citation pattern includes not only its constituent citation components but it also defines a pattern of those citation components. In one implementation the set of citation components define a particular pattern between ordered adjacent associated juxtapose and or otherwise related citation components that must occur in the text to have a valid citation pattern for that type of citation. In some implementations each citation pattern may be characterized by a regular expression formed by combining the regular expressions corresponding to its constituent citation components into a single regular expression. For example when combining regular expressions each regular expression may be separated by parentheses for denoting the start and end of a subpattern and or other regular expression syntaxes as desired e.g. a before the parentheses may indicate that a citation component is optional or supplemental .

Entry in Table is an exemplary illustration of a General Legal Case citation pattern which may include a set of citation components that would be used to cite a general legal case for example according to the rules of the Bluebook.

According to one implementation a General Legal Case citation pattern may include the following set of citation components signal first party versus second party docket number skeletal citation reporter volume number reporter abbreviation initial page publishing service internet citation pinpoint reporter table first parallel citation first parallel citation pinpoint second parallel pinpoint second parallel citation pinpoint early American citation and court and date of decision .

Similarly citation patterns corresponding to each of entries to in Table may be similarly formed from sets of citation components for example according to the rules of the Bluebook and or other citation systems.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Federal Statute citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to the name of the act abbreviation of the code cited e.g. U.S.C. section symbol and span of section containing statue and the date of code edition cited.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Federal Regulation citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to the abbreviation for the regulations e.g. C.F.R. title number abbreviation of set of regulation cited section symbol and specific section cited and the date of code edition cited.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Federal Rule citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to the abbreviation of set of rules cited and the number of rule cited.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Constitution citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to the abbreviation of the constitution cited abbreviation for the article cited number of amendment cited section symbol and number of section cited.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Treaty citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to the name of the treaty abbreviated names of the parties to the agreement date of signing and the U.S. treaty source. In other implementations the Treaty citation pattern may have citation component that have citation component criteria including the terms treaty U.N.T.S. U.S.T. or other indicia of a treaty. In some implementations the date of signing may be an optional citation component.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of a Court Document citation pattern which may include a single citation component having a set of citation component criteria corresponding for example to a common court and litigation document name such as affidavit brief deposition motion order transcript record or other court documents which may usually be enclosed in parentheses and or followed by a period or semi colon.

Entry is an exemplary illustration of an Other Authority citation pattern which may include a set of citation components corresponding for example to a Signal the Volume Author 1 Author 2 Title Page cited Parenthetical information Publisher Edition and Year. In some implementations multiple citation patterns may be used for one or more of books newspapers articles and other sources which may be more specific for each source.

In one implementation the storage module maintains one or more citation patterns along with their associated sets of citation components. The storage module also maintains a set of citation component criteria for each citation component. Storage module may include one or more separate files tables databases or other electronic data storage means maintained on one or more storage devices of computer .

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module scans text in a document to determine potential citations therein. The citation processing module may include a citation component identification module that analyzes text in a document and identifies portions of text that correspond to one or more stored citation components which may be found in the document. In some implementations the comparison may be a Boolean operation.

In one implementation the citation component identification module may begin at the first character of the document and continue character by character until the end of the document along with footnotes endnotes tables and or other portions of the document . In other implementations the citation component identification module may start at the end of the document and proceed to the beginning of the document or by some other scanning algorithm. According to one implementation the portions of text which match the citation component criteria may be marked or otherwise identified in memory as a citation component and may further include an indication of the type of citation component.

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module may also include a citation component pattern matching module that analyzes a pattern of the identified citation components identified by the citation component identification module by comparing the identified pattern to a set of stored citation patterns. In some implementations the comparison may be a Boolean operation. According to one implementation the identified citation components in the document text which match the stored citation pattern may be marked in memory as a valid citation pattern and may further include an indication of the type of citation.

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module may also include a short cite module for automatically generating a citation pattern for short cite forms for each valid citation pattern determined in the document text. For example the Bluebook and many other citation systems refer to the first recitation to an authority as a full cite and permit using an abbreviated citation form or short cite form when subsequently referring to that authority.

According to one aspect of the invention the citation processing module may maintain an index of valid citation patterns determined in the document text along with full cite and short cite forms for each citation pattern. In one implementation the citation processing module may utilize a hashtable for the index. A hashtable is a data structure which contains an array of values for each of the entries therein. Each entry in the index may correspond to an independent authority cited to in the document. For example the citation processing module may search the index with respect to valid citation patterns determined by the citation component pattern matching module to determine whether the authority corresponding to that citation component has previously been indexed. If not a new entry may be created. In some implementations the citation processing module may alert the user to multiple occurrences of the same full cite form in the document text.

With knowledge of the individual citation components for citation patterns the short cite module may automatically generate one or more citation patterns for short cite forms for each valid citation pattern determined in the document text which may be added to the set of citation patterns. In some implementations the citation patterns generated for short cite forms depend on the type of citation according the Bluebook or other citation system.

According to one aspect of the invention the set of citation patterns may also include a citation pattern for id. recitations. The Bluebook and other citation systems permit the use of id. Ibid when citing to the immediate preceding authority. In one implementation the citation pattern for id. recitations may include a single citation component having a set of citation component criteria corresponding for example to id. Id. Ibid or other citation terms for referring to the same authority optionally followed by various digits characters punctuations and terminating in a period. In some implementations citation patterns for short forms of a citation once created and id. recitations may be handled just like any other citation pattern and stored in storage module . In alternate implementations they may be handled differently by the application.

The application when implemented for example within Microsoft Word recognizes citations components and citation patterns within an electronic document. According to one implementation VSTO includes a regular expression engine which may be utilized to match regular expressions with portion of document text. The VSTO procedure GetRegexData for example may read in a regular expression corresponding to the citation patterns and citation components from the storage module into the memory and or one or more storage devices of the computer . VSTO performs matching in a top to bottom sequence. However other regular expression engines may handle regular expressions in a different manner.

According to one implementation the application may work in close cooperation with the Microsoft .NET Framework. In the Microsoft .NET Framework regular expression support is provided by over half a dozen classes as part of the System.Text.RegularExpressions namespace. Three of these classes are illustrated in Table 2 below and may be utilized for tasks that involve regular expressions.

In other implementations the Match or MatchCollection classes do not need to be called directly by the programmer because the underlying VSTO architecture takes care of the pattern matching. The programmer simply provides the regular expression and VSTO and .NET which includes the regular expression engine take care of matching text in the document with the regular expression.

Thus instead of performing the known key word searching algorithms a one to one comparison between each citation component criteria and the document text is performed to identify relevant portions of text matching the one or more citation components. Similarly the application analyzes a pattern of the identified citation components by comparing the pattern to one of more stored citation patterns.

According to one aspect of the invention and with reference to three exemplary legal case citations are shown along with how the citation components in which define the General Legal Case citation pattern may correspond thereto.

As illustrated in the citation components corresponding to the legal case citation 477 U.S. 57 1986 satisfy the sets of citation component criteria for the citation components and . As will be appreciated not each and every of the citation components need to be matched. Indeed some of the citation components may optionally be required in accordance with rules of the Bluebook as discussed above with respect to . Thus whether the citation component criteria is present or not does not matter. In this non limiting example only the first party versus second party and court and date of decision citation components were required.

In the citation components corresponding to the legal case citation . No. 77 Civ. 1782 S.D.N.Y. Dec. 30 1977 satisfy the sets of citation component criteria for citation components and . This legal citation does not satisfy the set of citation component criteria for the optional reporter volume number citation component reporter abbreviation and initial page citation component that were illustrated in . However as stated above in this implementation these citation components are optional or supplemental and thus do not necessarily have to be present for determining a General Legal Case citation pattern .

Each of the above examples shown in was determined to be a valid citation pattern because their patterns of the identified set of citation components match the stored General Legal Case citation pattern .

However consider another example in which the document text contains a malformed legal case citation for example 477 U.S. 57. In this example citation components for the first party versus the second party the reporter volume number the reporter abbreviation and initial page will be successfully identified. However the court and date of decision field in is required according to the rules of the Bluebook but is missing. Thus no portion of this citation pattern will satisfy the set of citation component criteria for the court and date of decision citation component and the pattern of the identified citation components does not match the General Legal Case citation pattern . As such the portion of text corresponding to the pattern of the identified citation components will not be deemed a valid citation pattern for a General Legal Case citation pattern .

Thus a required legal citation rule in accordance with rules of the Bluebook or other citation system may be enforced by using an appropriate set of citation component criteria for each citation component. As a result malformed or invalid legal citation patterns in documents which do not conform to the set of citation components for a particular citation pattern may be ignored and or error handling may occur.

According to one aspect of the invention the annotation module may generate annotations corresponding to portions of text determined to be valid and or invalid citation patterns. In one implementation one or more computer readable indicators such as smart tags field codes TOA Table of Authorities field codes hidden codes flags or other indicators may be used that signal to the software application that that portion of text is a valid citation pattern. Similarly one or more visual indicators which may include a change of font e.g. underlining italics size font type color or other font parameter an icon a symbol and or the presence or absence of other indicia that visually signal to a user that that portion of text is a valid citation type. In some implementations the computer readable indicator and the visual indicator may be the same. According to one aspect of the invention the annotation module may associate valid citation patterns according to entries in the index of citations maintained by the citation processing module . In some implementations the annotation module may associate a valid citation pattern for short cite forms to the particular citation pattern that was used to create it.

In some implementations the annotation module may associate a valid citation pattern for an id. recitation with the immediate preceding valid non id. citation pattern. In that way valid citation patterns including those for short cite forms and or id. recitations which correspond to a single authority i.e. a common entry of the index may be similarly handled for example when generating a list of citations. In one implementation the same or related annotations may be used to associate valid citation patterns corresponding to a single authority.

Conversely in other implementations if the identified set of citation components is not determined to be a valid citation pattern but otherwise appears to correspond to a stored citation pattern i.e. some but not all of citation components of a particular citation pattern are satisfied it may be flagged or otherwise identified by the annotation module for error handling.

According to one aspect of the invention the annotation module may insert a computer readable indicator into the document text to indicate an invalid citation pattern. When a list of citations is generated by the list generator module these invalid citations patterns may be listed under the error category subheading in the list of citations. In another implementation those portions of text may be copied to a separate file.

According to one aspect of the invention the user may be presented with various options to configure the application for error handling. In one implementation the user may select one or more citation components for each type of citation that must be successfully identified for error handling to occur. For example with regard to the general legal case citation the user may select that the citation components corresponding for example to the first party versus and the second party must be identified before error handling occurs. In this scenario the combination of the aforementioned citation components likely corresponds to a General Legal Case citation pattern but where the one or more other required citations components is missing and or malformed. Once identified as being problematic the user or the application may take remedial measures. Portions of text determined to be an invalid citation pattern but which include the citation components selected by the user may be copied to a file and presented to the user e.g. in a pop up window such that the user may edit them.

In other implementations the user may be provided with tips and or suggestions as to how to fix or edit the citation and or one or more citation components. For example by knowing which citation components were not properly identified in the document text the application may present the user with one or more rules from the Bluebook corresponding to those citation components. Other error handling tools and techniques may also be used such as fuzzy logic a dictionary feature and or a spell checker function. Alternatively invalid citation patterns may be simply ignored altogether.

According to one aspect of the invention the action item module allows the user to select various options and functions associated with each valid and or invalid citation pattern. The options may be static dynamic or customized based on different citation types.

In one implementation an information icon which provides a drop down action menu when the user clicks on or hovers over the icon may be provided. The information icon may be associated with a computer readable indicator such as a smart tag that may be inserted by the annotation module . Various options may be presented to the user within the drop down action menu according to the type of citation associated therewith. Such actions may include but are not limited to an option to link to an external website or to a commercial electronic database or research service such as LexisNexis Westlaw FindLaw or LoisLaw. The actual document e.g. a case a statute an article or other source that the citation refers to may also be retrieved and or a related document. Depending of the type of citation documents or information may be retrieved from different sources for example from free or proprietary services. In addition legal professionals may be presented with an option to Shepardize the citation.

According to one aspect of the invention the software application may include a list generator module to generate a list of the valid citation patterns identified in the electronic document. The list of citations may include for example a Table of Authorities TOA endnotes a bibliography a table a chart a list or other summarizing feature for citations.

In one implementation the list generator module may use the annotations inserted into the document by the annotation module to generate a list of citations and or the index of citations maintained by the citation processing module . For example a Table of Authorities TOA may be generated. The list generator module may associate a particular category with one or more type of citations. In some implementations the annotation module may insert a computer readable indicator for a particular type of citation which the list generator module associates with a particular category of the TOA. The list generator module may also rely on the index of citations maintained by the citation processing module for referencing full cite forms and or short cite forms for a particular citation when generating a list of citations. For example the list generator module may use the full cite form for a citation pattern when generating a list of citations.

In some implementations although a particular citation pattern may include for example ten legal citation components if that same citation pattern is included in a list of citations e.g. a Table of Authorities some of the citation components may be omitted from the list of citations in keeping with general practice. By contrast in the existing software applications a programmer might have to add additional code to that portion of the program in order to accomplish the same task.

According to one aspect of the invention the interface module allows the software application to connect to various devices as needed to transmit and or receive information and data there between. The interface module may be configured to connect via the network to the server such as a third party external server. A request to the electronic database or research service may be in the form of an electronic message to a third party API Application Programming Interface for example the LexisNexis Web Services Kit API. The request may be processed immediately by the service and a response message may be returned by the service. Returned documents or other results may be presented to the user by way of the interface display in an application such as a research task pane within the document processing software. In some implementations interface module may also provide a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address for linking to a service or information.

Depending on the particular citation pattern documents or other information may be retrieved from different sources for example from free or proprietary services. For example many documents such as legal cases and statutes may be available for downloading for free for example from a government website. Other documents such as books journal articles newspapers or other materials may only be available from a proprietary service or website e.g. LexisNexis or Westlaw . By knowing a particular type of citation the interface module may connect to one or more services associated with that particular citation pattern. The interface module may also include for example account information for one or more research or informational services such as log in and password data. Further the interface module may assign and maintain different account profiles for different users including access to and or different rights with respect to each service.

In one implementation legal professionals and their staff may perform research on legal citations recognized in a legal document and perform a verification to ensure that the citation is still considered good law. This is known in the art as Shepardizing. The ability to verify and update a legal citation is central to effective case law research. The response may include requested information in the form of an XML document. Returned documents may be presented to the user by way of an interface module for example in a separate element such as a window distinct from the electronic document a separate application a separate document or an element within the electronic document or software application. In one implementation a research task pane within the document processing software may be used.

In an operation an electronic document containing legal citations is opened in an application. The electronic documents may comprise documents generated by any of a number of software applications e.g. word processing applications spreadsheet applications or other software applications . For example users may open an electronic document or create a new document from a template just as they would open any other electronic document. The opening and or creating of the document may also be accomplished through a document management system such as Hummingbird Interwoven Documentum or Worldox .

In an operation citation components are identified in the document text by matching portions of the text with one or more citation component criteria. First a set of citation patterns and citation components along with their associated sets of citation component criteria and may be retrieved from the storage module and transferred or copied to memory of computer for faster processing. Next the citation processing module scans the document text. The document text may be initially compared against one or more sets of citation component criteria by the citation component identification module . In one implementation a one to one comparison may be made using a simple Boolean operation. If a portion of text matches a citation component criteria then that portion of text may be identified in memory as a citation component and may include information indicating the type of the citation component.

In an operation the citation component pattern matching module analyses a pattern of the identified citation components identified in operation by comparing the pattern to the set of stored citation patterns. The portions of text which are determined to be valid and or invalid citation patterns may be stored in memory and may include information indicating the type of the citation. As valid citation patterns are determined they may be added to the index of citations maintained by the citation processing module . In addition the short cite module may automatically generate one or more citation patterns for short cite forms for valid citation patterns determined in the document text. The citation patterns for the short cite forms may be added to the set of stored citation patterns. The index of citations may store full cite and short cite forms for a valid citation pattern

In some implementations operations and may be performed in a simultaneous manner. In other implementations operations and may be sequentially and or iteratively performed.

In operation both valid and or invalid citation patterns recognized in the document text in operation may be annotated. The annotation module generates computer readable indicators and or visual indicators corresponding to portions of text determined to be valid citation patterns. Different indicators may be provided depending on the type of citation. In operation subsequent actions may be taken by the user and or the application once valid and or invalid citation patterns have been determined in the document. Subsequent actions may include generating a list of citations performing research error handling and or other options related to citations. The processing ends in operation .

In one implementation when the user hovers the mouse pointer over the area of text defined by the smart tag an information icon may be displayed. By clicking on the information icon a drop down action menu may be presented to the user. The action menu may include a list of options that the user may select for example using a mouse or other interface device to execute with respect to the citation. Such actions may include but are not limited to an option to link to an external website or to a widely used commercial electronic database or research service such as LexisNexis Westlaw FindLaw or LoisLaw.

In one implementation a research task pane in a software application e.g. Microsoft Word may be modified for displaying information returned from the electronic database or research service along with the electronic document. For example the active document pane and the research pane may be displayed in a side by side arrangement. Alternatively the panes may presented in a tiled or cascaded arrangement. In one implementation the results of Shepardizing a citation may be displayed in a research pane.

The full cite may be generated from the actual values of the constituent citation components for a valid citation pattern In this instance the full cite was generated from actual values of the citation components for the valid general legal case citation pattern corresponding to the exemplary citation pattern . In some implementations the full cite form may omit certain citation components according to the Bluebook or other citation systems. In this example the pinpoint to page corresponding to the pinpoint citation pattern has been omitted from the full cite .

One or more citation patterns may be automatically generated from the short cite forms. According to the Bluebook and other citation systems a general legal case may have multiple short cite forms which may include an abbreviated or shortened name of the case short name and an abbreviated or shortened citation of the case which refers to the reporter volume and reporter abbreviation and one or more specific pages reference to short form . For example the short name may be determined from actual values of the first party citation pattern or the second party citation patterns for citation pattern . Generally short names are underlined or italicized in the document text. In one implementation the short cite module may further determine a particular type of formatting e.g. font from actual values of citation components for short cite forms. In some implementations the short cite module may also exclude certain terms such as Matter of et al. or other procedural phrases as well as commonly used litigant names such as State or U.S according to the Bluebook and or other citation systems. In addition according to the California Style Manual and or other citation systems an author might indicate a specific short cite case name to use by enclosing the short name in parentheses usually preceded by the word hereafter when first introducing the authority in the document. In one implementation the short cite module may simply use the explicit short cite term s occurring in parentheses and or occurring immediately hereafter as the short name.

The short form may be determined from the reporter volume reporter abbreviation and or initial page citation components. In contrast to the general legal case citation pattern which is used to determine valid citation patterns for any legal case in the document text the short name and short form are specific to a particular citation pattern e.g. citation pattern determined in the document text.

Citation is to the United Nations document. Element is a computer readable indicator inserted by the annotation module . In this implementation the computer readable codes inserted by the annotation module were Microsoft Word TA Table of Authorities Entry field codes. Referring to citation the complete citation has been correctly recognized and inserted into the TOA under the category subheading International Treaties Protocols and Resolutions. The TA field code includes an indicia c9 which may be associated with the category subheading International Treaties Protocols and Resolutions in the TOA by the annotation module and the list generator module . Other field codes may include different indicia which correspond to different categories in the TOA .

In addition citation is to the treaty to which the United States is a party. Field Code was inserted by the annotation module . A review of the TOA shows that the application was successful in identifying the full name of the citation and added it as citation under the correct category in the TOA .

Citation is to an individual shorter work within a volume of collected works by various authors. Field Code was inserted by the annotation module . Citation in the TOA shows that the application was successful in recognizing the complete citation.

Also citation is to a Federal Law. This citation contains a rather long title. Field code was inserted by the annotation module . Referring to citation in TOA indicates that the application has accurately recognized the complete citation.

A review of illustrates that the application has successfully recognized all of the citations patterns corresponding to actual citations contained in the exemplary document text many of which were ignored or incorrectly identified by the existing software applications in . By accurately finding and marking valid legal citation patterns in a document for example a legal brief reduces the task of manually marking the document thereby enabling the legal professionals and their staff to focus on other more urgent tasks.

By contrast to the existing software applications illustrated in the application may achieve near pinpoint accuracy in recognizing legal citation patterns in document text especially with respect to non legal citation pattern such as books periodicals magazines newspapers and other citations where the starting point of such citations may be nebulous and difficult to determine through existing software applications. The application may advantageously perform these actions without any intervention on the part of the user. Thus the system may require less human intervention than existing software applications to assist in finding and validating legal citations.

As can be appreciated from the foregoing implementations of the application provide for a more effective and efficient method of validating legal citations. The application is able to determine relevant portions of document text faster or more accurately. In the existing software applications the process of validating a legal citation may involve long and complex code. By contrast using a set of citation patterns only a minimum number of comparisons may be needed to validate a legal citation.

Moreover long and complex code associated with key word searching algorithms may be eliminated and updates to a citation pattern may be made faster and more manageable. Changes may only need to occur to an individual citation component and or citation pattern instead of multiple lines of code. Thus the application may be able to determine relevant portions of document text much more efficiently.

While this invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment it is to be understood that it is capable of further modifications and is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiment and this application is intended to cover any variations uses equivalent arrangements or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and followed in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

