---

title: Method for forming a connector for an implantable medical device
abstract: A connector assembly for an implantable medical device with hardware components placed in established physical locations within the polymer of the connector, and a method of making the assembly. One embodiment includes a method that involves forming a first shot, coupling at least one hardware component to the first shot to form a subassembly, placing the subassembly between a set of opposing areas of a mold, moving at least one of the areas of the set of opposed areas of the mold to constrain the subassembly within the mold, and introducing a second shot over at least a portion of the subassembly to form the connector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08673194&OS=08673194&RS=08673194
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08673194
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080505
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 916 208 filed May 4 2007 incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to an implantable medical device IMD and more particularly to a connector that interconnects electronic components housed in the IMD to one or more electrically conductive elements in a medical electrical lead.

Implantable medical devices IMDs detect and deliver therapy for a variety of medical conditions in patients. The human anatomy includes many types of tissues that can either voluntarily or involuntarily perform certain functions. After disease injury or natural defect certain tissues may no longer operate within general anatomical norms. For example after disease injury time or combinations thereof the heart muscle may begin to experience certain failures or deficiencies. Certain failures or deficiencies can be corrected or treated with implantable medical devices IMDs such as implantable pacemakers implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD devices cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator devices implantable pulse generators IPGs or combinations thereof.

ICDs typically comprise inter alia a control module a capacitor a battery that are housed in a hermetically sealed container. A lead is coupled to the container through the connector. When therapy is required by a patient the control module signals the battery to charge the capacitor which in turn discharges electrical stimuli to tissue of a patient. IMDs provide therapeutic and or diagnostic capabilities. It is desirable to develop new IMD components such as a new connector to interconnect the lead to the container.

The present disclosure relates to a connector that electrically and mechanically couples a medical electrical lead to electronic components in the housing of an implantable medical device IMD . One embodiment of the connector includes a first component of polymeric material connected to hardware that is then overmolded with polymeric material. The first component includes a pair of opposing areas for securely holding the first component by opposing clamping areas of a mold. The clamping areas allow areas of the mold to hold the first component from opposing sides upon closing of the mold thereby providing positional stability of the first component and one or more hardware components attached thereto. While the mold securely positions the first component an encapsulation polymer is then injected over at least a portion of the first component and allowed to cure. Upon curing the mold can then eject the connector.

Referring to connector is electrically and mechanically connected to a housing . The housing generally consists of two sides and that are seam welded around or along a perimeter to form a hermetic seal between two sides and . The housing protects the internal components of the IMD that inter alia includes an electronic module assembly EMA . Exemplary internal components could be hybrid circuitry battery or other IMD components. One or more feedthroughs are configured to conduct electrical signals including signals such as radio frequency signals through the housing wall while maintaining a hermetic environment within the housing .

The connector is attached to a receiving area of the housing . Attachment of the connector to the housing can be by any suitable means for example by the use of one or more straps that accept corresponding pins that are placed through corresponding holes within the connector . Optionally attachment of the connector to the housing can be accomplished or assisted by the use of medical adhesive such as a silicone based adhesive placed between the connector and the housing . Other suitable attachment means can also be used to couple connector to the housing such as laser welding resistance spot welding various fasteners etc. Optionally connector may contain a radiopaque for the purpose of device model identification through X ray imaging.

A plurality of interconnect ribbons ICRS protrude from the thermoplastic material at the bottom of the connector including an ICR ribbon dedicated to the antenna . Each ICR ribbon connects to a feedthrough wire on the EMA to a setscrew block multi beam contact MBC antenna or other suitable component s contained within the connector . Optionally a radiopaque cavity may be present for receiving a radiopaque into the cavity and can subsequently be covered by a medical adhesive such as NUSIL 2000 commercially available from NuSil Technology LLC located in Carpinteria Calif. The radiopaque could also be overmolded without using radiopaque cavity . Connector optionally includes a set of apertures or holes for receiving elongated medical leads.

Referring back to and a crisp line of distinction referred to as a knit line or interface area depicted between the first component and the overmold portion . However upon overmolding and if a thermoplastic polymer is injected as the overmold material the interface area between the first component and overmold portion can be a blurry interface area. For example at the interface area melting can occur at the edges of the first component in the interface area between the first component and the overmold polymer as the heated overmold plastic flows over it causing it to mix with the overmold portion . The amount of melting and mixing between the two is highly dependant on the part design as well as mold design particularly how and where the mold for overmolding is gated and the location of the gate or gates.

Referring now to details of a first component are depicted. This is the same first component introduced in the exemplary connector of . At the top and back of the first component there is a channel for the purpose of accepting or receiving an antenna hardware component. The channel is defined by a ridge on either side of the channel for the purpose of constraining the antenna hardware component upon coupling or installation of the antenna adjacent the first component . At the top of the first component and at the end of the channel there is a pair of front sacrificial staking features that are melted so as to cover and hold the front of the antenna upon coupling of the antenna adjacent the channel surface as shown and the accompanying text but with exception of the melting of the staking features that are not shown melted in .

The first component has a specific clamping area that enables the first component to be held by the mold upon closing of the mold. While being held an overmold operation where a second shot or layer of thermoplastic material is introduced to the mold over at least a portion of the first component. Preferably the clamping area is an integral feature with the back suture hole . However the clamping area need not be integrated with the rear suture hole as a requirement for having a clamping area. In fact the suture hole is considered an optional feature and there are other designs for overmolded connector for various other types of IMDs that do not have suture holes and nevertheless would be able to make use of the inventive aspects of the clamping area .

First component can be configured to hold or support hardware components including MBC multi beam contact receptacles or receptacles setscrew blocks . The MBC are referred to herein generically as MBC multi beam contact the MBC area shown as a generic cylindrical assembly that houses the multi beam contacts themselves. The respective hardware components can be installed into the receptacle type openings. Also channels can be configured to receive and or hold ICRs.

The first component in one embodiment is formed of a thermoplastic material that is the same material as that of the overmold portion . Using the same thermoplastic material for both the first component and overmold portion provides the same melting points thereby promoting good adhesion between the materials upon overmolding. The materials for the first component and overmold portion may be different and allows for compatible melt temperatures if the adhesion between the parts once overmolded is adequate for their intended use. Intended use may vary greatly among different connector for example if the connector contains components that supply high voltage therapy then the connector design may have different design requirements versus connector that houses a component that only sees low voltage. There may also be connector designs where it is desirable to have the first component and overmold materials be different from each other to achieve different performance characteristics for the respective areas of the finished connector . The construction method for the first component is preferably injection molding but could also be a machining process or a combination of a molding process and a machining process.

Coupling or installation of hardware components to the first component is shown in . A subassembly is formed by installing hardware components adjacent to the first component . The setscrew blocks are installed into setscrew block receptacles that are called out in the exploded view and likewise the MBC are installed into MBC receptacles . In some embodiments the setscrew blocks and MBC may be oversized relative to their corresponding receptacle in the first component such that a press fit exists upon installation of the component. In one embodiment the press fit acts to hold the component to the first component .

The ICR can be installed into channels and thereby coupled with the first component . Preferably the channels are sized in localized areas so as to create a press fit between the channel of the first component and the ICR upon installation of the ICR into the channel . The ICR can comprise niobium titanium stainless steel or other conductive material. The ICRs are attached to their corresponding set screw block or MBC typically by a welding brazing or soldering operation.

Referring now to . optionally the ICR can be grouped with other ICRs through the use of an ICR plate . Grouping a set of ICRs together can reduce the number of components to handle as well as speed the process of installing the ICRs to the channels of the first component . The ICR plate is a manufacturing aid that can be removed at a later operation. The grouping of ICR into a single ICR plate can be determined by ICR that have like characteristics for example ICR that are installed to the same side of the first component . In the case of the lone antenna ICR or another single ICR the ICR plate can represent a single ICR. Optionally separate ICR plates can be joined together by attachment to a single weld plate . The weld plate binds the ICR plates together for ease of installation to and alignment with the mold. Again optionally the ICR plates have position holes that correlate to weld plate holes using these holes pins can be inserted through the holes in order to force alignment between the ICR plates and the weld plate . Held in this manner the weld plate can be attached to the ICR plates by opposed electrode resistance spot welding or by any other suitable joining process. At a later operation after the overmolding of the subassembly the weld plate and ICR plates can be removed by cutting at the ICR trim point .

The antenna can be constructed out of any suitable metal with acceptable biocompatibility and RF performance properties the antenna in the preferred embodiment being constructed out of Titanium. The antenna is coupled to or installed into a dedicated channel on the first component so that the antenna is adjacent the first component . Sacrificial staking features at the front and back are designed to hold the antenna adjacent to the first component upon a staking operation. The dual front staking features are positioned to either side of the antenna tip and act to hold the antenna once they have been staked and at which point they become pressed onto the tip of the antenna thereby covering it with first component material and holding it. Upon installation of the antenna within the channel of the first component the single back staking feature becomes positioned at the inside of the last U portion of the antenna or where the serpentine portion of the antenna reverses. Upon staking of feature the polymer of the feature is compressed and expands out over the antenna thereby holding the antenna adjacent to the bottom of the channel of the first component . The method of staking the features and is preferably ultrasonic staking but could also be heat staking or any other suitable method to melt and reposition the polymer that defines staking features and so that they are pressed onto and thereby hold the antenna to the first component . As an alternative to the method of staking or in addition to it the antenna width could be oversized relative to the width between the ridges so that a press fit is created to hold the antenna in a fixed position to the first component .

Note that other methods of coupling the setscrew blocks MBC ICR antenna or other hardware component to the first component are possible and would be compatible with the present disclosure in so far as the hardware component is sufficiently held to the first component during the overmolding operation so that there is no undesirable movement of the hardware component relative the first component . Any movement between first component and the hardware component correspondingly impacts the position of component within the finished connector . The overmolding operation subjects the subassembly of first component with hardware to considerable turbulence and will be described in greater detail later in the description. However it is the ability to withstand the overmold operation with proper positioning of the hardware component that defines if the hardware component is adequately attached to the first component .

Referring now to depict a side view and a cross sectional view of the exemplary connector of and constructed using the example first component and subassembly from . depicts the section indicated in that slices through the center of the rear suture hole and first component clamping area . The first component is encapsulated by overmold material with the exception of the clamp area where the first component is exposed and abuts the overmold polymer. The exposed area of the first component in the clamping area allows for direct contact with an area of the overmold mold tooling and allows the mold tooling hold location from opposing sides during injection of an overmolding thermoplastic material. By holding the first component in this manner the subassembly comprising first component with a hardware component is held in a fixed position during high pressure injection of the overmold polymer. Consequently first component and adjacent hardware components are securely held in a stationary position.

Upon inspection of the finished connector in the area where the first shot abuts the overmold polymer adjacent the clamp area there will be apparent a knit line . The knit line can be determined upon visual microscope inspection or cross sectioning of the connector . A knit line delineates an interface formed of a set of points or a planar surface between the first and the second components . The knit line is created after a first shot of polymeric material forms into the first component followed by a second shot of polymeric material introduced over the first component . The second shot of polymeric material forms the second component or overmold portion . The knit line directly abuts itself between the first and the second components . A knit line can also occur where different polymers or different shots abut one another.

Referring now to an exemplary subassembly formed of a first component with a hardware component can be prepared for introduction into a mold used for overmolding. depicts a leadbore core pick out which is simply a removable section of the mold of . The leadbore pick out allows for subassembly to be introduced into a mold that is then used for performing an overmolding operation. The leadbore pick out has a main body and leadbore core pin features that protrude therefrom. The core pin may be a separate piece of steel that is press fit or otherwise installed into the main body . Each of the core pin is designed with a profile to engage in a slip or press fit with the corresponding shape of the openings in the first component of the subassembly and provides the inverse opening that will be created in the finished connector upon introduction of an overmold polymer during the overmold operation.

The leadbore core pin pick out assembly is an optional component of the mold used as one method to introduce the subassembly into the mold. The use of a pick out is not required to enable the invention and it is foreseeable that the invention may be practiced without such a feature and instead relying solely on the inventive clamping features on the first component to hold the subassembly within the mold. Furthermore not all connectors provide apertures for the installation of lead and in such instances the use of a pick out that engages the leadbore openings would not be applicable although such a connector may nonetheless be overmolded.

Referring now to an exemplary mold is depicted for performing the overmolding operation. depicts a perspective view of an injection mold that is used for an overmolding operation where thermoplastic material is introduced over the subassembly of first component with adjacent hardware component s . The mold has a top section a first side and a bottom section a second side . The mold can also have side pulls on either side with only the right side pull visible and the left side pull not shown in this view but that is opposite the right side pull

Now referring to an exemplary sequence of operations of the mold is introduced in . The view shown in these figures is a cross section view through the same location as that of sectioned through the clamping area of the first component . The sides of the mold and can each be constructed out of a single piece of material or can be constructed out of multiple pieces of material.

In the mold is shown in a fully open position as it would conceptually appear during placement of the optional leadbore core pin pick out assembly into the mold. In the open position the top of the mold is in a raised position and the respective side pulls and are in an open position that is moved away from each other and the first component . Not shown in this view the first component is held suspended by the leadbore core pin pick out . In the open position shown the holding or clamping areas of the mold do not yet contact the clamping areas of the first component .

In the mold is shown in a partially open position with the top of the mold now in a closed position and that is the next sequence in the mold closing from that described in . The respective side pulls and are still in an open position and therefore the holding areas of the mold do not yet contact the clamping areas of the first component .

In the mold is shown in a fully closed position with both the top of the mold and the sides of the mold and in a closed position. In this closed position the holding area of the mold on both the right side of the mold and the left side of the mold area adjacent the points of contact with the clamping area on each respective side of the first component . Through these opposing points of contact the first component and hardware components fixed thereto are held by the opposing sides of the mold and

The amount of clamping force that is generated by the opposing points that interlock with the first component is adjustable by sizing the width of the first shot between the clamping areas . For example if the width of the first shot in this area is enlarged then there will be a corresponding increase in the clamping force provided by the two opposing sides of the mold . In another embodiment only one of the two opposing sides of the mold applies clamping force wherein the other side remains stationary. It is preferred that there is some amount of clamping force. However the fit can also be line to line and thus not generate any clamping force yet still provide adjacent physical constraint by the mold for the first component during overmolding.

In an alternative embodiment to that shown in for example the molding of a connector with no leadbores the first component could be placed on one side of the clamping area and could be held there by gravity if the mold were tilted 90 degrees or by a press fit or slip fit of the first shot clamping area with one side of the mold holding area. Upon fully closing of the mold the first shot would become fully clamped by the mold. This method of holding the first shot would be in lieu of the method described above associated with where the first shot is held in the mold by the leadbore core pin pick out.

The next operation optionally involves loading the subassembly created in optional operation onto a lead bore core pin pick out. One way to accomplish the loading operation is to use a pick out that holds the assembly created in operation and allows for its placement into a mating feature within the mold. Next in optional operation the lead bore core pick out from the previous operation is loaded into the open mold . Other ways to load the assembly from can be through the use of robotics or a mold that opens in a way to facilitate insertion of the assembly directly into the mold such methods operations would be in lieu of operations and .

Next in operation the mold transitions from an open position to a closed position. There are many possible variations to how the mold may be devised to open and close. For example with the use of cams and or other mechanisms the mold may be designed to split apart from multiple directions different than discussed here. The closing or opening action of the mold sections can also occur simultaneously or in various sequences. However regardless of variations in mold design or the sequence that the various mold segments close there is at least one pair of areas of the mold having contact areas that are opposing and that sandwich dedicated areas of the first shot upon closing of the mold. This contact between the mold and the first shot can be in the form of a line to line fit between the two components or the fit can be such that the first shot is oversized in the area of contact with the mold and therefore the mold causes some compression onto the first shot when the mold is fully closed. This holding of the first shot by the mold allows the first shot to be fixed in a rigid position during the overmold operation which has associated high pressures that are used to inject the overmold polymer. There may also be more then one clamp location such as a plurality of clamp locations that are designed into the first shot and mold. In particular multiple clamp locations may be useful in the creation of connector that do not have any lead interconnects and therefore no leadbore first shots to assist with holding the first shot during overmolding.

Processing continues in operation where molten thermoplastic material is introduced into the mold while the mold is held in a closed position for example by using a press. This operation is referred to as overmolding. The aspects of the claimed invention and how the first shot is held within the mold can apply to any one of a number of overmolding operations. For example it is possible for there to be multiple overmolding procedures such as a secondary overmold layer that is at least partially covered by a third overmold layer or even further overmold operations beyond this. The molten thermoplastic material is generally introduced into the mold cavity at a high pressure for example in the range of 12 000 to 15 000 psi. Due to the high pressure there is considerable turbulence that is generated within the mold cavity and considerable force applied to the first shot upon injection of the polymer. The opposed holding of the first shot by the mold helps to prevent movement of the first shot and hardware components attached thereto during the turbulent introduction of the molten thermoplastic material. Once the mold is fully filled pressure is typically maintained on the injected thermoplastic material to prevent or at least reduce any sink marks on the final component. In operation the mold is cooled as the pressure on the injected thermoplastic material is generally maintained. Cooling can be accomplished by any acceptable method known by those skilled in the art of injection molding. In operation the mold can be opened and the part removed or ejected from the mold. Generally operation can be initiated once the injected thermoplastic material is adequately solidified. In the final operation the ICR plate and weld plate can be trimmed by cutting at the ICR trim point . Note that operation is optional depending on if the hardware component contained in the connector includes an antenna or ICR and also depending on the design of those components.

Although the above description relates to a particular type of connector adapted to contain setscrew blocks MBC ICR antenna and with provision for the coupling of five leads it may be noted that the invention may be utilized to produce any type of connector having any number or type of hardware components and that may or may not support the connection of medical leads. Thus the above description and various embodiments of the specific connector set forth above should be considered merely exemplary in nature. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

