---

title: System and method for monitoring and management of utility usage
abstract: A system and method is provided to enable consumers to intelligently manage their consumption of energy. In one embodiment, waveform data is collected for a plurality of appliances which may be found in a residential or commercial setting using a plurality of multi-port outlet monitoring devices. The collected waveform data is processed and analyzed to obtain power consumption profiles that indicate power consumption on a per-appliance and/or per-outlet basis and/or per user basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433530&OS=08433530&RS=08433530
owner: ThinkEco, Inc.
number: 08433530
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080918
---
The present invention generally relates to methods and systems for utility usage monitoring and management.

With serious concerns regarding global warming on the rise civic and corporate efforts to improve energy conservation have steadily increased. Major US cities for example have independently vowed to reduce their emissions level to 7 below 1990 levels by 2012. New developers perhaps in response to rising market and civic pressures have started to adhere to standards set by the US Green Building Council s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED program. Finally many corporations are initiating green corporate energy marketing campaigns and increasing green product lines wherever possible.

In response to increasing media coverage of global warming the average consumer s desire to reduce carbon emissions is at an all time high with 61 of the population seeing global warming as a real concern. Unfortunately there are no cost effective and systematic ways today to convert this desire into a rigorous measurable conservation effort. On one hand typical and easy ways for individuals to conserve resources are very hard to quantify e.g. taking shorter showers . On the other serious conservation efforts such as solar energy conversions are very expensive and require significant lifestyle changes. Furthermore when consumers do try to conserve they are unable to see the impact of their collective efforts. This lack of information discourages conservation efforts and may partly explain why most people rely on corporations and the government to spearhead the majority of green efforts.

Within this context households are unfortunately becoming a growing source of COemissions. Scientists believe that electricity generated by coal plants contributes to 25 of US COemissions. According to 2005 figures a remarkable 20 of electricity that is distributed to residential commercial or industrial endpoints is wasted. This amounts to 1.2 10lbs of COemitted per year. And as house sizes have increased and electronic devices become more widespread the fraction of wasted electricity attributable to the residential sector grew from 23 in 1950 to 30 in 2005.

Meanwhile the cost of electricity has increased much faster than inflation. Nationwide average utility bills increased by an average of 30 from 2003 to 2008 the sharpest jump since the 1970s energy crisis. This has posed severe challenges for many family budgets and the number of households falling behind on utility payments and of utility shutoffs has soared.

Most of the increase in electricity cost is due to an increase in the cost of fuels. The cost of many forms of coal nearly doubled from summer 2007 to summer 2008 and the prices of natural gas which closely tracks the price of oil has soared in recent years. Nuclear power is expensive and requires very large investments and also suffers from the taint of weapons programs and NIMBY based opposition. Hydroelectric power is difficult to scale further since most rivers that can be dammed have already been. Solar and wind energy are expensive and remain very small scale. It is therefore unlikely that any combination of the above will scale up to meet new demand within the next few years let alone to satisfy the potential policy goal of reducing coal usage. Consequently many of the highest impact solutions to our energy problems will be those that allow individuals to control and reduce their electricity demand.

What is needed is a technology that can a help empower the average consumer to take control of his her electricity consumption by collecting data at a sufficiently granular level to promote conservation and b allow the consumer to see the cumulative quantitative impact of her her conservation efforts in conjunction with other consumers. Furthermore the technology should be easy to install and use thus motivating individuals to act on their growing eco consciousness and desire to save money. By doing so the technology would help to reduce the free rider problem inherent in energy usage today and decrease our overall carbon footprint.

It therefore is an object of the invention to enable consumers to intelligently manage the consumption of electricity by multiple users and or multiple loads within a residential or commercial setting.

It is a related object of the invention to provide a system and method for collecting waveform data for a plurality of appliances that may be found in a residential or commercial setting using multi port outlet monitoring devices OMDs to obtain power consumption profiles that indicate power consumption on a per appliance and or per location basis and or per user basis.

As a method for enabling a consumer to intelligently mange the consumption of energy by multiple users and or multiple loads within a residential or commercial setting one embodiment of the invention includes at least the operations of independently metering waveform data comprising at least one characteristic of electrical energy consumed by a plurality of loads by a corresponding plurality of multi port monitoring devices OMDs independently metering waveform data by at least one of the multi port monitoring device OMD from among the plurality of multi port monitoring devices OMDs at least one characteristic of electrical energy consumed by at least two loads simultaneously coupled to respective lower and upper outlets of the at least one of the multi port monitoring devices OMDs transmitting the waveform data to a system controller and analyzing the waveform data at the system controller to determine at least one energy consumption profile.

As a system for enabling a consumer to intelligently manage the consumption of energy by multiple users and or multiple loads within a residential or commercial setting one embodiment of the invention includes at least a plurality of multi port outlet monitoring devices OMDs wirelessly connected to a system controller that collects and analyzes waveform data. Each multi port outlet monitoring device OMD being associated with one or more corresponding common household appliances that identifies at least one electrical load of the consumer site. The system controller includes means for receiving waveform data e.g. voltage and current values measured by the respective multi port outlet monitoring devices OMDs a memory associated with the system controller for storing the waveform data and at least one processor for computing parameter values related to power consumption from the waveform data to obtain information related to power consumption and means for distributing the power consumption related parameter values to interested parties.

As a computer readable medium including at least computer program code for enabling a consumer to intelligently manage the consumption of energy by multiple users and or multiple loads within a residential or commercial setting one embodiment of the invention includes at least computer program code for independently metering waveform data comprising at least one characteristic of electrical energy consumed by a plurality of loads by a corresponding plurality of multi port monitoring devices OMDs independently metering waveform data by at least one of the multi port monitoring device from among the plurality of multi port monitoring devices OMDs at least one characteristic of electrical energy consumed by at least two loads simultaneously coupled to respective lower and upper outlets of the at least one of the multi port monitoring devices OMDs transmitting the waveform data to a system controller and analyzing the waveform data at the system controller to determine at least one energy consumption profile. The computer code may include the further operation of resolving the waveform data according to user time location or appliance or combinations thereof.

In the following discussion numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. But those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known elements have been illustrated in schematic or block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. Details concerning network communications electromagnetic signaling techniques and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not considered necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention. Such details are considered to be within the understanding of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

The present description illustrates the principles of the present disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes so that the reader can understand the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art. These examples are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

The functions of the various elements shown in the figures may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM and nonvolatile storage.

Other hardware conventional and or custom may also be included. Similarly any switches shown in the figures are conceptual only. Their function may be carried out through the operation of program logic through dedicated logic through the interaction of program control and dedicated logic or even manually the particular technique being selectable by the implementer as more specifically understood from the context.

The term appliance as used herein refers to any device that may be electrically coupled to a wall socket.

The terms multiplexing or muxing and mux as used herein refers to the generation of a single combined data stream from two or more input streams of data.

The term de muxing as used herein refers to the inverse process of muxing where one recovers the original signals that have been multiplexed.

The term waveform data as used herein refers to current and or voltage as a function of time. It may also refer to the power as a function of time.

According to embodiments of the invention a metering system and associated method is provided for metering the consumption of electrical energy by multiple loads and or multiple users within a residential or commercial setting. The metering system of the invention is suitable for use with existing residential electrical distribution systems without modification.

According to one aspect of the invention energy consumption data may be used to compute consumption profiles of consumer sites e.g. participating households . The energy consumption profiles may also be used to compute an aggregate energy consumption profile of a group of consumer sites e.g. a community town county etc. . Further the consumption profile associated with a particular monitored appliance along with an aggregate consumption profile of similar appliances may be used to identify actual energy consumption differences between the monitored appliance and the energy consumption of similar monitored appliances.

According to another aspect of the invention the energy consumption profiles may be aggregated from each consumer site and communicated to a centralized proprietary database dedicated to consumer electricity and appliance usage data. Generic demographic information may be generated from the data for use in cross referencing against individual consumer consumption data. In some embodiments the types of information that may be collected may include for example consumer electricity and appliance usage patterns electrical consumption patterns of appliances and geographic breakdown of electricity consumption patterns. The information may be used to inform customers about best practices on electricity consumption vis vis collected real use data on appliances which will drive increased awareness among customers to purchase energy efficient electrical appliances. This will in turn drive appliance makers to make their appliances more energy efficient and appealing to consumers. In an embodiment geographic and demographic data are collected pertaining to how electricity is being used which may be of strategic value to the pricing practices of power companies and policy making of government affiliated agencies.

According to one aspect of the invention energy consumption may also be identified per consumer site member. Looking beyond the specific consumer site the system provides capabilities to provide summary data for community conservation efforts as well as a forum for exchanging conservation ideas. The system can further serve as a platform for civic efforts at reducing emissions. For example cities may turn to the system to have their conservation efforts officially measured and broadly recognized.

Parties interested in the analyzed energy consumption data may include any one of the following consumers a power utility a power analyst a power broker government agency regulatory agency and appliance manufacturers. In an embodiment a World Wide Web interface is provided to permit the interested parties access to the energy consumption information.

Advantages of the system may include for example identification of energy consumption on a per appliance basis and or per consumer site member and or per site room thereby providing capabilities to track energy consumption at a highly granular level. Further advantages include summarizing energy consumption data per appliance to quantify energy efficiency levels beyond the commonly known EnergyStar label or other similar efficiency rating systems.

Referring now to there is shown a pictorial diagram of an exemplary residence in which a system of the invention may be used. Although the system described here applies to metering the energy consumption within a residential setting including without limitation a single family residence or a multiple family residence such as an apartment building it is apparent to those skilled in the art and guided by the teachings provided herein that the system may be used in other suitable settings including commercial industrial and utility applications.

The system includes a general purpose computer system such as system controller installed with a general purpose operating system e.g. Intel based operating system Unix based operating system etc. including application software to provide necessary functionality of operations described herein. System controller includes an interface not shown for communicating with a plurality of outlet monitoring devices OMDs through of the system via wireless links wired links or combinations thereof. The OMDs are communicably coupled to various electrical outlets found within the residence . The outlets found within a residence are generally installed in a per room and or per floor basis. For example as shown here for simplicity the OMDs are shown for a specific group of rooms.

In at least one embodiment system controller is configured to receive data pertaining to at least one characteristic of the electrical energy consumed by appliances distributed throughout the residential setting as monitored by the plurality of OMDs through of the system.

The plurality of OMDs transmit at least one characteristic of the electrical consumption such as current voltage or power waveform data to an interface of the system controller . The interface is capable of receiving time stamped secure packet messages from each OMD . The interface queues the data packet transmissions from the respective OMDs in the order they were received.

In one embodiment the OMDs communicate with system controller via wireless links using a low power wireless communications protocol such as the ZigBee protocol or the like. ZigBee is built on an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE global standard 802.15.4 similar to the standards that govern Bluetooth and Wi Fi.

In one embodiment current and voltage waveform data are transmitted from the OMDs with a 16 bit resolution and sampled at a rate of 1 kHz at each outlet. In such an embodiment the data rate from a given OMD for a single outlet configuration can therefore be computed as 32 kbits sec 1 kHz 16 bits per data sample 2 waveforms . For a two outlet configuration the required data transmission speed from an OMD is 64 kbit s which is well within Zigbee s 250 kbit s capacity in the 2.4 GHz band.

The outlet monitoring devices OMDs are configured to transmit metering data to the system controller either periodically or on demand. Each outlet monitoring device OMD is configured to meter a voltage circuit via an electrical outlet.

System controller includes software configured to save organize and analyze the metering data transmitted from one or more OMDs in one embodiment. Each OMD is assigned a unique address to allow system controller to determine which OMD is interacting with system controller . Additionally using the address system controller can transmit communication signals to selected OMDs as needed. For example a single OMD may be selected by system controller to turn on or off any appliances connected to either or both sockets of the OMD . An OMD may also be selected by the system controller to request a transmission from the selected OMD .

Organization of the metering data comprises the system controller individually metering and logging consumption of energy for example by each load of multiple loads or by each user of multiple users. Other methods of summarizing energy consumption data are within contemplation of the invention as will be apparent to the reader. For example users may choose to summarize by location e.g. living room or by one or more device characteristics e.g. rechargeable devices . System controller is configured to access the metering data and log the metering data to generate a summary of the metering data for energy consumption by each load and or each user. Using the summary of the metering data a cost for energy consumption for each user and or each load can be calculated and the usage and or consumption of energy by multiple users and or multiple loads can be better managed.

The system controller obtains metering data by processing the waveform data from OMD using proprietary signal processing algorithms. In one embodiment the processed data will be analyzed by a proprietary appliance detection system ADS to analyze the OMD signal to identify the appliance connected to the OMD . In the event that the ADS cannot make a positive identification of an appliance the customer will be prompted to identify the appliance so that the ADS can learn to associate the OMD signal with the newly identified appliance. In one embodiment customers are provided with incentives to ensure that manual identification is completed. After a characteristic learning period the ADS will be able to auto identify an appliance that is plugged into an OMD.

Turning now to there is shown an outlet monitoring device OMD which is suitable for electrical coupling to an existing electrical circuit such as by inserting OMD into a wall socket power outlet according to an embodiment of the invention. While in operation once OMD is inserted into wall socket load may be electrically coupled to OMD . Load may have any configuration which consumes supplied electrical energy. Examples of load include but are not limited to televisions computers clothes washing machines clothes dryers ovens dishwashers refrigerators freezers microwave ovens trash compactors automobiles lamps and removable countertop appliances such as waffle makers toasters blenders mixers food processors coffee makers and the like.

In one embodiment OMD accepts a standard plug for load . In the presently described embodiment OMD is configured as a dual socket OMD where each socket of the outlet monitoring device OMD is associated with a corresponding socket of wall outlet . It is noted that a key feature of the invention is that the use of OMD permits the continued use of all outlets of a multi port wall outlet by substantially conforming to the footprint of the wall socket to which it is attached which in this embodiment shows the use of both outlets of dual port wall outlet .

Waveform Sampler Circuit is configured to sample the current and voltage waveforms across the load and apply necessary filtering to maintain high signal to noise ratios. In one embodiment the waveform sampler may be implemented as a highly integrated circuit such as the ADE 7753 by Analog Devices Norwood Mass. . In the described embodiment waveform sampler circuit is comprised of a switch connected to a wall socket for switching the OMD on when an appliance is plugged into the wall socket . In this embodiment a current sensor sits on the high side of the line and a voltage sensor sits in parallel to the load . The current sensor could be any known or envisioned current sensor including for example a resistive shunt current transformer Hall Effect sensor or Rogowski coil. The outputs of the current and voltage sensors are isolated by pre amplifiers not shown . The rectification unit not shown could be any efficient rectification scheme that may for example be built on a buck converter and powers the active electronics from the AC line. A stage coupled to the rectification unit sets reference voltages like ground for voltage measurements with respect to the load. A signal processing module filters out noise to enhance the signal to noise ratio using any known or envisioned method including for example passive and active analog filtering digital signal processing or any combination thereof. The waveform sampler circuit includes a timing circuit not shown that sets the waveform sampling frequency. Sampling rates employed in the waveform sampler circuit are dictated by the frequency characteristics of the load and may be at least two orders of magnitude higher than the wireless communication transmission rate. If ZigBee is the preferred wireless communication protocol given the ZigBee transmission rate of 250 kBytes sec the sampling rate employed in the waveform sampler circuit may be greater than 100 kHz to mitigate errors arising in the de muxing process described below. The MCU controls the relay and can connect and disconnect the load to the power source at the wall socket .

The Communication and Control block CCB processes waveform data received from the waveform sampler circuit and transmits the processed data to the system controller .

In one embodiment the CCB is comprised of MCU Wireless Communications module and Memory . MCU and memory module sample waveforms output from the waveform sampler circuit at a sufficiently high rate so that calculations including appliance detection and power measurement can be performed at the system controller . The input to the wireless communication module may be in different embodiments voltage waveforms current waveforms power waveforms or a multiplexed signal containing any combination thereof. A power waveform may be either measured in an analog circuit or computed from current and voltage waveforms by the MCU .

Wireless communication module can be any arbitrary wireless communicating component able to establish communications with a wireless communicating component coupled to an interface expander port of the system controller . In addition to employing modulation demodulation the wireless communication module may in certain embodiments employ encoding decoding and or encryption decryption and or compression methods.

In one embodiment current and voltage waveforms from each OMD are transmitted to the system controller by the wireless communication module where power calculations are performed by the system controller . In another embodiment an analog circuit constructs the power waveform from the current and voltage waveforms. In this case the wireless communication module transmits the current voltage and power waveforms to the system controller.

In various embodiments the wireless communications can include standard or nonstandard communications. Some examples of standard wireless communications include link protocols including but not limited to Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 wireless LANs 802.15 WPANs 802.16 WiMAX 802.20 mobile wireless cellular protocols including but not limited to CDMA and GSM ZigBee and ultra wideband UWB technologies. Such protocols support radio frequency communications and some support infrared communications. It is possible that other forms of wireless communications can be used such as ultrasonic or optical. It is understood that the standards which can be used include past and present standards. It is also contemplated that future versions of these standards and new future standards may be employed or encryption used without departing from the scope of the present subject matter.

The ZigBee protocol is an exemplary protocol because it provides efficient wireless networking between multiple OMDs and the system controller but uses very little power 

The microcontroller coordinates the operations of the waveform sampler circuit control and communication block and switching module See and OMD dual socket configurations . Microcontroller is configured to receive the current and voltage waveforms and or a muxed signal as an analog input. The primary output is a digitized version of the muxed signal to be transmitted either to memory or communication module . Other outputs generated by microcontroller include simple operational instructions to the relay or signal processor described below in connection with OMD control tasks.

In addition to receiving and generating signals as described above the microcontroller is configured to a perform analog to digital conversion on the muxed signal b apply any kind of filter which may include collaboration with a DSP digital signal processing chip to improve output digital signal quality c interface with memory to read write waveforms d interface with communications module to manage data communications e interface with LED drivers f perform simple calculations related to appliance detection and g manage overall OMD control tasks. OMD control tasks may include for example a turning the electricity to the load on off as requested by the system controller b managing user options related to the LED display waveform sampling and or mux circuitry and c calibrating the internal circuitry e.g. synchronizing internal clocks .

In some embodiments the OMD includes memory for storing data including but not limited to data output from the waveform sampler circuit . In an embodiment memory is a flash memory that enables the system controller to turn individualized OMDs on or off without risking a loss of data. In some embodiments the memory is a non volatile memory such as EEPROM of at least 32 kB in size having data access times less than or equal to 1 ms. Memory stores digitized waveform data output from the MCU . Memory stores the digitized waveform data in those cases where system controller is turned off or when the sampling frequency exceeds the communication frequency. Once the communications module of the OMD senses that system controller is turned on the OMD transmits the stored data to system controller . Once memory reaches capacity older stored data is overwritten with newer data in first in first out FIFO fashion.

In one embodiment an LED or LCD display is coupled to micro controller or to a power metering IC not shown to provide immediate feedback to a user on the amount of power being used by an appliance. In one embodiment a visual LCD display shows the user a number of tracked parameters including average energy use instantaneous power use power factor voltage and current RMS levels. Further the parameters are displayed in various units of interest including without limitation dollars spent kWh kW volts and amps. It is further contemplated to use the numerical LED to indicate that an appliance is plugged in. In an embodiment a number of LEDs are used to indicate the various device states of the OMD . For example a green LED indicating that the OMD is on a red LED indicating that the OMD is off and a blinking green LED indicating that the OMD is transmitting data.

Referring now to and there is shown a detailed circuit diagram of an OMD OMD for a dual port socket embodiment. In such an embodiment the upper and lower waveform sampler circuits are coupled to switching module which is configured to send the outputs of both sampler circuits to a single control and communication block . In effect the switching module enables waveform data of adequate time resolution to be captured from both sockets in real time.

Switching module of the OMD circuit enables a single OMD to be used to sample current and voltage waveforms from both outlets of a dual wall power outlet . Switching module utilizes a multiplexing technique sometimes referred to as muxing to enable alternate sampling from both outlets so that two sets of current and voltage waveforms of sufficient time resolution to be captured simultaneously.

In the embodiment illustrated in each outlet of a dual wall power outlet is connected to its own voltage current sensor followed by its own signal processor so that waveforms from each outlet are sampled separately. The sampled data streams from the upper and lower waveform sampler circuits respectively are fed into a mux to generate a single combined data stream that is sent to the control and communication block .

In the embodiment of each outlet of a dual wall power outlet is connected to its own voltage current sensor . A mux generates a single combined data stream from the raw streams of sensor data from the two outlets. The single combined stream is then sampled through a single signal processor and distributed to the control and communication block .

Different techniques are contemplated for multiplexing the two data streams via mux . In one embodiment time division multiplexing is used in which two signals are interleaved by alternately sampling from each signal stream according to a timing signal from an internal clock circuitry on the device. The internal clock may contain a long shelf life battery to avoid frequent synchronization with an external clock source. In another embodiment the two signals are added from the respective signal streams after delaying one signal by half a period using an electronic phase shifter.

In one embodiment a power strip incorporates the fundamental OMD power metering wireless capabilities with waveform multiplexing discussed above in the context of a dual wall outlet. In another embodiment it is contemplated to incorporate the fundamental OMD power metering wireless capabilities to handle appliances with large currents draws such as washer dryers .

The gateway computer will be the primary interface to System with the distributed client computers . Gateway computer is configured to ensure that the other elements that make up system remain isolated from the Internet for security purposes. Gateway Computer receives information from the distributed nodes for example usage patterns or energy use on various appliances and confirms that the received information is not corrupted or poses a security threat. Gateway Computer forwards the received data to computer a computer that can read from and write to database .

Processor receives requests for human or machine readable reports from the client node or a social networking site . Examples of human readable reports include a request to see how much electricity a group of users has used during a particular time period. This request could originate either from Node e.g. client software gives user update on how much energy a group has used or a social network node e.g. PHP code running on a platform of a social networking site such as Facebook on a page associated with a particular group requests a graph illustrating how the group has reduced its energy use. Examples of machine readable reports include a request to receive the power consumption characteristics for a particular device. Upon receiving a report request processors examines the report request and first confirms it is not a security threat privacy violation or other malicious request. It then passes on the request to a computer that can read from database which will execute the query and return the information to processor . Upon receiving the returned information processor formulates the data into the appropriate human or machine readable format and communicates it back to the requesting client via the Internet .

The OMDs associated with each residence e.g. residence and shown by way of example include hardware circuitry and software components required for communicating via ZigBee or another wireless protocol with system node . In one embodiment communications are received by a ZigBee module included as a component of each OMD which will then transmit information via a USB or serial port to a PC or otherwise cache the information in the case where the PC is in an OFF state. A daemon not shown on the PC will receive the information and communicate it to an application running on the client.

The software OMD soft includes several interoperating pieces. An OMD soft communication daemon will run on a user s computer and be responsible for communicating with the OMD via a wireless protocol e.g. ZigBee . Whenever the computer is turned on an OMD soft daemon will connect to the device and download all cached data. While the computer is running it will collect information in real time. It will communicate this information to the thick client.

A thick client will receive information from the daemon and connect to one or more system servers via the Internet to send and receive information. The thick client is configured to display information in real time allow users to join or create groups and support all the functionality mentioned below. The system servers receive information from all clients and store it in a relational database. The servers also receive intermediate queries from clients about total energy use per individual broken down by appliance type about groups of users etc.

Thin clients may be hosted on third parties like Ning or Facebook. They may be written in PHP or a similar language. They may also contain a mashup with other databases such as Google Maps. Thin clients will primarily be used to display information on appliances or user performance.

Individual users may configure thin clients using a GUI provided by a third party or on the thick client. For example a user who is leading a group may design the home page for that group on Ning but use the thick client to invite other OMD users to join.

In one embodiment an API and set of libraries would be provided that enable third party software to interface with the invention described herein. Elements of this interface would include notification when certain events take place outlets turned on off or changing power and also give third parties the ability to turn OMDs on or off.

In different embodiments the API may be embodied as software running on the same PC that hosts a thick client or by publishing the interface used to control devices via the Zigbee network.

For example a third party might take advantage of this API to design a coffee maker that turns on when the bedroom lights are turned on a weekend morning or software that tracks when a babysitter turns off the lights in a child s bedroom.

The following tables will be present on both the client machine system controller and the central server machines database except as noted. They may be implemented as tables in a database data stored on disk data structures stored in RAM or in similarly suitable storage structures.

In the Overview tab shown in a first table depicts how the user can use the GUI to program appliance on off states that OMDs around the site can execute. Furthermore the potential savings from the programmed on off states are forecasted based on the data history collected by the OMDs so that a user can optimize on off preferences to his her liking. In this embodiment appliances are clustered by consumer site room to facilitate scheduling but other methods of organization are possible for the user to choose.

A second summary panel indicates the overall electricity savings that a consumer site has achieved over a certain period of time with motivational tidbits about the impact level that such conservation efforts have on the environment. In addition a small time series chart depicts the overall trend in electricity usage at that consumer site to remind users that their savings are based on actual collected data.

Finally a third panel shows community level updates that are relevant to the consumer site so that OMD users can remain up to date on community conservation efforts and performance.

Another GUI contemplated for use with the invention not shown would allow the user to request granular information concerning various aspects of energy consumption such as for example appliance usage trends direct comparisons of electricity usage at different time scales cross referenced data and answers to What if scenarios. This information would be accessed through another tab on the GUI e.g. My Home tab.

It is noted that personalized data is never required to be passed to a centralized database to perform the process flow . The process flow does however require a device power signatures and b appliance descriptions definitions from the centralized database. Both of these parameters are obtained as averages of centralized data which were collected over time from users who volunteered personal usage data or corporate appliance manufacturers distributors sources.

In the claims hereof any element expressed as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a a combination of circuit elements that performs that function or b software in any form including therefore firmware microcode or the like combined with appropriate circuitry for executing that software to perform the function. The disclosure as defined by such claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in the manner which the claims call for. It is thus regarded that any means that can provide those functionalities are equivalent to those shown herein.

