---

title: Crystal structure of human mitoNEET protein
abstract: The present technology relates to the fields of crystallography, biochemistry, and drug design. In particular, methods and compositions for screening, identifying and designing compounds that interact with human mitoNEET.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08350007&OS=08350007&RS=08350007
owner: Yissum, Research Development Company of Hebrew University of Jerusalem
number: 08350007
owner_city: Jerusalem
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20080815
---
This application is the U.S. National Phase under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2008 073366 filed Aug. 15 2008 under the Patent Cooperation Treaty PCT which was published by the International Bureau on Feb. 26 2009 in English which designates the United States and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 965 260 entitled NEW APPROACH FOR DESIGNING DIABETES DRUGS and filed on Aug. 17 2007 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for any purpose.

This invention was made with government support under NIH Grant Contract Numbers GM41637 GM54038 DK54441 GM18024 and GM18849 awarded by the National Institutes of Health of the United States of America. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is being filed along with a Sequence Listing in electronic format. The Sequence Listing is provided as a file entitled UCSD018.001.TXT created Aug. 14 2008 which is 1.22 KB in size. The information in the electronic format of the Sequence Listing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present technology relates to the fields of crystallography biochemistry and drug design. In particular the present technology relates to methods and compositions for screening identifying and designing compounds that interact with human mitoNEET.

Diabetes is the fifth most common cause of death and was responsible for over 5 of worldwide deaths in 2000 Roglic G. Unwin N. Bennett P. H. Mathers C. Tuomilehto J. Nag S. Connelly V. King H 2005 28 2130 2135 . Type II Diabetes is characterized by insulin resistance of the peripheral tissues including the skeletal muscle liver and adipose. The resulting hyperglycemia is often accompanied by defective lipid metabolism that can lead to cardiovascular complications such as atherosclerosis and hypertension. Accordingly it often leads to serious complications such as renal disease blindness heart disease and stroke and the treatment of diabetes annually incurs nearly 100 billion dollars of medical costs in the United States alone Saltiel A. R. 2001 104 517 529 .

The most broadly successful class of drugs used to treat type II diabetes is the thiazolidinediones TZDs some examples of which are pioglitazone and rosiglitazone trade names Actos and Avandia respectively . The antidiabetic activity of TZDs was first elucidated in the 1970s where they were first identified as high affinity ligands for the nuclear transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR Colca J. R. Kletzien R. F. 2006 15 205 210 Lehmann J. M. Moore L. B. Smitholiver T. A. Wilkison W. O. Willson T. M. Kliewer S. A. 1995 270 12953 12956 .

However the link between TZDs PPAR and antidiabetic benefits came into question and ultimately led to the identification of a previously unknown outer mitochondrial membrane protein that directly binds to TZDs Colca J. R. Kletzien R. F. 2006 15 205 210 Also known as CISD1 CDGSH Iron Sulfur Domain 1 ZCD1 C10orf70 MGC14684 MDS029 Colca J. R. McDonald W. G. Waldon D. J. Leone J. W. Lull J. M. Bannow C. A. Lund E. T. Mathews W. R. 2004 286 E252 E260 . The outer mitochondrial membrane protein was named mitoNEET based on its subcellular localization mito and the presence of the amino acid sequence Asn Glu Glu Thr NEET .

MitoNEET is an integral protein of the outer mitochondrial membrane OMM as shown by immuno electron microscopy and fractionation of highly purified rat liver mitochondria. An amino terminal signal sequence within the first 32 residues containing a predicted transmembrane domain targets mitoNEET to the outer membrane. The orientation of mitoNEET towards the cytoplasm was established by proteolytic digestion of the protein on intact rat liver mitochondria.

Mitochondrial dysfunction has been further associated with insulin resistance and the development of type II diabetes Stark R. Roden M. 2007 37 236 248 . Some studies indicate that disease pathogenesis involves diminished mitochondrial oxidative capacity in insulin sensitive tissues and agents such as TZDs are known to enhance oxidative capacity and normalize lipid metabolism Bandyopadhyay G K Yu J G Ofrecio J Olefsky J M 2006 55 2277 2285 Bogacka I Xie H Bray G A Smith S R 2005 54 1392 1399 . Moreover deficiency of mitoNEET in mice results in a compromise in the respiratory capacity of heart mitochondria Wiley S E Murphy A N Ross S A van der Geer P Dixon J E 2007 104 5318 5323 . Accordingly mitoNEET is a candidate target for drugs to treat several disorders including type II diabetes.

Some embodiments relate to a crystal containing a human mitoNEET protein in which the crystal effectively diffracts X rays for the determination of the atomic coordinates of the mitoNEET protein to a resolution of greater than about 1.5 . In some such embodiments the human mitoNEET protein includes SEQ ID NO 1 or an amino acid sequence having at least 85 amino acid identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO 1.

In more embodiments a crystal can have an orthorhombic space group P212121 and unit cell dimensions of about a 46.8 b 49.6 and c 59.0 . In even more embodiments a crystal can have a three dimensional structure characterized by the atomic coordinates of Table 2. In certain embodiments a crystal can contain a human mitoNEET protein having tertiary structure containing a NEET fold. In exemplary embodiments a crystal can contain a truncated human mitoNEET protein.

Some methods relate to methods for designing a compound that binds human mitoNEET protein with steps that can include accessing at least a portion of the data of Table 2 and modeling the binding of the compound to human mitoNEET utilizing the data. In more methods the modeling further includes predicting the likelihood of the compound increasing 2Fe 2S cluster stability in a human mitoNEET protein. More embodiments include methods further including testing the stability of the 2Fe 2S cluster in the presence of the compound.

In some methods the compound is designed de novo. In other embodiments the compound is designed from a known chemical entity or a fragment thereof. In some such methods the known chemical entity or a fragment thereof includes a thiazolidinedione. In further embodiments the thiazolidinedione is selected from the group consisting of pioglitazone troglitazone rivoglitazone and rosiglitazone.

Some embodiments relate to methods for identifying a compound for use in the treatment of a mitoNEET associated disorder that include the steps of accessing at least a portion of the data of Table 2 and modeling the binding of the compound to human mitoNEET utilizing the data in which the mitoNEET associated disorder is selected from the group consisting of type II diabetes insulin resistance multiple sclerosis Alzheimer s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Some embodiments relate to compounds identified by accessing at least a portion of the data of Table 2 and modeling the binding of the compound to human mitoNEET utilizing the data.

More embodiments relate to computer readable media containing the atomic coordinates of Table 2. Even more embodiments relate to methods for using computer readable media containing the atomic coordinates of Table 2 with steps that include loading the co ordinates of Table 2 into memory processing the co ordinates to create a three dimensional representation and displaying the three dimensional representation on a display.

Some embodiments relate to methods for screening for an agent that modulates 2Fe 2S cluster stability in mitoNEET with steps that include selecting or designing a candidate agent by performing structure based drug design with a computer system encoded with computer readable data containing atomic coordinate data or binding site data or both in which the selecting step is performed in conjunction with computer modeling contacting the candidate agent with mitoNEET and detecting the ability of the candidate agent to modulate 2Fe 2S cluster stability.

Certain embodiments relate to methods for identifying a compound which stabilizes the 2Fe 2S cluster with one or more steps that include comparing the stability of said 2Fe 2S cluster in the presence and absence of said compound. In some such methods the stability is measured in vitro and in particular using spectroscopic methods.

The present technology relates to methods and compositions for screening identifying and designing compounds that interact with mitoNEET. Such methods include identifying compounds that can be useful to treat metabolic dysfunctional disorders such as type II diabetes. More methods can include screening identifying and designing compounds that stabilize the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET.

Iron sulfur Fe S proteins are key players in vital processes involving energy homeostasis and metabolism from the simplest to most complex organisms. Described herein is a 1.5 X ray crystal structure of mitoNEET an outer mitochondrial membrane Fe S protein.

The mitoNEET protein is composed of two protomers intertwined to form a dimeric structure that contains a NEET fold. The protomers form a two domain structure with a beta cap domain and a cluster binding domain. The cluster binding domain is composed of 3 cysteine residues and 1 histidine residue and coordinates two acid labile 2Fe 2S clusters . This domain is unique among 2Fe 2S cluster binding proteins which have previously been observed primarily with 4 Cys or 2 Cys 2 His ligation environments referred to as ferredoxins and Rieske type proteins respectively.

The biophysical properties of mitoNEET suggest that it may play a role in metal cluster transfer or electron transfer reactions Paddock M. L. Wiley S. E. Axelrod H. L. Cohen A. E. Roy M. Abresch E. C. Capraro D. Murphy A. N. Nechushtai R. Dixon J. E. Jennings P. A. 2007 104 14342 14347 . In both cases the protonation state of the ligating histidine residue is significant because the cationic form of the residue at low pH likely facilitates release of the metal cluster and different protonation states may tune the redox potential Beharry Z. M. Eby D. M. Couter E. D. Viswanathan R. Neidle E. L. Phillips R. S. Kurtz D. M. 2003 42 13625 13636 .

Initial spectroscopic work has been performed on mitoNEET using techniques such as visible absorption NMR EPR and mass spectrometry Paddock M. L. Wiley S. E. Axelrod H. L. Cohen A. E. Roy M. Abresch E. C. Capraro D. Murphy A. N. Nechushtai R. Dixon J. E. Jennings P. A. 2007 104 14342 14347 Wiley S. E. Paddock M. L. Abresch E. C. Gross L. van der Geer P. Nechushtai R. Murphy A. N. Jennings P. A. Dixon J. E. 2007 282 23745 23749 . The absorption spectrum of mitoNEET has a peak near 460 nm attributed to the 2Fe 2S cluster that is reversibly reduced by dithionite and oxygen. The cluster is labile at pH 8.0 as shown by the loss of the spectral signature and of the 2Fe and 2S as shown by mass spectroscopy Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 .

The mitoNEET protein interacts with pioglitazone a member of the TZD family of compounds. TZDs have been used to treat disorders including type II diabetes. As described further herein binding of pioglitazone stabilizes mitoNEET against 2Fe 2S cluster release. Without wishing to be bound to any one theory such stabilization may be a mechanism by which compounds such as TZDs can have a therapeutic effect. However stabilization of the 2Fe 2S cluster in mitoNEET may be one of several effects that compounds such as TZDs can have on mitoNEET.

The following description includes methods and compositions for screening identifying and designing compounds that interact with mitoNEET.

Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to crystals of mitoNEET. The crystals can contain a structure that can be characterized as a NEET fold. An example of preparing crystals can be found in Example 1.

In some embodiments a crystal can contain the human mitoNEET protein in which the crystal can be used to diffract X rays to determine the atomic coordinates of the mitoNEET protein to a resolution less than about 5 less than about 2 less than about 1.5 less than about 1 Angstrom. In such embodiments the human mitoNEET protein can comprise a polypeptide with at least 50 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 and at least 99 identity to SEQ ID No. 1. In more embodiments a mitoNEET crystal can comprise a polypeptide with 100 identity to SEQ ID No. 1. In more embodiments the polypeptide can contain insertions deletions and or mutations.

Some embodiments relate to methods utilizing data obtained from mitoNEET crystals. Specific details of crystallographic analysis can be found in Example 1. A summary of crystal parameters for an exemplary mitoNEET polypeptide can be found in Example 1 Table 1 crystal coordinates are provided in Table 2. Table 2 contains header information describing the structure determination in rows beginning with REMARK CISPEP and SCALE. Subsequent to these headers Column 1 indicates the presence of an atom Column 2 shows the serial number or atom number Column 3 the atom name Column 4 the residue name and polypeptide chain A or polypeptide chain B Column 5 the residue number Column 6 the X coordinate Column 7 the Y coordinate Column 8 the Z coordinate Column 9 the atomic occupancy Column 10 the temperature factor and Column 11 the chain ID. Figures were generated using the X ray crystallographic data including A C A F and A B.

The crystal coordinates shown in Table 2 provide a measure of atomic location in . The coordinates are a relative set of positions that define a shape in three dimensions. An entirely different set of coordinates having a different origin and or axes may define a similar or identical shape. However varying the relative atomic positions of the atoms of the structure so that the root mean square deviation of the conserved residue backbone atoms namely the nitrogen carbon carbon backbone atoms of the protein amino acid residues is less than 1.5 when superimposed on the coordinates provided in Table 2 for the conserved residue backbone atoms may generally result in structures which are substantially the same as the structure defined by Table 2 in terms of both its structural characteristics and its usefulness for structure based drug design. Thus in some embodiments the coordinates of Table 2 can be transposed to a different origin and or axes the relative atomic positions of the atoms of the structure are varied so that the root mean square deviation of conserved residue backbone atoms is less than 1.5 when superimposed on the coordinates provided in Table 2 for the conserved residue backbone atoms and or the number and or positions of water molecules is varied. References herein to the coordinates of Table 2 thus includes the coordinates in which one or more individual values of the Table 2 are varied in this way.

Modifications in the mitoNEET crystal structure due to for example mutations additions conservative and non conservative substitutions and or deletions of amino acid residues may account for variations in the mitoNEET atomic coordinates.

Some embodiments described herein relate to methods for screening identifying and or designing compounds that interact with mitoNEET. Such methods can include the step of accessing any portion of the data contained in Table 2 and modeling one or more compounds using that data. The modeling can include for example predicting the interactions between a compound and the mitoNEET protein. More exemplary embodiments can include predicting the interactions between a compound and a modified mitoNEET protein. The modified mitoNEET protein can be modified with one or more insertions deletions and or mutations. Even more exemplary embodiments can include predicting the interactions between the mitoNEET protein and a TZD such as pioglitazone rosiglitazone troglitazone ciglitazone or rivoglitazone. Even more exemplary embodiments can include predicting the likelihood of a compound increasing the stability of the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET.

Some embodiments include designing compounds using techniques of structure based drug design. Structure based drug design involves the rational design of ligand molecules to interact with the three dimensional 3 D structure of target receptors the ultimate goal being to identify or design molecules with 3 D complementarity to the target protein namely mitoNEET Kirkpatrick et al. 1999 Comb. Chem. High Throughput Screen. 2 211 21 . The accuracy required of a protein structure depends on the question addressed by the design process with some processes predicated on the assumption that a lead molecule will need to complement a known binding site for a ligand precisely or match the presumed transition state structure of a reaction closely Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . Such cases call for an accurate model at the highest resolution possible. Alternatively the design process may exploit the structure to indicate the general availability of space to fill hydrogen bonds to make or electrostatic interactions to optimize in which case knowledge of the general topography of the binding site is often useful Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Factors that affect the accuracy of structure based drug design include aspects of the determination of the 3 D structure of proteins such as refinement resolution the number of restraints introduced in the structure analysis statistical indicators of agreement between the model and the experimental data and the conformity of the model to stereochemistry found in proteins in general Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Most statistical parameters can be optimized at least within the constraints of the data. However if the data is of poor quality or the conformations are incorrect particularly for the sidechains and loops then it is difficult to optimize all of the parameters at the same time Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . Computer programs are available to introduce a check on such parameters including PROCHECK which analyzes the distribution of a range of conformational parameters and compares them with expected distributions Laskowski et al. 1993 . J Appl. Crystallogr. 26 283 .

Sequence dependent indications of the probability that the structure is correct can be derived through a comparison of the local environment in the proposed structure to the propensity of an amino acid Luthy et al. 1991 Proteins Struct. Funct. Genet. 10 229 Novotny et al. 1988 Proteins Struct. Funct. Genet. 4 19 the knowledge based potential Hendlich et al. 1990 J Mol. Biol. 216 167 or the probability of amino acid substitution Overington et al. 1990 Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. B 241 132 Topham et al. 1991 Biochem. Soc. Syrup. 57 1 in the proposed structure.

Protein structures cannot generally be predicted by simulation of the folding pathway due to the fact that the forces between the atoms of the protein and particularly with the surrounding solvent and counter ions are not well described Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . However some proteins belong to families with a common fold including more than 1500 groups of homologous proteins that can be recognized by sequence searches alone and over 500 that have common topologies or folds Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Profiles or templates are useful in the search for the common fold and alignment of sequences for proteins with sequence identities of 

The template search can also be approached by determining the propensity of an amino acid to occur in each class of local structural environment defined by solvent accessibility and secondary structure or by calculation of amino acid substitution tables as a function of local environment Bowie et al. 1991 Science 253 164 Johnson et al. 1993 J. Mol. Biol. 231 735 Luthy et al. 1991 Proteins Struct. Funct. Genet. 10 229 Overington et al. 1990 Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. B 241 132 .

The 3 D structure of a protein can also be predicted by using information derived from the identification of a new sequence with a known fold Summers et al. 1987 J. Mol. Biol. 196 175 Sutcliffe et al. 1987 Protein Eng. 1 385 . Some methods depend on the assembly of rigid fragments to select sets of fragments that define the framework the structurally variable mainly loop regions and the sidechains Blundell et al. 1988 Eur. J. Biochem. 172 513 Blundell et al. 1987 Nature 326 347 Claessens et al. 1989 Protein Eng. 2 335 Jones et al. EMBO J. 5 819 Topham et al. 1993 J. Mol. Biol. 229 194 . Such modeling procedures are very successful when the percentage sequence identity to the unknown is high greater than 40 and when the known structures cluster around that to be predicted Srinivasan Blundell 1993 Protein Eng. 6 501 .

Where a common fold is not known combinatorial approaches that depend upon the identification of secondary structure elements using conformational propensities and residue patterns can be valuable Presnell et al. 1992 Biochemistry 31 983 . The elements of secondary structure are then assembled by docking and or by using rules concerning supersecondary structures Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Once the 3 D structure of a target protein has been defined computational procedures may be used to suggest ligands that will bind at the active site. Any compound can be a candidate as a putative ligand to mitoNEET. In some embodiments a compound can be designed de novo. In more embodiments a compound can be designed using the structure of a compound known to interact with the mitoNEET protein.

Interactive graphics approaches explore new ligand designs manually in ways that might involve for example modification of groups on the ligand to optimize complementarity with receptor enzyme subsites optimization of a transition state to reflect data from mechanistic studies replacement of peptide bonds with groups that improve hydrolytic stability while maintaining key hydrogen bond interactions or linking of adjacent side groups to increase the rigidity of the ligand Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . Most of these steps can now be done using systematic computational approaches that fall into three classes 1 automated docking of whole molecules into receptor sites 2 precalculating potentials at grid points and fitting molecules to these potentials and 3 docking fragments and either joining them or growing them into real molecules Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Attempts at automated docking through the evaluation of electrostatic steric or more complex energy states during a systematic search of rotational and translational space for the two molecules has been successful but the simplification of energy functions required to achieve reasonable computational times has proved limiting Kuntz et al. 1982 . J Mol. Biol. 161 269 Wodak 1978 J Mol. Biol. 124 323 Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct 23 349 75 . Interactive or manual docking involving the positioning of molecules with constant feedback of the energy has been used as an alternative but the many degrees of freedom and modes of interaction however have imposed their own limitations on the utility of this approach Busetta et al. 1983 J Appl. Crystallogr. 16 432 Pattabiraman et al. 1985 J Comput. Chem. 6 432 Tomioka et al. 1987 J Comput. Aided Mol. Des. 1 197 .

Precalculating terms for each point on a grid can be used to identify hydrogen bonding sites within enzyme active sites and also significantly reduces computational time Goodford 1985 J Med. Chem. 28 849 . A similar approach involves the use of pseudoenergies calculated from pairwise distributions of atoms in protein complexes or crystals of small molecules with probe molecules then fitted to these potentials and ranked according to energy Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . For example software such as DOCK available from University of California San Francisco creates a negative image of the target site by placing a set of overlapping spheres so that they fill the complex invaginations of the proposed binding site and the putative ligands are then placed into the site by matching X ray or computer derived structures on the basis of a comparison of internal distances Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . The candidates are then ranked on the basis of their best orientations.

Other methods include a directed version of DOCK that allows for hydrogen bond information to be used and conformational flexibility to be allowed and a method that uses least squares fitting to maximize overlap of enzymes and putative ligands Leach Kuntz 1992 J. Comput. Chem. 13 730 Bacon Moult 1992 J. Mol. Biol. 225 849 .

Still further methods involve the use of genetic algorithms and graph theory to generate molecular structures within constraints of an enzyme active site or a receptor binding site Payne Glen 1993 J Mol. Graph. 11 76 Lewis 1993 J Mol. Graph. 10 131 . For all of these methods to be useful in drug discovery however they must depend upon the existence of large data bases of small molecule structures such as the Cambridge Structure Data Base and the Fine Chemicals Directory Allen et al. 1979 Acta Oyst. B 35 2331 Rusinko et al. 1989 J Chem. Inf. Comput. Sci. 29 251 .

Methods involving fragment docking and then developing algorithms to grow them into larger structures to fill the space available depend upon the exploration of electrostatic van der Waals or hydrogen bonding interactions involved in molecular recognition Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 . Many of these methods incorporate the GRID algorithm as a starting point and then use GenStar and or GroupBuild to generate chemically reasonable structures to fill the active sites of enzymes Rotstein and Murcko 1993 J Comput. Aided Mol. Des. 7 23 Rotstein and Murcko 1993 J Med. Chem. 36 1700 . Alternatively the program can start with a docked core or the structure of a fragment from an inhibitor complex and for each atom generated several hundred candidate positions representing different bond lengths and torsion angles are scored on the basis of contacts with the enzyme Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 23 349 75 .

Numerous computer programs are available and suitable for rational drug design and the processes of computer modeling model building and computationally identifying selecting and evaluating potential inhibitors in the methods described herein. These include for example SYBYL available from TRIPOS St. Louis Mo. DOCK available from University of California San Francisco GRID available form Oxford University UK MCSS available from Molecular Simulations Inc. Burlington Mass. AUTODOCK available from Oxford Molecular Group FLEX X available from TRIPOS St. Louis Mo. CAVEAT available from University of California Berkeley HOOK available from Molecular Simulations Inc. Burlington Mass. and 3 D database systems such as MACCS 3D available from MDL Information Systems San Leandro Calif. UNITY available from TRIPOS St. Louis Mo. and CATALYST available from Molecular Simulations Inc. Burlington Mass. .

Potential interactive compounds may also be computationally designed de novo using such software packages as LUDI available from Biosym TechMA and LEAPFROG TRIPOS Associates St. Louis Mo. . Compound defamation energy and electrostatic repulsion may be evaluated using programs such as GAUSSIAN 92 AMBER QUANTA CHARMM and INSIGHT II DISCOVER. These computer evaluation and modeling techniques may be performed on any suitable hardware including for example workstations available from Silicon Graphics Sun Microsystems and the like. These techniques methods hardware and software packages are representative and are not intended to be comprehensive listing.

Other modeling techniques known in the art may also be employed in accordance with this invention. See for example N. C. Cohen Molecular Modeling in Drug Design Academic Press 1996 Whittle and Blundell 1994 Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Strltct. 23 349 75 Grootenhuis et al. 1992 Bull. Soc. Chim. Belg. 101 661 Lawrence and Davis 1992 Proteins Struct. Funct. Genet. 12 31 Miranker and Karplus 1991 Proteins Struct. Funct. Genet. 11 29 .

Other methods and programs include CLIX a suite of computer programs that searches the Cambridge Data base for small molecules that have both geometrical and chemical complementarity to a defined binding site on a protein of known three dimensional structure and software identified at internet sites including the CAOS CAMM Center Cheminformatics Suite at www.caos.kun.nl . and the NIH Molecular Modeling Home Page at cmm.cit.nih.gov modeling .

One embodiment of the present invention is a computer readable medium encoded with atomic coordinate data or binding site data or both wherein said atomic coordinate data is defined by Table 2 and wherein said binding site data can be defined by any one of the Figures including A C A F and A B. In particular embodiments computer readable media can contain more than about 1 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 99 of the coordinates of Table 2.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method of using the foregoing computer readable medium wherein a graphical display software program is used to create an electronic file using the atomic coordinate data or the binding site data wherein the electronic file can be visualized on a computer capable of representing the electronic file as a three dimensional image. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that can be accessed by computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by computer. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

Some embodiments described herein relate to computer systems containing any portion of the coordinates of Table 2 and methods of screening identifying and or designing compounds using computer systems. Computer systems include the hardware components and means software components and means and data storage components and means used to analyze atomic coordinate data. The minimum hardware components and means of the computer based systems of the present invention comprises a central processing unit CPU input components and means output components and means and data storage components and means. Desirably a monitor is provided to visualize structure data. The data storage means may be RAM or means for accessing computer readable media of the invention. Examples of such systems are microcomputer workstations available from Silicon Graphics Incorporated and Sun Microsystems running Unix based Windows NT or IBM OS 2 operating systems.

Some embodiments described herein relate to methods and compositions to refine models used to predict interactions between candidate compounds and mitoNEET. In such embodiments crystals of mitoNEET can be exposed to a candidate compound or mixture of compounds. In other embodiments mitoNEET can be co crystallized with a candidate compound. Acquisition and analysis of X ray diffraction data from these crystals may then be performed using standard methods. If a compound interacts with mitoNEET then positive difference electron density will be observed in the Fourier maps calculated using the X ray diffraction intensities and phases obtained from the mitoNEET model presented herein. Models of the chemical entities may then be built into the electron density using standard methods and the resulting structures may be refined against the X ray diffraction data providing experimental data describing the interaction of the compounds of interest. Those skilled in the art may use these models to design compounds based either on purely structural data or on combination of structural data biological chemical activity based structure activity relationship and in silico drug design. The compounds that are thus designed or selected may further be tested in in vitro and in vivo assays to determine if they regulate mitoNEET. Examples of such assays are described herein.

Some embodiments described herein relate to in vitro methods for screening and identifying compounds that interact with mitoNEET. In particular embodiments such compounds can stabilize the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET. The increase in stability of a 2Fe 2S cluster of a mitoNEET protein associated with a stabilizing compound compared to the stability of a 2Fe 2S cluster of a mitoNEET protein not associated with a stabilizing compound can be an increase of more than about 2 fold about 3 fold about 4 fold about 5 fold about 10 fold about 20 fold and about 100 fold.

Any compound can be screened to identify a compound that can stabilize the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET and a variety of methods can be used to identify compounds that interact with mitoNEET. Such methods can include spectroscopic methods for example optical spectroscopy electron paramagnetic spectroscopy NMR spectroscopy IR spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy. Examples of using optical spectroscopy and NMR spectroscopy to identify and characterize a compound that can interact with mitoNEET are described in Example 1. Briefly in one embodiment the presence of a candidate compound can cause an increase in the stability of a mitoNEET species at an absorbance of 460 nm at pH 6.0. An example of using Raman spectroscopy to identify and characterize a compound that interacts with mitoNEET is described in Example 2.

In some embodiments the mitoNEET protein used to identify a compound that can stabilize the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET can be a modified mitoNEET protein. Such modified mitoNEET proteins can contain mutations that increase the sensitivity of a method used to identify a stabilizing compound. For example mitoNEET can be modified to modulate binding of the 2Fe 2S cluster such as a D84N modified mitoNEET where a two fold increase in stoichiometric in iron protein be observed H87Q modified mitoNEET where a lack of stoichiometric iron protein can be observed and H87C modified mitoNEET where different Raman spectra can be observed Wiley et al. The outer mitochondrial membrane protein mitoNEET contains a novel redox active 2Fe 2S cluster J. Biol. Chem. 282 23745 23749 Aug. 17 2007 .

Some embodiments relate to the use of compounds that are identified using the atomic coordinates of any portion of Table 2 namely the 3 D coordinates of mitoNEET for the treatment of mitoNEET associated disorders in mammals. Such disorders can include metabolic dysfunctional diseases or conditions including but not limited to those thought to be PPAR associated diseases or conditions diabetes type II diabetes or syndrome X cardiovascular diseases neurodegenerative diseases cancers and inflammatory diseases.

Syndrome X including metabolic syndrome is loosely defined as a collection of abnormalities including hyperinsulemia obesity elevated levels of triglycerides uric acid 20 fibrinogen small dense LDL particles plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 and decreased levels of HDL. Similar metabolic conditions include dyslipidemia including associated diabetic dyslipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia heart failure hypercholesteremia cardiovascular disease including atherosclerosis arteriosclerosis and hypertriglyceridemia type II diabetes mellitus type I diabetes insulin resistance hyperlipidemia inflammation epithelial hyperproliferative diseases including eczema and psoriasis and conditions associated with the lung and gut and regulation of appetite and food intake in subjects suffering from disorders such as obesity anorexia bulimia and anorexia nervosa. In particular embodiments the compounds identified using methods described herein can be useful in the treatment and prevention of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases and conditions including hypertension atherosclerosis arteriosclerosis hypertriglyceridemia and mixed dyslipidaemia.

In more embodiments compounds that are identified herein can be useful in the treatments of disorders treated with TZDs such as rosiglitazone or pioglitazone. For example pioglitazone has been demonstrated to be a potential treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including multiple sclerosis Feinstein D. L. et al. 2002 Ann Neurol. 51 694 702 Pershadsingh H. A. et al. 2004 J. Neuroinflammation 1 3 Klotz L. Schmidt M. Giese T. Sastre M. Knolle P. Klockgether T. and Heneka M. T. 2005 J. Immunol. 175 4948 4955 Alzheimer disease Heneka M. T. Sastre M. Dumitrescu Ozimek L. Hanke A. Dewachter I. Kuiperi C. O Banion K. Klockgether T. Van Leuven F. and Landreth G. E. 2005 Brain 128 1442 1453 and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Schutz B. Reimann J. Dumitrescu Ozimek L. Kappes Hom K. Landreth G. E. Schurmann B. Zimmer A. and Heneka M. T. 2005 J. Neurosci. 25 7805 7812 Kiaei M. Kipiani K. Chen J. Calingasan N. Y. and Beal M. F. 2005 Exp. Neurol. 191 331 336 . Moreover TZDs have been found to be efficacious inducers of differentiation in cultured pre adipocyte cell lines Hiragun et al. J. Cell Physiol. 134 124 130 1988 Sparks et al. J. Cell. Physiol. 146 101 109 1991 Kletzien et al. Mol. Pharmacol. 41 393 398 1992 . Treatment of pre adipocyte cell lines with pioglitazone results in increased expression of the adipocyte specific genes aP2 and adipsin as well as the glucose transporter proteins GLUT 1 and GLUT 4. These data suggest that the hypoglycemic effects of TZDs seen in vivo may be mediated through adipose tissue. However as estimates of the contribution of adipose tissue to whole body glucose usage range from only 1 3 it remains unclear whether the hypoglycemic effects of TZDs can be accounted for by changes in adipocytes only. Furthermore adipose tissue may not be required for the pharmacology of these compounds Burant et al. J Clin Invest 100 2900 2908 1997 . Additionally thiazolidinediones have been implicated in appetite regulation disorders see PCT patent application WO 94 25026 A1 and in increase of bone marrow fat content Williams et al Diabetes 42 Supplement 1 p. 59A1993 .

The portion of the human mitoNEET cDNA corresponding to amino acids 33 108 was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pet21a vector. Expression in BL21 CodonPlus R1L and purification was carried with the time after induction extended to 18 hr at 22 C. as previously described in Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. We included an additional cation exchange chromatography step using HiTrap GE Healthcare to achieve crystal quality purification. The purified material had a peak centered at 458 nm and an optical ratio A A of 2.3 2.4 under these buffer conditions. Optical spectra were measured on a Cary50 spectrometer Varian Walnut Creek Calif. .

Pioglitazone was solubilized in 0.1 N HCI to a concentration of 3.5 mM. Protein samples containing 15 M 2Fe 2S centers 7.5 M dimeric mitoNEET 15 M monomeric mitoNEET were measured in 200 mM phosphate HCI pH 7.5 with and without stoichiometric 10 pioglitazone 25 DC . The stability of the 2Fe 2S clusters were determined from monitoring their characteristic absorbance at 460 nm at pH 6.0 as a function of time Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 . Measurements performed in the NMR buffer 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 5 mM Tris at pH 7.8 gave the same results. The measured pH was the same at the beginning and end of each experiment. Control experiments using equal volume addition of 0.1 N HCl did not change the solution pH 0.01 units nor alter the physical and spectral properties 2 of the protein.

NMR samples of 0.4 mM mitoNEET protomer concentration were prepared in 98 D0 or 90 HO 10 D20 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 5 mM Tris at pH 7.8. Similar results were obtained in buffers at pH 7.5 and 8.0. Ten l of pioglitazone was added in 1 l incremental amounts to 450 l of mitoNEET sample. This was necessary to avoid locally high acidic spots that would destabilize the 2Fe 2S cluster. Following temperature equilibration NMR spectra were acquired at 36 C. using Bruker DMX 500 MHz and Bruker DRX 600 MHz spectrometers. Homonuclear IH 2D NOESY spectra were acquired with a mixing time of 400 ms. Spectral processing was performed using Felix Software Accelrys San Diego Calif. .

Initial crystallization screening was performed both in house and at Hauptman Woodward Institute Buffalo N.Y. . Screens were attempted around initial conditions that yielded crystals. Final conditions were 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8 100 mM NaCl and 30 32 PEG3000 in the reservoir. Samples were frozen 77 K after 1 minute soak in 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8 40 PEG3000 sent frozen 77 K to SSRL in an SSRL supplied cassette system for data collection and analysis.

Frozen crystals were screened using the Stanford Automated Mounter operated by Blu Ice Cohen A E Ellis P J Miller M D Deacon A M Phizackerley R P 2002 J Appl Crystallogr 35 720 726 McPhillips T M McPhillips S E Chiu H J Cohen A E Deacon A M Ellis P J Garman E Gonzalez A Sauter N K Phizackerley R P et al. 2002 J Synchrotron Radiat 9 401 406 . The data were recorded on a 325 mm Marmosaic CCD detector. Datasets were collected from two crystals. A 1.5 resolution dataset used for structure refinement was collected at SSRL BL11 1 from a 0.9 mm 0.075 mm 0.075 mm crystal. Data was collected from two locations on opposite ends of this crystal using a 0.1 0.075 mm beam size. A 3 wavelength Fe MAD dataset used for initial phasing was collected at SSRL BL9 2 from a 1.0 mm 0.2 mm 0.1 mm crystal. The wavelengths for data collection were selected using a plot of f and f calculated with the program CHOOCH from the X ray fluorescence spectrum of the crystal Evans G Pettifer R F 2001 J Appl Crystallogr 34 82 86 . A total of 360 were collected at each wavelength following the inverse beam method with a wedge size of 30 . All data were processed with XDS Kabsch W 1993 J Appl Crystallogr 26 795 800 .

The structure of mitoNEET was determined by MAD phasing Pahler A Smith J L Hendrickson W A 1990 46 Pt 7 537 540 Terwilliger T C Berendzen J 1999 Acta Crystallogr D 55 849 861 . Data reduction and primary phasing at a resolution of 2 were accomplished using an automated MAD script developed by Ana Gonzalez SSRL that integrates MOSFLM Leslie A G W 2006 Acta Crystallogr D 62 48 57 and scales SCALA Bailey S 1994 Acta Crystallogr D 50 760 763 the data phase the structure SOLVE Terwilliger T C Berendzen J 1999 Acta Crystallogr D 55 849 861 and auto builds a partial model RESOLVE Terwilliger T C 2000 Acta Crystallogr D 56 965 972 . Several rounds of automated model building and refinement were implemented using ARP wARP Perrakis A Morris R Lamzin V S 1999 Nat Struct Biol 6 458 463 which resulted in significantly improved electron density maps and placement of 97 amino acid sidechains into electron density.

The data from several independent sets were processed using an automated script developed by Qingping Xu at the Joint Center for Structural Genomics SSRL that runs XDS Kabsch W 1993 J Appl Crystallogr 26 795 . Model completion and refinement were performed in COOT Emsley P Cowtan K 2004 Acta Crystallogr D 60 2126 2132 and REFMAC5 Winn M D Murshudov G N Papiz M Z 2003 Methods Enzymol 374 300 321 respectively. Analysis of the stereochemical quality of the models were accomplished using an automated validation server developed by Chris Rife at the JCSG SSRL implementing MolProbity Lovell S C Davis I W Arendall W B 3rd de Bakker P I Word J M Prisant M G Richardson J S Richardson D C 2003 Proteins 50 437 450 ADIT Yang H W Guranovic V Dutta S Feng Z K Berman H M Westbrook J D 2004 Acta Crystallogr D 60 1833 1839 and WHATIF 5.0 Vriend G 1990 J Mol Graphics 8 52 56 . Structural Figures were rendered with PyMol Delano W L Lam J W 2005 Abstr Pap Am Chem S 230 U1371 U1372 .

A soluble form of recombinant human mitoNEET corresponding to amino acids 33 108 lacking the amino terminal targeting and transmembrane sequences was produced for structural analysis. The isolated recombinant protein crystallized in the orthorhombic space group P212121 with unit cell parameters a 46.81 b 49.62 c 59.01 . The Matthews coefficient V of the crystal was 1.9 Dalton with an estimated solvent content of 33 .

The crystal structure of mitoNEET was determined by MAD phasing Pahler A Smith J L Hendrickson W A 1990 46 Pt 7 537 540 . For primary phasing X ray diffraction intensities were collected at Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory SSRL BL9 2 to a resolution of 1.8 at three wavelengths corresponding to the inflection absorption peak and high energy remote. X ray diffraction data from a second crystal were collected to an enhanced resolution of 1.5 for refinement of the atomic coordinates Table 1 .

The model was refined to an R factor of 18.2 R 22.2 . The high quality of the electron density is shown in . shows the backbone tracing of each protomer chain namely chain N C darker shaded and N C chain lighter shaded together with the 2F Felectron density map contoured at 1.50 over each chain. The protomers pack in a parallel fashion with each protomer harboring a 2Fe 2S cluster depicted as lighter shaded sulfur and darker shaded iron spheres N and C termini indicated. shows an expanded view of one 2Fe 2S cluster rotated 90 from the backbone tracing view and ligands and the corresponding 2F Felectron density map contoured at 2.00 .

As illustrated in each protomer is composed of a helical turn Met62 Asp64 an alpha helix Ala86 Thr94 an anti parallel 3 structure Lys68 Tyr71 Leu101 Lys104 an additional swapping strand Ile56 Asp61 and eleven interconnecting 3 turns and loops. The protein is folded into two spatially distinct sub regions a beta rich or Beta Cap domain and a helical 2Fe 2S binding or Cluster Binding domain. The refined model reveals a parallel homodimeric structure that includes the cytoplasmic fragment of each protomer from Lys42 to Lys106 on Protomer A and from Ala43 to Glu107 on Protomer B of the dimmer . The homodimer is tightly packed with 2020 of buried surface area at the interface. Model validation using the MOLPROBITY Lovell S C Davis I W Arendall W B 3rd de Bakker P I Word J M Prisant M G Richardson J S Richardson D C 2003 Proteins 50 437 450 structure validation tool indicates that 96.8 of the amino acid residues are in the favored region of space.

Molecular representations of mitoNEET are shown in and highlight the packing of hydrophobic and charged residues. In ribbon diagrams represent mitoNEET in two orientations. The structure shown in is rotated 90 along the vertical axis shown with respect to the structure shown in . One protomer of the dimer is shaded more lightly than the other protomer. Each 2Fe 2S cluster is shown with light shaded sulfur and dark shaded iron spheres.

An asymmetry of charge is located within the interior of the protein forming a macrodipole with the negative end at the top of the beta cap domain and the positive end within the cluster binding domain formed by an unexpected interprotomer hydrogen bond between His58 and Arg73 located near the cluster F A and B . The conserved Arg73 is located directly between the Cys ligands of the innermost Fe of the cluster . This interaction stabilizes the dimer interface. Separating the poles of the dipole are the hydrophobic residues that form a ring around the two protomers within the dimer . The hydrophobic nature of this area may playa role in flexibility and mobility in the vicinity of the 2Fe 2S cluster contributing to its binding and release.

The sequences Lys42 Lys55 and Cys72 Asn97 on each protomer comprise the cluster binding domain . Within the cluster binding domain the polypeptide backbone chain from Cys72 Gly85 folds into a coil that contains the three coordinating Cys ligands Cys72 Cys74 Cys83 and cradles the 2Fe 2S cluster . The fourth ligand for the 2Fe 2S cluster His87 lies at the N terminus of the a helix within cluster binding domain Ala86 Thr94 . mitoNEET shares this unusual 3Cys cluster coordination with the structurally unrelated cluster scaffold protein IscU Li K Tong W H Hughes R M Rouault T A 2006 J Biol Chem 281 12344 12351 Ramelot T A Cort J R Goldsmith Fischman S Komhaber G J Xiao R Shastry R Acton T B Honig B Montelione G T Kennedy M A 2004 J Mol Biol 344 567 583 . The 3Cys 1His coordination seen here is in agreement with the conclusions of previous solution studies of mitoNEET Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J. Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 . Cys83 and His87 are solvent accessible and coordinate to the outermost Fe while Cys72 and Cys74 coordinate the innermost Fe of the 2Fe 2S cluster . The binding coils one from each protomer protrude away from the core of the dimer and the non crystallographic dyad axis . The cluster binding domain and specifically the C terminus of each a helix is predicted to be situated near the OMM in vivo.

Pioglitazone a member of the TZD class of insulin sensitizer drugs binds to mitoNEET in vitro as demonstrated by photoaffinity labeling Colca J R 2006 Biochem Pharmacol 72 125 131 Colca J R Kletzien R F 2006 Expert Opin Investig Drugs 15 205 210 18 Hofmann C A Colca J R 1992 Diabetes Care 15 1075 1078 Colca J R McDonald W G Waldon D J Leone J W Lull J M Bannow C A Lund E T Mathews W R 2004 Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 286 E252 260 . To observe the effects of pioglitazone binding on the protein stability of mitoNEET the characteristic absorbance of the 2Fe 2S cluster at 460 nm was measured as a function of time at pH 6.0 under conditions known to lead to cluster release Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 . illustrate that the binding of pioglitazone to mitoNEET stabilizes the Fe S cluster. As shows the stability of the 2Fe 2S cluster of mitoNEET was increased in the presence of pioglitazone. Here the change in the signature absorbance spectrum 460 nm of the 2Fe 2S cluster was monitored as a function of time at pH 6.0 in the absence and presence of stoichiometric pioglitazone 15 M . The binding of the insulin sensitizing drug pioglitazone increased the observed half life by 10 fold. Accordingly the presence of pioglitazone stoichiometric to the total 2Fe 2S cluster concentration increased the stability by 10 fold compared to the control sample lacking pioglitazone .

Although more than 650 structures of Fe S containing proteins are currently available the structure of mitoNEET presented here is unique among all known structures over 44 200 structures currently . illustrates putative functions for MitoNEET in vivo. MitoNEET is shown linked to the outer mitochondrial membrane OMM not to scale . Without wishing to be bound to any one theory two possible functions of mitoNEET can be suggested 1 cluster transfer and 2 and electron transfer.

With respect to electron transfer the 2Fe 2S cluster can be reduced 1 and reoxidized 2 Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 282 33 23745 9 . The 2Fe 2S cluster of recombinant mitoNEET is reversibly reduced oxidized at pH 8.0 consistent with a function for mitoNEET that involves electron transfer. Such functions could include redox reactions with metabolic intermediates cofactors and or proteins localized at the OMM. As mitoNEET regulates maximal respiratory capacity in mouse heart mitochondria it is possible that the protein acts as a sensor adjusting oxidative capacity through participation in a redox sensitive signaling pathway Wiley S E Murphy A N Ross S A van der Geer P Dixon J E 2007 PNAS 104 5318 5323 .

With respect to cluster transfer the 2Fe 2S cluster dissociates from the protein upon protonation of His87. Accordingly changes in the interaction of His87 with the cluster are likely related to its function. In vivo this unique fold of mitoNEET stabilized by pioglitazone interaction may be broken by docking of another protein thereby providing a convenient trigger for cluster release. Binding of pioglitazone to mitoNEET increases the stability of the 2Fe 2S cluster thereby inhibiting release of the cluster.

His87 may not serve as a stabilizing ligand for the 2Fe 2S when protonated because His87 resides at the N terminus of the helical sequence AHTKH SEQ ID No 2 that is predicted to have only marginal helical content in solution but is likely stabilized by cluster binding Mufioz V Serrano L 1997 Biopolymers 41 495 509 . However protonation of the His87 may destabilize the helix facilitating cluster release transfer. A second histidine His58 that forms an unusual interprotomer hydrogen bond with Arg73 is also located near the cluster. Disruption of this hydrogen bond would weaken the interprotomer interaction. Since Arg73 is located sequentially between the Cys ligands of the innermost Fe of the cluster perturbation of its interaction with His58 will likely lead to reorientation of the inner sphere Cys ligands potentially providing additional conformational control of binding. Below pH 8 in vitro the 2Fe 2S cluster is labile the 2Fe 2S cluster is less stable at physiological pH than other 2Fe 2S proteins Wiley S E Paddock M L Abresch E C Gross L van der Geer P Nechushtai R Murphy A N Jennings P A Dixon J E 2007 J. Biol. Chem. 282 33 23745 9 . Modulation of the destabilization stabilization of cluster binding in vivo could be achieved under physiological conditions upon docking of another protein. This would provide a convenient trigger for controlling cluster release.

Modulation of the destabilization stabilization of cluster binding in vivo suggests that mitoNEET participates in Fe S cluster assembly potentially facilitating cluster shuttling between proteins in the mitochondria and cytoplasm. Proteins that act as scaffolds for Fe S cluster assembly are within the mitochondrial matrix and cytoplasm of yeast and mammalian cells although matrix synthesis is believed to predominate Li K Tong W H Hughes R M Rouault T A 2006 J Biol Chem 281 12344 12351 Netz D J Pierik A J Stumpfig M Muhlenhoff U Lill R 2007 Nat Chem Biol 3 278 286 . Although several proteins involved in the export of clusters synthesized in the mitochondrial matrix have been identified in yeast Lill R Muhlenhoff U 2006 Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 22 457 486 Lill R Dutkiewicz R Elsasser H P Hausmann A Netz D J Pierik A J Stehling 0 Urzica E Muhlenhoff U 2006 Biochim Biophys Acta 1763 652 667 the mechanism by which clusters are transported across the OMM and shuttled to cytosolic apoproteins in yeast and in higher organisms is unknown. MitoNEET is uniquely positioned to possibly receive and then transfer a cluster that has crossed the outer membrane or alternately may serve as a Fe S cluster reservoir or storage protein .

Pioglitazone is a highly hydrophobic molecule that is largely bound to serum albumin after patient ingestion and prior to cellular uptake and binding to its intracellular targets Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited www.fda.gov cder foi label 2005 0218421bl.pdf . In addition to hydrophobic interactions binding of pioglitazone increases stability of the 2Fe 2S cluster and of hydrogen bonding interactions within the protein. Taken together with the unique distribution of hydrophobic residues in the dimer the structural results described herein have important implications for both mechanisms of drug action and optimization of TZDs. Although these compounds may activate peroxisome proliferator activating receptors data has accumulated suggesting alternative modes of action involving mitochondria Feinstein D L Spagnolo A Akar C Weinberg G Murphy P Gavrilyuk V Dello Russo C 2005 Biochem Pharmacol 70 177 188 . In view of the foregoing mitoNEET is a desirable target for designing drugs.

The visible resonance Raman spectra were obtained for native mitoNEET a H87C mitoNEET mutant and TZD bound mitoNEET. Measurements were made at several pH levels. Identities of vibrational modes were assigned by comparison with previous ferredoxin and Rieske protein studies. The resonance Raman spectra presented here are the first of their kind for a naturally occurring FeS His Cys cluster binding system.

A key pH dependent mode influenced by the Fe N bond character was identified supporting observations in which increased cluster stability was observed at high pH values Wiley S. E. Paddock M. L. Abresch E. C. Gross L. van der Geer P. Nechushtai R. Murphy A. N. Jennings P. A. Dixon J. E. 2007 282 23745 23749 . pH dependence studies as well as measurements of the H87C mutant enabled the identification of key bands with significant contributions from Fe N motions. These assignments support one hypothesis that the observed pH dependence of the rate of metal cluster loss is due to Nprotonation of the H87 residue. In the presence of pioglitazone the Raman spectra exhibit similar characteristics to those observed at high pH lending molecular support to the increased cluster stability observed through optical kinetics studies under similar conditions Paddock M. L. Wiley S. E. Axelrod H. L. Cohen A. E. Roy M. Abresch E. C. Capraro D. Murphy A. N. Nechushtai R. Dixon J. E. Jennings P. A. 2007 104 14342 14347 .

Cytoplasmic domains of native and H87C mutant mitoNEET were constructed expressed and purified as described herein and in Paddock M. L. Wiley S. E. Axelrod H. L. Cohen A. E. Roy M. Abresch E. C. Capraro D. Murphy A. N. Nechushtai R. Dixon J. E. Jennings P. A. 2007 104 14342 14347 and Wiley S. E. Paddock M. L. Abresch E. C. Gross L. van der Geer P. Nechushtai R. Murphy A. N. Jennings P. A. Dixon J. E. 2007 282 23745 23749 hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. The single histidine ligand H87 of the 2Fe 2S cluster was replaced by cysteine in the H87C mutant creating a 2Fe 2S cluster bound by four cysteines. This mutation retains the 2Fe 2S cluster and is less labile as described herein. The optical ratio A Awas near 2.3 and crystals were grown from the H87C mutant indicating of a high level of purity. Stock protein solutions were stored at 1 mM concentration and diluted to between 100 and 200 M in 100 mM phosphate buffer at the indicated pH for resonance Raman measurements. All samples were measured in the oxidized state as isolated. ferredoxin mFd was expressed and purified as previously described Fish A. Lebendiker M. Nechushtai R. Livnah O. Acta Crystallogr. Sect. D 2003 59 734 736 . Pioglitazone was purchased from Bosche Scientific New Brunswick N.J. and solubilized in 0.1N HCI to 3 mM.

The 2Fe 2S cluster of native mitoNEET is labile and the rate of cluster loss is inversely related to the pH namely k k10 Wiley S. E. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2007 282 23745 23749 . Since the 2Fe 2S center has strong visible absorption bands the cluster loss was assayed by disappearance of the visible absorbance peak near 460 nm. The majority of the decay 80 of the signal loss could be adequately fit to a single exponential. Due to the change in buffer from tris to phosphate the rates of decay in the current study are slower than other reports but are still inversely related to the pH Wiley S. E. Paddock M. L. Abresch E. C. Gross L. van der Geer P. Nechushtai R. Murphy A. N. Jennings P. A. Dixon J. E. 2007 282 23745 23749 .

Laser excitation was provided by the 514.5 nm line of a mixed gas Kr Ar laser Spectra Physics Stabilite . The 50 75 watt beam was focused spot size 10 m diameter into a 1.5 1.8 mm OD capillary that contained protein sample. Experiment durations ranged from 20 to 30 minutes depending on the applied power. For low pH experiments the capillary was translated horizontally across the laser focus during data acquisition. Room temperature Raman spectra of buffered protein solutions and buffer only solutions were acquired. Scattered photons were collected in a right angle geometry by a camera lens and focused onto the 170 m entrance slit of an F 6.9 spectrograph Spex Industries 1700 . Rayleigh scattering was rejected by a 514.5 nm long pass edge filter Semrock RazorEdge whose angle was tuned by optimizing the intensity of the 460 cmCClsignal. The spectrometer was equipped with a 1200 groove mm diffraction grating Horiba Jobin Yvon blazed at 500 nm. Dispersed light was imaged onto a peltier cooled CCD camera Princeton Instruments Pixis 256 . Wavelength calibration was performed with a neon lamp. Reported energies are accurate to 2 cmand the entrance slit bandpass was 7 cm.

Data collection periods were divided into one minute segments to monitor photodamage and manage interference from cosmic rays. Although sequential minute long spectra exhibited a gradual decrease in baseline intensity as much as 40 no peak shifts relative intensity changes or new peaks were observed during the entire course of a 20 30 minute experiment. Individual one minute spectra were summed over the total acquisition time to obtain a single spectrum. Appropriate buffer only spectra were subtracted from sample spectra to remove signal from the buffer and isolate scattering contributions due to the protein. Differences in the Raman spectra of protein and buffer only solutions as a function of pH were evident systematic changes in the buffer only spectra provided a convenient measurement of the pH of the 

Published ferredoxin spectra exhibit wide variety of spectral shapes and peak positions Yachandra V. K. Hare J. Gewirth A. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Holm R. H. Spiro T. G. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 Rotsaert F. A. J. Pikus J. D. Fox B. G. Markley J. L. Sanders Loehr J. 2003 8 318 326 Han S. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Adams M. W. W. Spiro T. G. 1989 111 3505 3511 . shows resonance Raman spectrum of oxidized mFd at pH 7.5.

At pH 7.5 the spectrum of mFd was resolved into 7 peaks in the region between 250 and 450 cm summarized in Table 3. Table 3 shows mFd resonance Raman peak assignments in cm by comparison with bovine adrenodoxin Ado and red algae ferredoxin Fd Han S. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Adams M. W. W. Spiro T. G. 1989 111 3505 3511 . Mode symmetry in idealized Dpoint group for FeSS where Sis a terminal sulfur from a cysteine residue and Sis a bridging sulfur member of the cluster. The coordinate system is defined by an x axis collinear with Fe atoms a y axis collinear with bridging S atoms and a z axis perpendicular to Fe Splane with the origin at the center of inversion.

The assignments of mFd were based on similarity to those previously assigned in ferredoxin from red algae and bovine adrenodoxin Kuila D. Schoonover J. R. Dyer R. B. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. Fee J. A. Woodruff W. H. 1992 1140 175 183 . Power dependence experiments in the range 10 100 mW were performed. No power dependent changes in peak position width and relative intensities were observed across this region inset indicating that 50 75 mW does not cause measurable photodamage. There is noticeable deviation from the idealized power signal relationship at low power 10 mW but error is expected to be increased at low power due to decreased signal noise ratio.

Resonance Raman spectra of native and H87C mitoNEET were compared to help identify normal modes with large contribution from the Fe N moiety. Spectra measured at pH 7.5 are shown in along with the absorption spectra of the two forms of mitoNEET inset . The Raman spectra were normalized to the amplitude of the observed peak near 330 cm. The most prominent differences between native and H87C mitoNEET were the disappearance of bands at 485 and 405 cmand the change in band compositions in the 250 300 cmand 360 420 cmregions. The Fe N vibrations of interest are likely to be found Bands in the 250 300 cmregion Kuila D. Fee J. A. Schoonover J. R. Woodruff W. H. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1987 109 1559 1561 .

Resonance Raman spectra of native and H87C mitoNEET were obtained at pH values 7.5 7.0 and 6.2. The spectra shown in can be divided into three regions for consideration region I 250 300 cm region II 300 360 cm and region III 360 420 cm . The most significant spectral changes as a function of pH were observed in region I. shows decomposition of region I of native mitoNEET into three Gaussian bands. Upon decreasing the pH from 7.5 to 6.2 a peak shifted from 266 to 262 cm but the energies of the other two bands remained relatively constant at 276 and 292 cm. The relative intensities of the 275 cmto the 266 and 292 cmbands also showed a pH dependence. Upon decreasing the pH from 7.5 to 7.0 and then to 6.2 the I Iratio decreased from 1.69 to 1.58 and then to 1.51. Over the same intervals the I Iratio decreased considerably from 2.04 to 1.40 to 1.07. Finally the ratio of the 292 cmto 266 cmband shifted from 0.83 pH 7.5 to 1.34 pH 6.2 .

Regions II and III showed subtle changes. Region II was decomposed into four bands no systematic shifts were observed and the peak positions remained unchanged as a function of pH. However some relative intensity variations were observed. For example the intensity ratio of the middle two peaks changed with pH. This shift in relative intensities was evident in the raw spectra in the form of a sharp peak 329 cm in pH 7.5 that evolved to a plateau at pH 6.2. Region III was decomposed into three bands the two bands at 374 and 382 cm pH 7.5 shifted to lower energy 372 and 378 cm respectively at pH 6.2 while the band at 393 cmremained constant. The relative intensities in this region were unchanged.

Resonance Raman spectra of mitoNEET at pH 7.5 and pH 6.2 were obtained in the presence and absence of pioglitazone . At pH 7.5 two of the bands 267 and 292 cm in region I were found at energies similar to those observed in the absence of the drug 266 and 292 cm . The center band at 275 cm shifted to a higher energy and appeared at 281 cmin the presence of the drug. In addition to this shift in peak position major differences were observed in the relative intensities summarized in Table 4 . Table 4 shows the intensity ratio changes of native mitoNEET at pH 7.5 and 6.2 in the absence and presence of pioglitazone Pio . Peaks I I and I are as noted on .

While the center band 275 cm had the greatest intensity without pioglitazone its relative intensity diminished greatly upon addition of the drug. In the absence of drug the relative intensities I Iand I Iwere 1.7 and 2.0 respectively. Binding of the drug altered these ratios to 0.5 and 0.8 respectively. Region II remained largely unchanged upon drug binding band positions fluctuated less than 1 cmand relative intensities varied less than 7 . Region III also displayed only minimal alterations in band positions upon binding of the drug. However changes in relative intensities were observed upon addition of drug specifically the ratio I Icmshifted from 1.3 to 0.7 in the presence of drug.

At pH 6.2 region I exhibited similar changes to those observed at pH 7.5. The band at 276 cmshifted to higher energy and was observed at 279 cm. The peak at 262 cmalso shifted to 265 cm. Although a shift in the location of this peak was not observed at pH 7.5 in the absence of the drug the peak was observed at lower energy at pH 6.2 compared to pH 8 7.5. Modifications in intensity ratios were similar to those seen at pH 7.5. While the relative intensity ratios I Iand I Iwere 1.5 and 1.1 in the absence of pioglitazone addition of the drug decreased both of these ratios to 0.5. The spectra of mitoNEET with and without pioglitazone in region II were essentially equivalent. The one notable change in region III was the shift of the peak at 378 cmto 382 cmupon addition of pioglitazone. In addition I Idecreased as was observed at pH 7.5.

The naturally occurring FeS His Cys motif in mitoNEET is unique. While several related and engineered ferredoxin like and Rieske like molecules have been studied by a variety of spectroscopic techniques including resonance Raman X ray absorption and circular dichroism the current example is the first resonance Raman study of a naturally occurring His Cys binding motif in 2Fe 2S cluster binding proteins Kounosu A. et al. J. Biol. Chem 2004 279 19 12528 Yachandra V. K. et al. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 Kuila D. et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 Kuila D. et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987 109 1559 1561 Spiro T. G. et al. In Biological Applications of Raman Spectroscopy Spiro T. G. Ed. 1988 Vol. 3 p. 523 553 Rose K. et al. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1999 121 2353 2363 Cosper N. J. et al. Prot. Sci. 2002 11 2969 2973 Iwasaki T. et al J. Biol. Chem. 1996 271 27659 27663 Fu W. G. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1992 267 15502 15510 . The visible absorption bands of Rieske proteins ferredoxins and presumably mitoNEET arise from a ligand to metal charge transfer and Fe S and Fe N normal modes are observed in resonance Raman spectroscopy Yachandra V. K. et al. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 Rotsaert F. A. J. et al. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 2003 8 318 326 Han S. et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989 111 3505 3511 Kuila D. et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 Fu W. G. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1992 267 15502 15510 Tang S. P. W. et al. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm 1973 53 869 874 . The absorption spectra of native and H87C mutant mitoNEET are similar at wavelengths above 500 nm inset . In addition the absorption spectra of native mitoNEET with and without pioglitazone are identical in the visible region inset . Because of the similarity in absorption cross sections at the excitation wavelength of 514 nm we do not anticipate major alterations in Raman scattering intensities due to changes in enhancement factors.

Primary modes of interest are those with contributions from Fe N vibrations and are expected to be found in the 200 300 cmregion and other work on Rieske proteins have made Fe N mode assignments in the 266 300 cmregion Kuila D. Fee J. A. Schoonover J. R. Woodruff W. H. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987 109 1559 1561 Kuila D. Schoonover J. R. Dyer R. B. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. Fee J. A. Woodruff W. H. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 Iwasaki T. Imai T. Urushiyama A. Oshima T. J. Biol. Chem. 1996 271 27659 27663 . Specifically the peak near 266 cmis attributed to having contributions from the neutral ligating histidine shown as the moderate pH species in . Other studies have also suggested the presence of Fe S peaks in this region Rotsaert F. A. J. Pikus J. D. Fox B. G. Markley J. L. Sanders Loehr J. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 2003 8 318 326 Kounosu A. Li Z. R. Cosper N. J. Shokes J. E. Scott R. A. Imai T. Urushiyama A. Iwasaki T. J. Biol. Chem 2004 279 19 12528 . These other studies coupled to the disappearance of the band near 265 cmin the H87C mutant make it feasible to tentatively assign 265 cmas a mode with significant Fe N contribution. With a pKvalue of 6.0 6.5 when not bound to a metal the population of doubly protonated histidine residues should increase as pH decreases shown in Yue K. T. Lee M. H. Zheng J. Callender R. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1991 1078 296 302 . The current observation that the relative intensity of the 265 cmpeak decreases with a drop in pH is consistent with this prediction and further supports the claim that the 265 cmis heavily influenced by Fe N motion.

The intensity of the 275 cmmode also decreases as a function of pH. Therefore it is likely that this mode is sensitive to the protonation state of the ligating histidine group. However its persistence in the H87C mutant spectra implies that its nature is more complicated than a pure Fe N mode. Neutral and high pH resonance Raman studies of Rieske type proteins have reported pH dependent changes in the spectra that were attributed to a change in protonation state of the ligating histidine N atom Kuila D. Schoonover J. R. Dyer R. B. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. Fee J. A. Woodruff W. H. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 Kuila D. Fee J. A. Schoonover J. R. Woodruff W. H. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987 109 1559 1561 Iwasaki T. Imai T. Urushiyama A. Oshima T. J. Biol. Chem. 1996 271 27659 27663 . Kuila et al. suggested that the binding of Fe to the N atom of histidine in Rieske proteins lowers the pKof N to 9 thereby rationalizing the assignment of the peak near 274 cmto the Fe N stretch of a deprotonated ligating histidine residue Kuila D. Schoonover J. R. Dyer R. B. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. Fee J. A. Woodruff W. H. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 . Other studies based on both experiment and calculation have determined histidine NpKvalues for Rieske proteins ranging from 7.5 11.5 Lin I. J. Chen Y. Fee J. A. Song J. K. Westler W. M. Markley J. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006 128 10672 10673 Klingen A. R. Ullmann G. M. Biochemistry 2004 43 12383 12389 . Another report contradicted the assignment of 274 cmto Fe N deprotonated and instead attributed it to backbone deformations Iwasaki T. Kounosu A. Kolling D. R. J. Crofts A. R. Dikanov S. A. Jin A. Imai T. Urushiyama A. J. Am Chem Soc. 2004 126 4788 4789 . Since the conditions of the experiments here reported are unlikely to result in deprotonatation of the ligating histidine residue the possibility that the 275 cmpeak arises from an anionic histidine ligand is excluded. Therefore is it noted that there are at least two possible interpretations of the 275 cmpeak. First this peak may reflect a mode that is primarily composed of Fe S vibration and is highly sensitive to the protonation state of the ligating histidine residue its persistence in H87C is consistent with this interpretation. Alternatively the 275 cmmode may primarily reflect the Fe N neutral histidine moiety that disappears in H87C a new Fe S peak then appears in the same region in the H87C spectrum.

The final peak in region I of native mitoNEET is located near 292 cm. Based on other assignments of Fe S modes and the observed invariance of this peak position or intensity as a function of pH the 292 cmpeak is tentatively assigned to an Fe S mode Yachandra V. K. Hare J. Gewirth A. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Holm R. H. Spiro T. G. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 Rotsaert F. A. J. Pikus J. D. Fox B. G. Markley J. L. Sanders Loehr J. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 2003 8 318 326 Han S. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Adams M. W. W. Spiro T. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989 111 3505 3511 Fu W. G. Drozdzewski P. M. Davies M. D. Sligar S. G. Johnson M. K. J. Biol. Chem. 1992 267 15502 15510 Tang S. P. W. Spiro T. G. Mukai K. Kimura T. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm 1973 53 869 874 . The absence of a 292 cmmode in the H87C mutant may be explained by 1 the 292 cmmode shifts to 283 cmupon the H87 C mutation or 2 the change in symmetry of the metal cluster results in different sets of Raman active modes. Peaks in this 290 cmarea have been observed in ferredoxins and ferredoxin model complexes and therefore support our tentative assignment of the 292 cmmode to the Fe S group Yachandra V. K. Hare J. Gewirth A. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Holm R. H. Spiro T. G. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 .

The relative intensity variations of the Fe N peaks in region I suggest that the changes to the nature of the Fe N bond that occur with decreasing pH compose an integral step of the process that leads to the loss of the active cluster a process evidenced by the disappearance of visible absorption. There are three additional histidine residues in each monomer unit of mitoNEET H90 is located within 10 of the 2Fe 2S cluster while the H48 and H58 side chains are located 10 from the metal cluster. Based on the fact that the H87C mutant which still contains these 3 peripheral His residues showed no major spectral changes as a function of pH it is unlikely that global protein conformational changes arising from protonation of one of the non ligating histidine residues is independently responsible for the loss in metal cluster or observed changes in native mitoNEET resonance Raman spectra.

Energetic considerations and previous work with ferredoxins and Rieske type proteins suggest that regions II and III are expected to be composed primarily of Fe S modes Yachandra V. K. Hare J. Gewirth A. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Holm R. H. Spiro T. G. J. Am Chem. Soc. 1983 105 6462 6468 Rotsaert F. A. J. Pikus J. D. Fox B. G. Markley J. L. Sanders Loehr J. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 2003 8 318 326 Han S. Czernuszewicz R. S. Kimura T. Adams M. W. W. Spiro T. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989 111 3505 3511 Kuila D. Schoonover J. R. Dyer R. B. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. Fee J. A. Woodruff W. H. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1992 1140 175 183 Kuila D. Fee J. A. Schoonover J. R. Woodruff W. H. Batie C. J. Ballou D. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987 109 1559 1561 Han S. Czernuszewicz R. S. Spiro T. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989 111 3496 3504 . The observed invariance in peak positions and relative intensities at all pH values between the native and H87C forms of mitoNEET supports these assignments for mitoNEET. Disappearance of the peak near 382 cmand appearance of a new peak near 404 cmupon replacement of the ligating His87 to Cys in mitoNEET may be explained in terms of a peak shift from 382 to 404 cm. The 382 and 404 cmpeaks are beyond the expected energy range for Fe N modes and therefore likely reflect Fe S vibrations. These and other observed alterations of Fe S modes upon ligand replacement are likely due to changes in cluster geometry.

Resonance Raman changes were observed upon addition of pioglitazone . At both pH 7.5 and 6.2 addition of pioglitazone altered region I. Specifically the relative intensity of the Fe N peak near 265 cmincreased while the peak near 275 cmdecreased. Additionally the intensity of the peak near 292 cmincreased. As demonstrated herein the addition of pioglitazone enhances the stability of the cluster suggesting that the drug inhibits the rate of cluster release. The observed rise in the 265 cmband intensity upon drug binding supports this idea it may decrease the pKof the Nhistidine thereby increasing the steady state population of stable mitoNEET species. Crystal structure data indicate that the H87 side chain is approximately 35 surface exposed making direct interaction between the side chain and TZDs a distinct possibility. Alternatively drug binding may directly alter the metal cluster structure such that scattering cross sections are modified or binding may occur allosterically and indirectly alter geometry of the metal cluster via global protein conformational changes. However since no changes in the optical spectra of mitoNEET pioglitazone were observed at wavelengths above 300 nm these two mechanisms are considered to be less likely than the first proposed. Other minor shifts in peak positions and intensities are observed in regions II and III.

MitoNEET levels in the livers of diabetic rats correlates with the measured blood glucose in control and rosiglitazone treated rats further establishing the involvement of mitoNEET in diabetes. The mitoNEET protein level were examined in liver tissues obtained from diabetic ZDF rats treated or not treated control with rosiglitazone.

Sixteen male ZDF rats were housed in filter cages 2 or 3 animals per cage. Weight and blood glucose levels were measured every week. The blood glucose was measured at the fed state 07 30 am and after 6 hours fast 1 30 m . The Animals were divided into two groups a control group and a rosiglitazone treated group. Animals were treated daily for 3 weeks once a day 5 times a week with rosiglitazone 10 mg kg by gavage 0.7 ml for the rosi treated rats or 0.7 ml saline for the control rats. After three weeks liver muscle and epididymal fat were collected and immediately frozen.

The average glucose blood level after fed of the control group was 240 mg dl in the rosiglitazone treated rats some responded in a medium manner to the treatment after three weeks of rosiglitazone treatment their glucose blood levels after fed was 120 140 mg dl and some rats responded very well to rosiglitazone treatment and after three weeks their glucose blood levels after fed was 80 mg dl. The average levels of blood glucose in these three groups are shown in .

From each rat liver a piece about 100 mg of tissue was homogenized in liquid nitrogen to microscopic pieces like sand and resuspended in 800 l of STN buffer 0.4 M Sucrose 10 mM Tricin NaOH pH 8.0 10 mM NaCl that contained 1 mM of PMSF Amino Caproic Acid and Benzamidine . Homogenized samples were stored in liquid nitrogen till their sonication. Sonication was for 5 cycles of 30 seconds each on ice. The protein concentration of each sample was determined by the Bradford Protein Assay and samples at equal protein concentration were taken. To 100 l sample SDS and BME were added to a final concentration of 2 . Samples were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. SDS PAGE dissociation buffer was added and the samples were further incubated for 1 hour at 50 C.

A 12 SDS PAGE gel was loaded with samples molecular weight markers and pure mitoNEET controls. The total protein applied to each lane varied from 50 g to 150 g. Each gel was run in duplicate one gel was stained be Commassie blue and the other gel was electro transferred. Electro transfer was in a semi dry cell for 30 45 minutes transfer at 15 V and 2 mA. The latter was incubated 1 hour with blocking buffer followed by 2 hours incubation with anti mitoNEET at 1 125 dilution followed by incubation with Goat anti rabbit second antibody. ECL reagent was used to detect the antibody antigen reaction in the Image reader of Fuji. The density at each detected band was evaluated by the specific software. indicates the density of representatives of the anti mitoNEET mitoNEET interacting bands in the three rats groups control medium well responding rats to rosiglitazone treatment.

All the analyzed results exhibited the same pattern control diabetic rats that were not treated with rosiglitazone maintained high blood glucose and showed high mitoNEET levels rats that responded in a medium manner to the rosiglitazone treatment with respect to their blood glucose levels showed medium mitoNEET levels and rat that responded well to the rosiglitazone treatment with respect to their blood glucose levels showed very low mitoNEET levels. Accordingly mitoNEET levels in the livers of diabetic rats correlates with the measured blood glucose in control and rosiglitazone treated rats further establishing the involvement of mitoNEET in diabetes.

The above description discloses subject matter including several embodiments for methods and compositions. This subject matter is susceptible to modification and such modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of this description and or practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. Consequently it is not intended that this invention be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed herein but that it cover all modifications and alternatives coming within the true scope and spirit of the invention.

All references cited herein including but not limited to published and unpublished applications patents literature references and web sites are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and are hereby made a part of this specification. To the extent publications and patents or patent applications incorporated by reference contradict the disclosure contained in the specification the specification is intended to supersede and or take precedence over any such contradictory material.

The term comprising as used herein is synonymous with including containing or characterized by and is inclusive or open ended and does not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps.

All numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth herein are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of any claims in any application claiming priority to the present application each numerical parameter should be construed in light of the number of significant digits and ordinary rounding approaches.

