---

title: Printed wiring board feed-through capacitor
abstract: A feed-through capacitor is constructed in a printed wiring board using alternating layers of metal capacitive layers and plastic dielectric layers of the printed wiring board. The large number of layers, the avoidance of ceramic layers and the flexible geometry of this device allow it to be used in many applications, particularly in those involving high power high current. Also, because it utilizes a printed wiring board, the capacitor can be made in numerous sizes and shapes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08325461&OS=08325461&RS=08325461
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08325461
owner_city: Rockford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080808
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. N0019 02 C 3002 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A feed through capacitor connects to a conductive shaft or stud that passes through a chassis wall and it filters unwanted high frequency electromagnetic interference from an electrical circuit. A feed through capacitor may be used on either an input or output conductor and it prevents electromagnetic interference from getting into or out of the circuit. Feed through capacitors are generally positioned close to a connection interface in order to isolate the connection from electromagnetic interference.

Feed through capacitors are connected from a conductor to the chassis of a device and they provide a path for high frequency current to flow from the conductor to the chassis. In a typical feed through capacitor a capacitive element surrounds the stud and is coupled to both the stud and the inside of the chassis wall. The capacitive element provides a low impedance path from the stud to the chassis wall. However the capacitive element appears as an insulator to low frequency current and therefore it does not divert the low frequencies from the stud to the chassis. High frequencies in contrast are shunted from the stud to the chassis. In essence a feed through capacitor is a short circuit that only short circuits frequencies that are undesirable for a particular application. Feed through capacitors generally operate in the kilohertz to megahertz range.

Feed through capacitors are typically made for small contacts and small currents and are commonly used in low power radio frequency applications. In high power applications and particularly high current applications there is no generally accepted method for applying feed through capacitors to a circuit. High power applications require capacitors with large capacitance. Most feed through capacitors utilize ceramic discs as their dielectric layer and since capacitance is proportional to the size of the capacitor s dielectric layer high power applications require capacitors with large ceramic discs. Because ceramics are brittle by nature it is difficult to make ceramic discs large enough for use in capacitors for high power circuits.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a feed through capacitor that is able to work effectively in high power and particularly high current circuits. It is also desirable that the feed through capacitor be simple and inexpensive to manufacture yet sturdy enough for industrial applications.

The invention is a feed through capacitor that utilizes a printed wiring board as the capacitive element. The feed through capacitor is built in the printed wiring board as a multi layer stack allowing it to be easily integrated into circuits that are constructed on the printed wiring board. The invention exhibits a high capacitance and avoids the need for brittle and expensive ceramic dielectric layers. As a result the invention may be used in high power and high current applications for which traditional feed through capacitors are not suitable.

Because feed through capacitor does not use a ceramic material for its dielectric layer it is sturdier and lighter than traditional ceramic feed through capacitors. Also using a polymer as a dielectric material in feed through capacitor allows feed through capacitor to be constructed in any printed wiring board. Feed through capacitor may be made in any size limited only by the size of printed wiring boards that can be fabricated. In addition ceramic capacitors are limited in shape to discs toroids or blocks because only simple shapes are practicable for manufacture with ceramics. A printed wiring board capacitor allows the use of almost any shape because the printed wiring board can be cut into different shapes. Furthermore ceramic capacitors must by their nature be relatively thin. In contrast printed wiring board capacitor is made of multiple layers of metals and polymers and thus may be made in any thickness. Also the use of multiple layers of metals and polymers in printed wiring board feed through capacitor allows for the use of a smaller footprint for the capacitor. Instead of making the footprint larger to increase capacitance as would be necessary with traditional ceramic capacitors additional layers may be added to printed wiring board feed through capacitor to increase capacitance. In some embodiments multiple printed wiring board substrates and metal layers may be stacked to form the desired feed through capacitor configuration.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the alternating metal and dielectric layers of feed through capacitor can be made from any suitable materials. By way of example in one embodiment of feed through capacitor 0.5 ounce 14 gram copper material of 0.0007 inches 0.018 millimeters in thickness is used for the metal layers and a polymer of 0.0050 inches 0.13 millimeters in thickness is used for dielectric layer . One embodiment of the capacitor produces a value between 0.0112 to 0.0115 microfarads using polyimide as the dielectric material and 0.0133 to 0.0163 microfarads using FR 4 as the dielectric material.

By utilizing printed wiring boards as the manufacturing elements for feed through capacitors the size of the feed through capacitor is limited only by the size of the presses which are used to make the printed wiring boards. Traditional feed through capacitors use a ceramic material for the dielectric layer. Capacitance is proportional to the size of the dielectric layer and it is difficult to manufacture ceramic discs of a sufficient size for use in high current applications because ceramic materials are brittle and large ceramic discs will break.

In contrast the present invention uses a feed through capacitor built in a printed wiring board. Ceramics are not used so there is no danger that the ceramic dielectric will break. Therefore printed wiring board feed through capacitors are ideally suited for high current applications. Also because the invention is manufactured using circuit board fabrication techniques the invention may be made in many sizes shapes and thicknesses. It is also less expensive to manufacture than traditional ceramic disc feed through capacitors.

Furthermore a printed wiring board feed through capacitor may be connected to any part of a circuit in the same manner that other components are connected together in printed wiring board circuit. For example additional discrete capacitance or devices for voltage sensing current sensing or current monitoring could be built onto the printed wiring board in addition to the feed through capacitor. Thus for example a feed through capacitor could be built onto a certain portion of the printed wiring board and the feed through capacitor could be used for other applications that would normally require the addition of multiple capacitors to the printed wiring board. The use of printed wiring board capacitors allows more complex shapes and simplicity of connecting circuit elements in a circuit. In many applications this more flexible geometry and ease of connection greatly outweighs the added weight of the printed wiring board feed through capacitor.

The invention is a feed through capacitor that is constructed in a printed wiring board. The capacitor uses alternating layers of metal and a plastic dielectric material. The large number of layers and the flexible geometry of this device allow it to be used in many applications particularly in those involving high power high current.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

