---

title: System and method for dynamically enabling an application for business continuity
abstract: System and method for dynamically enabling an application for business continuity are described. In one embodiment, a business continuity engine (“BCE”) for managing and controlling a high-availability applications comprises a configuration management module for maintaining information regarding the current configuration of a BC application; a status monitor for monitoring a status of the BC application via a high-availability (“HA”) wrapper thereof and initiating a migration of the BC application from a first server of a primary cluster to a second location of a secondary cluster based on the determined status; and an application migration module for migrating the BC application to the second server responsive to the initiating. The BCE further comprises a storage area network (“SAN”) migration module for enabling storage media for use by the BC application; and a communications module for facilitating an exchange of data between the BC engine and the BC application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688773&OS=08688773&RS=08688773
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08688773
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080818
---
The current economic and business environment dictates that organizations must have in place a strong Business Continuity Plan BCP to ensure that in the event of a man made or natural disaster the operations and activities of the organization can continue with little to no interruption. In general a well designed BCP specifies how an organization will recover and restore partially or completely interrupted critical functions within a predetermined time after a disruption.

Business Continuity Clustering BCC ensures that in the event of an isolated server problem or even a severe calamity an organization s systems function normally and without noticeable service interruption. BCC connects and synchronizes independent often geographically dispersed clusters of servers or nodes. If a data center s cluster fails for any reason the other clusters assume the workload thereof to ensure non stop access to mission critical data and resources. In short BCC provides synchronization among geographically dispersed clusters however BCC does not provide managerial functions for individual resources per se. In other words in BCC when a primary cluster fails the entire operations of the primary cluster are moved to one or more secondary clusters without regard to the particular resources being employed.

One embodiment is a business continuity engine BCE for managing and controlling a high availability applications. The BCE comprises a configuration management module for maintaining information regarding the current configuration of a BC application a status monitor for monitoring a status of the BC application via a high availability HA wrapper thereof and initiating a migration of the BC application from a first server of a primary cluster to a second location of a secondary cluster based on the determined status and an application migration module for migrating the BC application to the second server responsive to the initiating. The BCE further comprises a storage area network SAN migration module for enabling storage media for use by the BC application and a communications module for facilitating an exchange of data between the BC engine and the BC application.

To better illustrate the advantages and features of the embodiments a particular description of several embodiments will be provided with reference to the attached drawings. These drawings and other embodiments described herein only illustrate selected aspects of the embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. Further despite reference to specific features illustrated in the example embodiments it will nevertheless be understood that these features are not essential to all embodiments and no limitation of the scope thereof is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the embodiments as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art. Furthermore some items are shown in a simplified form and inherently include components that are well known in the art. Further still some items are illustrated as being in direct connection for the sake of simplicity and clarity. Despite the apparent direct connection it is understood that such illustration does not preclude the existence of intermediate components not otherwise illustrated.

In one embodiment system and method are provided to enable a high availability HA application for business continuity. In particular a configuration management and monitoring service is provided for configuring an application to be monitored and in the event of primary cluster failure automatically migrate the application to a secondary cluster. As used herein the following terms have the following meanings 

One embodiment comprises a set of application programming interfaces APIs exposed to an application via an HA wrapper which APIs can be employed by the application to directly access a business continuity engine BCE as described below. Application vendors may employ the HA wrapper APIs to enable an application as a Business Continuity BC application. As will be described in greater detail below the APIs enable BC applications to provide information to and retrieve information from the BCE. Such information may include for example BC configuration e.g. whether the application is enabled application status communication status candidate migration destinations necessary steps for online necessary steps for offline and current system requirements for the application.

In accordance with features of one embodiment each server of the cluster includes a BCE similarly each server of the cluster includes a BCE . The BCEs each comprise a system that provides a means of managing and controlling BC applications. The BCEs communicate via a common information model CIM .

In particular the configuration management module interfaces with the status monitor module to determine the health of the BC application and its host server. The configuration management module notifies the application migration module and the SAN migration module that the BC application needs to be migrated. The communications module interfaces with the configuration management module to allow the application to set and retrieve configuration information. The communications module also interfaces with the status monitor module to provide internal status of the application.

Referring again to in operation a BCE is loaded onto each server of the primary and secondary clusters . Next a BC application is loaded onto a server of the primary cluster . The data of the BC application is mirrored to the secondary cluster so as to be available for use by that cluster in the event the application must be migrated thereto as represented by a BC application . The BC application periodically communicates its status to the primary cluster via the HA wrapper thereof. The primary and secondary clusters also communicate status to one another via the CIM . The BC application and the primary and secondary clusters negotiate to determine the health of the BC application based on configuration provided in the configuration management module . Via its HA wrapper the BC application is able to retrieve information regarding the available servers of the secondary cluster as well as to broadcast its system requirements and current status to the BCE of the server on which it is installed which information is used by the BCE to manage status migration and failover.

The embodiments illustrated herein leverage off of BCC in that they are tied specifically to an application in the form of an HA wrapper with a configuration that may be developed and distributed by the application vendor with the application. Additionally customized monitoring and application status may be built into the HA wrapper thereby enabling the monitoring to be dynamic based on the application s own awareness as well as on external information. Still further the HA wrapper has the ability to dynamically define the system requirements necessary for the application to be migrated at its current state so that the application is not migrated to a server on which it cannot be safely loaded. The HA wrapper may also dynamically define the steps necessary to unload it from the current cluster and then reload it on a new cluster based on information retrieved from the available clusters.

While the preceding description shows and describes one or more embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example various steps of the described methods may be executed in a different order or executed sequentially combined further divided replaced with alternate steps or removed entirely. In addition various functions illustrated in the methods or described elsewhere in the disclosure may be combined to provide additional and or alternate functions. Therefore the claims should be interpreted in a broad manner consistent with the present disclosure.

