---

title: Systems and methods for aggregating data for real-time financial plan
abstract: Aggregation processes and systems acquire user data from many internal and external sources, such as a host financial institution, external institutions, and publicly available websites and databases. The data aggregation may be used to pre-populate the fields in a questionnaire that would otherwise have to be manually populated by the user. A financial plan based on the data is generated and provided to the user. After presenting the financial plan to the user, additional information may be requested from the user. After the additional information is received, the financial plan may be revised and provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620785&OS=08620785&RS=08620785
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08620785
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080228
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 039 302 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 039 352 each filed on Feb. 28 2008 and each entitled Systems And Methods For Aggregating Data For Real Time Financial Plan. 

Financial planners try to determine how their clients can meet financial goals through management of resources. They examine the financial history of their client s assets and develop a financial plan the client should take to meet their goals. The financial plan is based on a client s financial situation at one point in time. However financial planning is data heavy that constantly changes. Financial planners are not able to continuously monitor a client s financial situation and revise the financial plan accordingly. Delays in receiving updated client data lead to delays in revising financial plans.

Additionally a financial plan is often generated and provided using a limited set of data that is often not up to date. Such limited data leads to inaccurate or inappropriate financial plans.

A comprehensive set of data pertaining to a user is gathered from various sources and analyzed. A financial plan comprising financial advice and or recommendations for example is generated and provided to the user. After presenting the financial plan to the user additional information may be requested from the user. After the additional information is received the financial plan may be revised and provided to the user.

Aggregation processes and systems acquire user data from many internal and external sources such as a host financial institution external institutions and publicly available websites and databases. The acquired data is stored and used to generate a financial plan. The data aggregation may be used to pre populate the fields in a questionnaire that would otherwise have to be manually populated by the user.

When the user desires a financial plan a financial planning engine may use the data that had been previously acquired and stored in one or more internal data source s and may generate the plan based on the data. The financial planning engine may access external data from the external data source s in direct response to the user request to generate a financial plan.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The financial planning engine may include a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine an analyzer and advice generator an internal data source access engine and an external data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the financial planning engine . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system .

The financial planning engine has access to data pertaining to the user including data that is currently stored by the institution that maintains the financial planning engine as well as a user s external accounts. The integration and aggregation engine provides the financial planning engine the ability to retrieve information from one or more internal data sources and one or more external data sources concurrently in an implementation via an internal data source access engine and an external data source access engine respectively. Data pertaining to the user may be retrieved from internal source s as well as external data source s . The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage .

Internal data source s may contain data that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as marital status and age as well as financial data such as account balances outstanding loans credit card debt etc. For instance the user may have a checking account a credit card and an auto loan with the institution system and this information may be retrieved and used by the financial planning engine .

External data source s may contain additional data pertaining to the user such as additional personal data and or financial data. External data source s may be associated with one or more entities that may be independent of each other. Each of the external data source s may be a computer system that maintains financial information or financial accounts of the user that is not maintained by the institution system . It is contemplated that any number of external data sources may be in communication with the institution system and may provide any type of data associated with users thereto.

Various external data sources are shown such as credit cards financial institutions financial software applications and public databases . The external data source s may be in communication with the institution system via a network such as the Internet. Additional example sources of data may include bank accounts retirement accounts brokerage accounts mutual funds annuities certificates of deposits and investment accounts for example along with publicly available information. For example data from investment and retirement accounts might include mutual funds bonds etc. and may be acquired and used in financial planning.

The integration and aggregation engine may receive user information from the internal and external data source access engines and and may provide that information to the analyzer and advice generator . Via the internal and external data source access engines and in an implementation the integration and aggregation engine may receive user data from the various external data sources as well as the internal data source s which may contain previously retrieved data and or data that is hosted by the institution and may provide that information to the analyzer and advice generator .

The user data may be contained within a host financial institution e.g. the institution that maintains or uses the financial planning engine or contained in external institutions for example. The received user data may also be stored in internal data source s . Data that is aggregated may include income expenses assets risk profile risk tolerance and plan horizon for example. Additionally data from investment and retirement accounts that might include mutual funds bonds etc. may be acquired aggregated and used in the financial planning. In this manner a more complete set of a user s assets and liabilities may be used for financial planning determination. So for example spending and income from relevant areas may be retrieved stored and analyzed for financial planning.

A user may provide access to this data with the host financial institution prior to the financial plan being generated or after the financial plan has been generated in order to provide additional data for a revised financial plan . The access may be granted by providing the appropriate credentials for the external accounts to the host institution that is generating the financial plan. The access may be one time persistent or for a limited duration e.g. 6 months for example. The aggregated data may be stored in internal data source s for example and may be automatically updated periodically if access to the external data may still be obtained.

The external data items may be retrieved screen scraped through private third party websites e.g. websites associated with credit cards and financial institutions if the user has provided permission and proper credentials for accessing such private third party websites. Publicly available data might include data acquired from sites and resources such as the stock market government pages that publish inflation rates and other items that might be used in financial planning for example. Screen scraping is well known and it is contemplated that any appropriate screen scraping product or technique may be used.

After retrieving and storing the data from the various sources the analyzer and advice generator may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to generate a financial plan . Or alternatively the analyzer and advice generator may access the external data from the source s in direct response to the user request for financial advice. Because the access had previously been granted the analyzer and advice generator may extract the data for the analysis based on the access.

In an implementation the analyzer and advice generator may include one or more of a portfolio planner a financial assessment tool a budget generating tool an asset allocation tool a life insurance determination calculator a retirement advice generator bank calculators debt analyzers retirement income planners etc. The analyzer and advice generator may evaluate the user information e.g. the personal information and the financial information pertaining to the user and generate a financial plan that may comprise financial advice and or recommendations for the user .

In an implementation after the external data is acquired it may be used to pre fill or personalize certain portions of a questionnaire that may be provided to a user to request additional information that may be useful for generating a financial plan. The fields or items remaining without user data after the pre filling or personalization may then be identified and brought to the user s attention e.g. by highlighting these items on the user computing device or by using another identifying mechanism to show the user what information is still needed. This information if any may then be manually provided by the user . Additionally or alternatively additional information may be requested from the user to further refine an already generated financial plan. The external data may be stored in the internal data source s after it is acquired.

In an implementation the financial plan along with its financial advice and recommendations may be integrated into a single unified presentation which may then be sent to the user interface module for presentation to the user . Through this mechanism the user may quickly see the financial plan that has been generated for them. Thus in an implementation a financial plan may be provided online e.g. via the website to the user and as described further herein may be updated continuously or periodically by the institution system .

The user may interface with the institution system via the website that may display one or more pages of content to the user on the user computing device . A financial advice request may be received at the institution system through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with a financial advice server or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion.

The request may be processed by the financial planning engine which then provides the user with a financial plan . In an implementation the user may be provided with advice recommendations and or a plan directed to asset management estate planning insurance investments and retirement for example. The financial plan may comprise a set of recommendations and strategies for the user to use. For example recommendations and strategies may be provided that are directed to income in retirement income for shortfall or surplus income distribution pre retirement savings asset allocation recommendations asset withdrawal strategies and recommendations for re allocation from wealth building to income generating. Additionally specific product recommendations may be provided along with a list of suitable products for user consideration for example.

The financial plan may also comprise a financial profile for the user who may use it to create and maintain financial information about the user . The financial profile may include income assets liabilities and social security and pension information for example. The institution system may continuously on a real time basis or periodically repeatedly over a period of time monitor the user s data the financial profile and the user s implementation of recommendations set forth in the financial plan and revise the financial plan accordingly. In this manner real time or periodic updates to the financial plan may be provided to the user .

The financial planning engine may provide a questionnaire to the user that requests information from the user such as financial objectives current income investments risk tolerance expenses tax returns insurance coverage retirement programs estate plans and other pertinent information that may be used to generate a financial plan that meets the user s overall or specific financial agenda. The questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with data already known to the institution system pertaining to the user perhaps from existing accounts that the user has with the institution system . The institution system may generate a financial plan based at least in part on the questionnaire.

The user computing device may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the financial planning engine and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a financial advice request . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to user and through the graphical user interface provide the user the ability to interact with and manipulate the financial advice recommendations and or financial plan provided by the institution system .

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the financial planning engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the financial planning engine . Those instructions may cause the financial planning engine to access one or more internal and one or more external data sources and respectively.

As mentioned above the financial planning engine may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of their financial advice recommendations and or financial plan can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

In an implementation the institution may be a financial services institution having a financial services website. On the website in a common space the user may be presented with financial advice recommendations and or a financial plan.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . A user computing device may allow a user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as one or more internal data sources for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating a questionnaire acquiring and aggregating user data analyzing user data generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At operation a questionnaire may be generated or retrieved from storage associated with the institution system. The questionnaire may request information from the user that may be analyzed and used to generate a financial plan comprising financial advice and or recommendations for example. Prior to providing the questionnaire to the user the questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with data that is known to the institution system about the user such as the user s name address and social security number at operation . This information may be retrieved from storage associated with the institution system.

At operation the questionnaire may be electronically provided to the user via the website or email for example. The user may then fill out the questionnaire responding to any questions or requests for information contained in the questionnaire and electronically provide the filled out questionnaire back to the institution system at operation . The user may provide the questionnaire via the website email or any other electronic means.

At operation the institution system retrieves the user s personal and financial information from various internal and external data sources. For example the user may maintain bank accounts credit cards loans and insurance with the institution system and this information may be retrieved from the institution system s storage. Additional account asset liability and other information may be maintained by one or more entities external to the institution system and this information may be retrieved as well. In an implementation as described further herein the user may provide the institution system with authorization and or access instructions to access the information from the external data sources.

At operation an analyzer and advice generator associated with the institution system may receive and analyze the information pertaining to the user that was obtained from the questionnaire as well as from the internal and external data sources. The analyzer and advice generator may be an application that receives the information analyzes the information and generates a financial plan that is tailored to the user in one or more of the areas of investment planning retirement planning tax planning estate planning and risk management for example. The financial plan with financial advice and recommendations may be electronically provided to the user via a website or email for example at operation .

In an implementation for a more accurate or complex financial plan a user may be prompted to enter additional data after the financial plan has been generated. is an operational flow of an implementation of a method of generating and providing revised financial advice. After generating a financial plan and perhaps presenting it to the user additional information such as goals prioritization of goals and clarifying questions may be requested from the user at operation . The request may be made by via a website email telephone or any other means. The request may request information along with an explanation as to what the information may be used for e.g. if you provide further information regarding your children and other family members further advice and recommendations may be made with respect to retirement planning and education planning . Alternatively the user may be requested to call a service representative or financial planner associated with the institution system and the service representative or financial planner could ask a series of questions or request information in various areas that would yield detailed information that would be beneficial for generating a financial plan.

The additional information may be received from the user at operation and the financial plan may be revised accordingly based on the received information at operation . At operation the revised financial plan may be provided electronically e.g. via a website or email to the user.

If however all of the data for the financial plan is not already in storage as determined at operation the financial planning engine checks its associated storage to determine whether the user has provided credentials to external sources e.g. private or third party websites or databases that would have the data at operation . If so then the external sources at accessed at operation to retrieve or otherwise acquire the data that was not already in storage to be used by the financial planning engine.

If the user has not provided credentials to access the external sources or the credentials have expired for example as determined at operation the system prompts the user to provide the credentials at operation . The user may then at operation provide the requested credentials or deny the request. Assuming the credentials are provided they may be stored at operation . If the user does not provide the credentials then processing may continue at operation for example.

At operation the financial planning engine retrieves the data from the external sources if credentials have been provided along with any other data from publicly available sources that may be desired. The data may be stored at operation .

At operation it is determined if additional data is desired for the analysis and generation of a financial plan where this data was either not in storage or not retrieved or acquired from the external sources. If so the user is prompted to manually enter this additional desired data which may be subsequently received at operation . Processing may continue as set forth above with respect to operation .

In accordance with these example techniques a user does not have to enter a substantial amount of information if any for the generation of a financial plan. Even if all relevant information cannot be aggregated the example techniques save the user time and reduce errors that may be introduced due to manual data entry. Additionally a large set of data from the external sources may be used in the generation of a financial plan and or the revision of an existing financial plan.

The institution system continuously monitors whether any of the recommendations that had been provided to the user are acted on by the user at operation . For example the institution system may check the internal and external data sources continuously or periodically e.g. hourly daily at a predetermined time and day of the week etc. to determine if any action has been taken by the user that is directed to the previously provided recommendations. In an implementation the institution system may contact the user via email or telephone for example and request information from the user regarding any action that the user may have taken pursuant to the financial plan.

In an implementation the institution system may provide a financial profile to the user who may update it as they take any action based on the financial plan. The financial profile may be stored in storage that is accessible to the institution system and the institution system may continuously or periodically monitor the financial profile to determine if any recommendations in the financial plan have been acted on. The institution system may send a request to the user from time to time via email or telephone for example requesting that the user update the financial profile.

If it is determined that a recommendation has been acted on the financial plan that had been previously generated and provided to the user may be revised at operation based on the implementation of the recommendation. The revised financial plan may be electronically provided to the user via a website or email for example at operation . Because the monitoring is continuous either in real time or periodically as determined by the institution system for example processing continues at operation .

The institution system continuously monitors the user data in the internal and external data sources at operation . For example the institution system may check the internal and external data sources continuously or periodically e.g. hourly daily at a predetermined time and day of the week etc. to determine if any personal or financial data pertaining to the user has been changed since the most recent financial plan had been generated and provided to the user. In an implementation the institution system may contact the user via email or telephone for example and request information from the user regarding any data pertaining to the user that may have changed that may impact the financial plan.

As described previously in an implementation the institution system may provide a financial profile to the user. The user may update the financial profile as their personal or financial information changes. The financial profile may be stored in storage that is accessible to the institution system. The institution system may monitor the financial profile to determine if any data that is pertinent to the financial plan may have changed. As with the implementation directed to recommendations described previously the institution system may send a request to the user from time to time via email or telephone for example requesting that the user update the financial profile.

If it is determined that data has changed the plan that had been previously generated and provided to the user is revised at operation based on the changed data. For example the user may have had a particular life event such as having a child reaching a certain age changing their marital status etc. The integration and aggregation engine may capture the data pertaining to this life event and the analyzer and advice generator may provide a recommendation in the financial plan that pertains to this life event e.g. recommend setting up an education savings plan for the child etc. . In this manner because the financial planning engine learns of the life events from the internal and or external data sources and not from the user directly the user may be provided with a plan for life events without having to advise the financial planning engine that the life events have occurred.

The revised financial plan may be electronically provided to the user via a website or email for example at operation . Because the monitoring is continuous either in real time or periodically as determined by the institution system for example processing continues at operation .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

