---

title: Architectural design for plan-driven procurement application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing plan-driven procurement. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Inbound Delivery Processing process component, a Site Logistics Processing process component, an Inventory Processing process component, a Purchase Request Processing process component, a Purchase Order Processing process component, a Purchasing Contract process component, a Supplier Invoice Processing process component, a Demand Forecast Processing process component, a Supply and Demand Matching process component, an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component, and a Logistics Execution Control process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386325&OS=08386325&RS=08386325
owner: SAP AG
number: 08386325
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for plan driven procurement.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a software application implementing plan driven procurement.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can be implemented as methods systems and apparatuses including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing plan driven procurement. The software application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces and multiple service operations each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Inbound Delivery Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inventory Processing process component a Material Inspection Processing process component a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component a Purchasing Contract process component a Supplier Invoice Processing process component a Demand Forecast Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component and a Logistics Execution Control process component.

In its various aspects the software architecture design can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatuses including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the plan driven procurement design includes a Strategic Sourcing deployment unit a Supply Chain Control deployment unit a Purchasing deployment unit a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit a Supplier Invoicing deployment unit a Due Item Management deployment unit a Payment deployment unit a Financial Accounting deployment unit and a Business Planning deployment unit .

As shown in the Strategic Sourcing deployment unit includes an RFQ Processing process component . The RFQ Processing process component handles requests for quotes and supplier quotes for strategic as well as operational negotiation purposes. A request for quotation RFQ is a description of materials and services that purchasers use to request responses from potential suppliers. Requests for Quotation can be one of a number of types including a request for price information a request for quote that may run over a certain period of time a request for proposal in complex purchasing situation or live auctions that may be performed over a short time frame. A quote is a response to a request for quotation in which a supplier offers to sell goods and services at a certain price.

The Supply Chain Control deployment unit includes a Demand Forecast Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component an External Procurement Trigger and Response process component and a Logistics Execution Control process component . The Demand Forecast Processing process component receives and processes demand forecasts and subsequent release of the forecasts to planned independent requirements. The Supply and Demand Matching process component can manage tasks such that sufficient material receipt elements are present to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account. The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component manages tasks for processing procurement planning orders and interfacing to purchasing from a supply planning perspective. The Logistics Execution Control process component creates controls and monitors supply chain execution activities for fulfillment of an order on a macro logistics level. For example the Logistics Execution Control process component can trigger site logistics activities and receives information about supply chain execution progress.

The Purchasing deployment unit includes a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchase Order Processing process component and a Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The Purchase Request Processing process component can handle creating changing and processing of purchase requests to locate appropriate external sources of supply. The Purchase Order Processing process component can create and maintain purchase orders and purchase order confirmations. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component can create and maintain purchasing contracts.

The Production and Site logistics Execution deployment unit includes a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inbound Delivery processing process component an Inventory Processing process component and a Material Inspection Processing process component . The Site Logistics Processing process component handles the preparation physical execution and confirmation of logistics processes within a site. Logistics processes which are based on site logistics process models include picking packing shipping receiving as well as value added services. The Inbound Delivery processing process component can handle and process inbound delivery requirements for received goods from a vendor. In some implementations the Inbound Delivery processing process component can combine all document based tasks for the inbound delivery process and enable communication with the originating document fulfillment the vendor and invoicing. The Inventory Processing process component handles inventory and records inventory changes. For example the Inventory Processing process component provides services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations. The Material Inspection Processing process component can handle processing of inventory and recording of inventory changes. For example the Material Inspection Processing process component provides services to maintain current stock content and structure of logistic units and allocations.

The Business Planning deployment unit includes at Demand Planning process component . The Demand Planning process component can handle processing to provide accurate and measurable estimates of future demand.

As shown in the Supplier Invoicing deployment unit includes a Supplier Invoice Processing process component that handles management and volume processing of supplier invoices e.g. exception handling and approving supplier invoices .

The Due Item Management deployment unit includes a Due Item Processing process component and a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Due Item Processing process component handles the collection management and monitoring of trade receivables or payables and corresponding sales tax or withholding tax. The Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component handles collection processing and reporting of receivables and payables according to foreign trade regulations that are required by the central banks to create the balance of payments of a country.

The Payment deployment unit includes a Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component processes and manages payments. In some implementations the Payment Processing process component can be responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and provide the primary input for liquidity management.

The Financial Accounting deployment unit includes an Accounting process component . The Accounting process component represents relevant business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis.

The foundation layer described below includes a Source of Supply Determination process component as shown in and a Pricing Engine process component as shown in . The Source of Supply Determination process component handles the maintenance of and access to sources of supply and quota arrangements for external and internal procurement processes. The Pricing Engine process component handles processing of price and tax calculation.

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include an Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier a Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component a Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component an External Tax Calculation process component and an Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component .

The Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component can handle invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services or processes quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms.

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component processes customers requests to seller for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component handles invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component and the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component may interact with the Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing Process component may send updates to a Payment Processing at Business Partner processing component which is used to handle at business partner payments. The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component may also be responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks aid provides the primary input for liquidity management. The Payment Processing Process component also receives messages from the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component . The message may include a bank statement for a bank account. The Payment Processing process component sends messages to the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The messages may include a Bank Payment Order that is a Payment Order which will be sent to a house bank. The Bank Payment Order may contain bank transfers as well direct debits.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component may receive messages from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used its input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called alter a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent call act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component includes a Purchase Request business object . The Purchase Request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in a specified quantity at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Request business object uses a Request RFQ Execution from Purchase Request to RFQ Processing outbound process agent to start execution of Request for Quote Processing process component . The outbound process agent invokes a Request RFQ Execution operation . The Request RFQ Execution operation is included in a Request for Quote Out interface . The Request RFQ Execution operation requests for the execution of a request for quote. The Request RFQ Execution operation generates an RFQ Execution Request message .

A Maintain RFQ Request operation receives the RFQ Execution Request message . The operation is included in a Request for Quote In interface . The operation creates an RFQ request from business documents that are involved in at bidding process or in a negotiation process. The Maintain RFQ Request operation uses a Maintain RFQ Request inbound process agent to create or update an RFQ Request business object . The RFQ Request business object represents a request to the purchasing department to prepare a request for quote.

The RFQ Request business object uses a Confirm RFQ Request outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm RFQ Request operation . The operation is included in a Request for Quote Out interface . The operation confirms the RFQ execution. The Confirm RFQ Request operation sends an RFQ Execution Confirmation message to the Purchase Request process component to confine RFQ execution. A Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Request for Quote In interface . The operation changes purchase requests based on RFQ execution. The Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution operation uses a Change Purchase Request based on RFQ Execution inbound process agent to update the references of the purchase request in the Purchase Request business object .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Payment business object a Product Tax Declaration business object and a Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables and receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Payment business object uses a Synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke one or more operations including a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation and a Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation can request payment information with a provisional reservation or money in payment processing. The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation can request payment information with a change of provisional reservation of money in payment processing. The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Cancellation operation can register a change of a provisional payment to the last transactional or saved state.

If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Request message . If the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . If the Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message .

The Due Payment business object also uses a Request Payment front Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment operation or a Request Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment operation sends a request for payment to the Payment Processing process component . This confirms a previously made provisional payment. The Request Payment Cancellation operation cancels at least one provisional requested or ordered payment. If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Request Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Request Payment from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . If the Request Payment operation is invoked a Payment Order Request message is generated. If the Request Payment Cancellation operation is invoked the operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message .

As shown in a Create Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Request message . The operation uses a synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to create change or cancel a payment order for a reservation request. The synchronous inbound process agent updates the Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. A payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders.

A synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation receives a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . The operation uses the synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation changes a reservation of payment and confirms the change to the caller.

A Change Payment Reservation operation receives the Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message . A Create Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Request message . A Cancel Payment Order operation receives the Payment Order Cancellation Request message . The operations and use a Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The Cancel Payment Order operation cancels a previously sent payment request by reference. The Create Payment Order operation creates a request for payment. The Change Payment Reservation operation changes a reservation of payment without confirmation to the caller. The operations and are included in a Payment Request In interface .

The Payment Order business object uses a Confirm Payment Request from Payment Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Payment Request operation . The operation confirms the execution of a payment in response to a payment request sent to the Payment Processing process component . The operation is included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Confirm Payment Request operation generates a Payment Order Confirmation message .

As shown in the Payment Order Confirmation message is received in a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation . The operation confirms the execution of a payment request or a payment request cancellation. The operation is included in a Payment Request In interface . The Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation uses a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Due Payment business object .

The Create Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation .

The Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation shown in sends a Payment Order Reservation Change Confirmation message to the Due Item Processing process component shown in . The message is a confirmation response received in the Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation .

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order to Accounting outbound process agent to inform Accounting Processing about the creation modification or cancellation of a purchase order. The outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The Notify of Purchase Order operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The operation generates a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message to notify the Accounting process component about the created changed or cancelled Purchase Order business object .

A Create Accounting Notification operation of the Accounting process component receives the Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface . The Create Accounting Notification operation receives an Order Accounting Notification from a Service Confirmation Processing process component a Service Contract Processing process component a Service Request Processing process component a Service Order Processing process component a Sales Order Processing process component and the Purchase Order Processing process component. The notification is to inform Accounting Processing about creation change or deletion of any kind of order business objects. The operation updates an Accounting Notification business object using a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent . In some implementations the Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The Logistics Execution Requisition business object represents a requisition to Logistics to control trigger and or monitor the execution of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The business object uses a Request Fulfillment from Logistics Execution Request to Inbound Delivery Processing outbound process agent to request fulfillment of an inbound delivery from the Inbound Delivery Processing process component . The outbound process agent invokes a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation . The operation is included in a fulfillment Out interface . The Request Delivery Fulfillment operation can create or update an inbound or outbound delivery request. The Request Delivery Fulfillment operation generates a Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message .

A Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation receives the Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation receives delivery fulfillment request from the Logistics Execution Control process component . The operation can update using a Maintain Inbound Delivery Request inbound process agent an Inbound Delivery Request business object . The Inbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a product recipient to receive a composition of goods.

The Inbound Delivery Request business object uses a Confirm Fulfillment of Inbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends delivery fulfillment confirmation to the Logistics Execution Control process component . The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message to the Logistics Execution Control process component .

A Change logistics Execution Requisition based on the Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation can update the Logistics Execution Control process component with fulfillment confirmation data received from an inbound or outbound delivery request. The Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on the Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation uses a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Order business object . The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. The Payment Order business object can be a collective instruction that includes several separate instructions.

The Payment Order business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Business Partner outbound process agent to create a payment advice to the business partner. The outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Payment operation to send data that can allow the assignment of payments to receivables or payables at the business partner. The Notify of Payment operation is included in an Outgoing Payment Advising Out interface . The Payment Processing process component sends information to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component using a Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template . The Outgoing Payment Advising Out sends information to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component using the Processing at Tenant Out communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Notify of Payment operation sends a Payment Advice Notification message and or a Form Payment Advice Notification message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component . The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component receives information from the Payment Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. While XI represents Exchange Infrastructure any similar or suitable third party or proprietary toll may be used to perform the functions provided by or describe in relation to XI.

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Invoicing Due from Purchase Order to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation can notify the Supplier Invoice Processing process component about an invoice due and or when a Purchase Order business object has been created changed or cancelled. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation sends an Invoicing Due Notification message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

The Invoicing Due Notification message is received by a Maintain Invoice Request operation . The operation can create or update a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component in order to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order for example without having to access other process components. The reference object can be used for checks against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry. The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The Maintain Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a request that is sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected or is to be created through evaluation settlement.

An update to the Supplier Invoice Request business object triggers a Notify of Invoiced Values from Supplier Invoice Request to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent . The outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Invoiced Values operation to notify the Purchase Order business object that at least parts of the order have already been invoiced. The Notify of Invoiced Values operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The operation sends a Purchase Order Values Notification message . The message is received by a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The operation can change the Purchase Order business object based on invoice values by adding the quantity and amount of a supplier invoice to the cumulated invoiced quantity and amount in a node Item Actual Values of a purchase order. The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation also adds the reference to the supplier invoice document to the purchase order. The Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values operation updates the Purchase Order business object using a Change Purchase Order based on Invoice Values inbound process agent .

As shown in the Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component sends an IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message to the Payment Processing process component . The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component sends information to the Payment Processing process component using an IT CBI Notify Of Bank Account Statement communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a bank statement. The IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message uses a mapping entity to transform the IT CBI based message type to a Bank Account Statement Notification message that can be received by a Create Bank Statement operation . For example the IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message can be in a format of the national electronic banking standard CBI Corporate Banking Interbancario established by the Italian Banking Association ABI and the major Italian IT banks used by the majority approximately 80 of domestic and foreign banks in Italy.

The Create Bank Statement operation is included in a Bank Statement Processing In interface . In one example the Create Bank Statement operation creates a bank statement in the Payment Processing process component . The operation uses a Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent to update a House Bank Statement business object . The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues within a period of time at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

An update in the Supplier Invoice business object e.g. when a supplier invoice is paid triggers a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Due Item Processing outbound process agent . The Notify of Supplier Invoice to Due Item Processing outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Invoice operation to notify the Due Item Processing process component about payments and taxes that are due based on a posted supplier invoice. Alternatively the process agent invokes a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation to notify the due item processing system about a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled. Both operations are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . If the Notify of Invoice operation is invoked then a Receivables Payables Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component . If the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked a Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component .

The messages and are received by the Due Item Processing process component . A Create Receivables Payables operation receives the Receivables Payables Notification message to create a trade or tax receivable or payable. A Cancel Receivables Payables operation receives the Receivables Payables Cancellation Notification message to cancel a trade tax receivable or tax payable. The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables In interface .

The operations and use a Maintain Trade and Tax Receivables Payables inbound process agent to update one or more of three business objects a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object a Tax Receivables Payables Register business object or a Due Clearing business object . The Trade Receivables Payables Register business object represents a register of the trade receivables and payables of a company from or to its business partners. The Tax Receivables Payables Register business object represents the register of tax receivables and payables of a company for delivered goods and rendered services between buyers and sellers consumption of goods transfer of goods and amounts withheld from payments to sellers. The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing.

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Incoming Check business object a Check Deposit business object the Payment Order business object the House Bank Statement business object a Payment Allocation business object a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object a Bill of Exchange Deposit business object a Cash Transfer business object and a Payment Advice business object . The Incoming Check business object represents a check issued by a business partner payable to the company. The Check Deposit business object represents a deposit of checks at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object represents a deposit of bills of exchange receivable at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Cash Transfer business object represents a company internal money transfer that can include the following payments from one house bank account to another house bank account transfer from one cash storage to another cash transfer from a cash storage to a house bank account cash deposit or from a house bank account to a cash storage cash withdrawal . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons. The Payment Order business object represents an order within a company to make a payment to a business partner at a specified time. For example a payment order can be a collective order that includes several individual orders. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

An update in one or more of the above business objects triggers the Payment Processing process component to update the Accounting Notification business object in the Accounting process component . An update in the Incoming Check business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke either a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Payment operation can notify accounting of cash receipts and cash disbursements. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation can notify accounting about the cancellation of cash receipts and cash disbursements. If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Incoming Check business object is saved then a Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Incoming Check business object is cancelled then a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component .

The Accounting process component includes a Payment Accounting Out interface to receive the messages and . The Payment Accounting Notification message is received by a Create Accounting Document operation . The Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is received by a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The operations can use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent the operational business transaction in a standardized form for business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

The Check Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component regarding check deposits. The Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation in a Payment Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is ready for transfer then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Payment Order business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component regarding a self initiated payment. The Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation in a Payment Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is final then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The House Bank Statement business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component concerning payments on bank accounts. For example these payments can be sent to the system via the House Bank Statement business object . The Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the House Bank Statement business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the House Bank Statement business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Payment Allocation business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component from the Payment Allocation business object . The Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Allocation business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Allocation business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component from the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object uses a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component from the Bill of Exchange Deposit business object . The Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Cash Transfer business object uses a Notify of Payment from Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Accounting process component from the Cash Transfer business object . The Notify of Payment Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Payment Advice business object uses a Notify of Payment from Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent to create a notification to the Accounting process component from the Payment Advice business object . The Notify of Payment from Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and Sales Order Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object and a Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. The Purchase Order Confirmation business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

An update in the Purchase Order business object triggers a Request Purchase Order to Supplier outbound process agent to request a purchase order at a supplier. The outbound process agent invokes either a Request Purchase Order Creation operation or a Request Purchase Order Change operation . The operations and are included in an Ordering Out interface .

The Request Purchase Order Creation operation can request a purchase order from a supplier. The Request Purchase Order Change operation can request a change of a purchase order that was formerly ordered at a supplier. In this example the operations send an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component sends information to Purchase Order Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner Out Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner Out Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component sends an Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message . The Interactive Form Purchase Order Request message uses a mapping entity to transform the interactive form based message type to a Purchase Order Confirmation message .

A Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation receives the Purchase Order Confirmation message . The operation is included in an Ordering In interface . The Ordering In interface receives information from the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component using a Processing at Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation can create a purchase order confirmation according to the confirmation partial confirmation or proposed changes sent from the seller to the buyer concerning the requested delivery of product to trigger the creation of a purchase order confirmation. The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation uses a Create Purchase Order Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order Confirmation business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier and Supplier Invoice Processing 

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Create Invoice based on Attachment operation . The operation is included in an Image Recognition Invoicing In interface . The operation can create an empty supplier invoice with an attachment of an invoice image according to legally binding claims or liabilities for delivered goods and rendered services. In this example the Create Invoice based on Attachment operation receives a Business Transaction Image Recognition Request message from the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The operation uses a Create Supplier Invoice based on Attachment inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object .

The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lover than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

As shown in the Inbound Delivery Processing process component includes a Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object . The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object represents a confirmation that a certain composition of goods has actually been received by the product recipient. The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object uses a Request Invoicing from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Supplier Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation can send an invoicing due notification to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation sends an Invoice Due Notification message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation receives the Invoicing Due Notification message . The operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface . The operation creates or updates a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order for example without having to access other process components. The reference object is used for checking against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry. The Maintain Invoice Request operation uses a Maintain Supplier Invoice Request inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a document that is sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected or is to be created through evaluation settlement.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Clearing business object the Due Payment business object the Product tax Declaration business object a Withholding Tax Declaration business object and the Tax Due Payment business object . Updates in the Due Clearing business object the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object the Withholding Tax Declaration business object and or the Tax Due Payment business object can trigger messages to be sent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

Specifically an update in the Due Clearing business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent . The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. The process agent sends notification for a clearing of trade receivables and or payables to accounting. The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if the due clearing is released. The process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the due clearing is cancelled.

The Notify of Payment operation can notify accounting of payments or clearings of trade and tax receivables or payables. The Notify of Payment operation sends a Payment Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation can notify accounting of payment or clearing cancellations for trade and tax receivables or payables. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation sends a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

An update in the Due Payment business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables. The outbound process agent sends notification to the Accounting process component for inward or outward trade receivables and or payables payments. The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if a VAT value added tax declaration is released. The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

An update in the Product Tax Declaration business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent . The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables or receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The outbound process agent sends notification to the Accounting process component for a payment of product tax receivables or payables. The Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if a VAT declaration is released. The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

An update in the Withholding Tax Declaration business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent . The Withholding Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of withholding tax payables of a company to a tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The outbound process agent sends notification to the Accounting process component for a payment of withholding tax receivables and or payables. The Notify of Payment from to Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation .

An update in the Tax Due Payment business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent . The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables. The outbound process agent sends notification to the Accounting process component of a payment of tax receivables and or payables. The Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation .

A Payment Accounting In interface in the Accounting process component includes a Create Accounting Document operation and a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation receives payment accounting notification from payment processing or the Due Item Processing process component . The Cancel Accounting Document operation handles the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Cancel Accounting Document operation receives a payment accounting cancellation request from payment processing or the Due Item Processing process component . Both operations and trigger a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to the Accounting process component by an operational component regarding a business transaction. For example the Accounting Notification business object can represent this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and can include the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components RFQ Processing and Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component includes a Request for Quote business object and a Supplier Quote business object . The Request for Quote business object represents a request from a buyer to a bidder to submit a quote for goods or services according to a set of specified criteria. The Supplier Quote business object represents a response to a quote request in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to requested criteria.

The RFQ Processing process component also includes a Request Quote Processing Out interface a Quote Processing in interface and a Quote Processing Out interface . The Request Quote Processing Out interface includes a Request Quote Creation operation a Notify of Request for Quote Change operation and a Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation . The Request Quote Creation operation requests the participation of the supplier in a bidding process. The Notify of Request for Quote Change operation notifies the supplier about changes to the request for quote. The Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation notifies the supplier about the cancellation of a request for quote. The RFQ Processing process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Request Quote Processing Out interface sends information to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Quote Processing In interface includes a Maintain Supplier Quote operation that creates or updates a supplier quote on the basis of the received customer quote which was sent in response to the invitation from the buyer to submit a quotation.

The Quote Processing Out interface includes a Request Quote Change operation and a Notify of Quote Award operation . The Request Quote Change operation requests the change of the customer quote. The Notify of Quote Award operation notifies the bidder about supplier quote items for which the quotation from the bidder has been awarded including extending the award or about a rejection if the quotation from the bidder is not successful. The Quote Processing Out interface receives information from the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component using a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Request for Quote business object uses a Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent when the Request for Quote business object is published re published or cancelled. The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent invokes the Request Quote Creation operation to send a Form RFQ Request message or an RFQ Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Request for Quote Change operation to send a Form RFQ Change Request message or an RFQ Change Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Request Quote Maintenance from Request for Quote to Supplier outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation to send an RFQ Cancellation Request message or a Form RFQ Cancellation Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

A Quote Notification message is received by a Maintain Supplier Quote operation that uses a Maintain Supplier Quote inbound process agent to create or update the Supplier Quote business object .

The Supplier Quote business object uses a Notify of Supplier Quote to Supplier outbound process agent to invoke the Request Quote Change operation when a supplier quote is submitted. The Request Quote Change operation sends an RFQ Change Request message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component . The Notify of Supplier Quote to Supplier outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Quote Award operation when a supplier quote is submitted. The Notify of Quote Award operation sends an RFQ Result Notification message or a Form RFQ Result Notification message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

The Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component receives information from the RFQ Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication from an external party. The Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component sends information to the RFQ Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner Out XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner Out XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication to an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing and External Procurement Trigger and Response 

As shown in the Purchase Order Processing process component includes the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time. A creation modification or cancellation of the Purchase Order business object triggers a Notify of Purchase Order to External Procurement Trigger and Response outbound process agent to inform the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component about the creation modifications or cancellation of the Purchase Order business object . The Notify of Purchase Order to External Procurement Trigger and Response outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Purchase Order operation in an Ordering Notification Out interface . The Notify of Purchase Order operation sends a Purchase Order Notification message to notify the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component .

The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes a Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation to receive the message . The Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order operation is included in an Ordering Notification In interface . The operation updates the planning relevant data of purchase order with information about new or changed purchase orders. A Maintain Planning View of Purchase Order inbound process agent is used to update a Planning View on Purchase Order business object . The Planning View of Purchase Order business object represents a planning view of materials dates quantities delivery conditions parties and or sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object represents an order to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account to fulfill a payment order. In some instances the house bank can be a bank located in France.

The Bank Payment Order business object uses a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment Order to House Bank outbound process agent to invoke a Request File based Payment Order operation . The Request File based Payment Order operation instructs a house bank using a file to make a bank transfer or a direct debit. The operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation generates a File based Collective Payment Order Request message . The File based Collective Payment Order Request message uses Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Collective Payment Order Request message is in a format that the house bank a bank located in France can understand. A collective payment order can be an instruction based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions e.g. bank transfers or direct debits . The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component receives information from the Payment Processing process component using a Payment Order Request communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from a third party about a payment order request.

As shown in the Pricing Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object . The Price and Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case. The Price and Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Price and Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The External Tax Calculation Out interface sends information to the External Tax Calculation process component using a Processing at Tenant In WSRM communication channel template .

The Pricing Engine process component also includes a Tax Calculation business object . The Tax Calculation business object represents a summarization of the determined and calculated tax elements of a business case. The Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation synchronous outbound process agent to invoke the Request Product Tax Calculation operation .

The Request Product Tax Calculation operation can request product tax calculations from an external tax calculation system. In this example the Request Product Tax Calculation operation sends an External Product Tax Calculation Request message . The External Product Tax Calculation Request message is received by the External Tax Calculation process component .

In this example the Request Product Tax Calculation operation receives an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message from the External Tax Calculation process component . The External Tax Calculation process component sends information to the Pricing Engine process component using a Processing at Tenant Out WSRM communication channel template .

Interactions Between Process Components External Procurement Trigger and Response and Purchase Order Processing 

The External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes the Planning View of Purchase Order business object . The Planning View of Purchase Order business object represents a planning view of materials dates quantities delivery conditions parties and or sources of supply of a purchase order that are relevant to planning. The Planning View of Purchase Order business object uses a Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values from Planning View of Purchase Order to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values operation in a Fulfillment Out interface . The outbound process agent can send Purchase Order Fulfillment data to purchasing when new inventories e.g. a planning view are posted.

The Notify of Purchase Order Delivery Values operation sends a Purchase Order Delivery Values Notification message to the Purchase Order Processing process component to notify purchasing of the fulfillment of a purchase order.

A Change Purchase Order based on Delivery values operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation can change the Purchase Order business object based on delivery values by adding the quantity of a confirmed inbound delivery to the cumulated delivered quantity in a node Item Actual Values of a purchase order. The operation can also add the reference to the confirmed inbound delivery document to the purchase order. In this example the Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation uses a Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

Interactions Between Process Components External Procurement Trigger and Response and Purchase Request Processing 

As shown in the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component includes a Purchase Requisition business object . The Purchase Requisition business object represents a requisition to purchasing for the external procurement of materials planned in supply and demand matching. A purchase requisition is derived from the procurement planning order and describes which materials are to be procured in what quantities and at what time.

The Purchase Requisition business object uses a Request Purchasing from Purchase Requisition to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent to send a new purchase requisition or changes of an existing purchase requisition to purchasing. The Request Purchasing from Purchase Requisition to Purchase Request Processing outbound process agent invokes a Request Purchasing operation in a Purchasing Out interface to request from a supply planner asking a buyer to procure products or services. The Request Purchasing operation sends a Purchase Request Request message to the Purchase Request Processing process component .

The Purchase Request Request message is received by a Maintain Purchase Request operation in a Purchasing In interface . The Maintain Purchase Request operation can create or update a request from a requester to a purchaser to procure products e.g. materials and or services . The operation can create or update the Purchase Request business object using a Maintain Purchase Request inbound process agent . The Purchase Request business object represents a request to the purchasing department to prepare a request for quote.

An update to the Purchase Request business object triggers a Confirm Purchase Request outbound process agent . The outbound process agent invokes a Confirm Purchase Request operation that is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation can confirm the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requesting business object. The operation sends a Purchase Request Confirmation message to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component .

A Change Purchase Requisition based on Purchase Request operation receives the message . The operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation can confirm to the requester the extent to which a purchase requisition has been fulfilled. In this example the Change Purchase Requisition based on Purchase Request operation updates the Purchase Request business object using a Change Purchase Requisition based on Purchase Request inbound process agent .

The Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Confirmation business object . The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time e.g. inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations or progress status changes .

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent . The Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation to send an inventory change accounting notification to the Accounting process component . Alternatively a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation can be invoked. The operation can request inventory change and activity provision cancellation. Both operations are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface .

If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked then an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Cancellation Request message is sent to the Accounting process component .

If the notification message is received then a Create Accounting Document operation is performed. The operation can receive and handle an inventory change accounting notification. If the cancellation message is received then a Cancel Accounting Document operation is performed to cancel requests received. The operation can receive an inventory change accounting cancellation request. The operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting In interface . Cancellations and updates can be sent by a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction.

The RFQ Processing process component includes the Supplier Quote business object . The Supplier Quote business object represents a response to a quote request in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to some requested criteria. An acceptance of the Supplier Quote business object triggers a Request Purchase Order from Supplier Quote to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent . The Request Purchase Order from Supplier Quote to Purchase Order Processing outbound process agent invokes a Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation . The operation is included in a Quote Award Notification Out interface . The Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation requests a purchase order based on the awarded respective winning supplier quote. The Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation sends a Supplier Quote Award Notification message to the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation to receive the Supplier Quote Award Notification message . The operation is included in a Quote Award Notification In interface . The Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation can create a purchase order based on the data contained in a winning supplier quote. For example if the supplier quote refers to a purchase request data from the purchase request items are added by the operation to complete the purchase order. The operation uses a Maintain Purchase Order based on Winning Quote inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Notify of Supplier Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to notify accounting of the existence of the supplier invoice. For example once the supplier invoice is posted to the system the outbound processing agent sends a notification to accounting stating the supplier invoice has been posted.

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes an Invoice Accounting Out interface . The interface includes a Notify of Invoice operation and a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Invoice operation can notify accounting about accounting relevant data from a posted supplier invoice. The Notify of Invoice operation sends an Invoice Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation can notify accounting about accounting relevant data from a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled. The operation sends an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message .

The Accounting process component includes an Invoice Accounting In interface . The Invoice Accounting In interface includes a Create Accounting Document operation to receive the Invoice Accounting Notification message . The operation can create an accounting document for the Supplier Invoice business object . For example the accounting document records payables receivables expenses and revenues for the Invoice in the Accounting process component . The operation uses a Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Invoice Accounting In interface also includes a Cancel Accounting Document operation to receive the Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operation uses the Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent to cancel a customer or supplier invoice. The Maintain Accounting Document based on Invoice inbound process agent updates the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor 

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object . The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object represents a group of related issues arising during a supplier invoice verification process. In some implementations these issues cause an exception to be bundled according to certain business criteria.

An update to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component can trigger a Request Resolution from Supplier Invoice Verification Exception to Processor outbound process agent . The Request Resolution from Supplier invoice Verification Exception to Processor outbound process agent invokes a Request Exception Resolution operation in an Exception Resolution Out interface . The operation request the clarification of a supplier invoice verification exception from an external party. The Request Exception Resolution operation sends a Form Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution Request form based message to the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier and Inbound Delivery Processing 

As shown in the Inbound Delivery Processing process component includes a Delivery Notification In interface . The Delivery Notification In interface includes a Maintain Inbound Delivery operation . The operation can receive dispatched delivery notification from for example an Outbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component .

The Maintain Inbound Delivery operation receives a Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message from the Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component . The Maintain Inbound Delivery operation uses a Maintain Inbound Delivery inbound process agent to update an Inbound Delivery business object . The Inbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that is received by a product recipient.

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes an Inventory business object . The Inventory business object represents a quantity of all the materials in a location including the material reservations at the location. For example quantities of materials are physically grouped using Identified Logistic Units or Logistic Units.

The Inventory business object uses a Notify of Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent . The Notify of Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent invokes a Notify Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation in an Inventory Reconciliation Out interface . For example the operation notifies the Supply and Demand Matching process component about the reconciliation of inventory quantities aggregated on a material and supply planning area level.

The Notify Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation sends a Planning View of Inventory Reconciliation Notification message to the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

A Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation receives the Planning View of Inventory Reconciliation Notification message . The operation is included in an Inventory Reconciliation in interface . For example the Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation carries out an absolute quantity update of a stock item disaggregated actual inventory quantity information that is mapped for a material and certain usability in a supply planning area in a certain inventory managed location and or for certain identified stock in t the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

The Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation inbound process agent to update a Planning View of Inventory business object . The Planning View of Inventory business object represents a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area.

As shown in the Demand Planning process component includes a Demand Plan business object . The Demand Plan business object represents a collection of quantitative forecasts of the product demands within a planning period. These forecasts are generated as required for example at product brand or customer group level.

The Demand Plan business object uses a Notify of Forecast from Demand Planning to Demand Forecast Processing outbound process agent . The Notify of Forecast from Demand Planning to Demand Forecast Processing outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Forecast operation in a Demand Forecasting Out interface . For example the operation sends current and deleted forecasts to the Demand Forecast Processing process component .

The Notify of Forecast operation sends a Demand Forecast Notification message to the Demand Forecast Processing process component . The Demand Forecast Processing process component includes a Maintain Demand Forecast operation in the Demand Forecasting In interface . The Maintain Demand Forecast operation receives the Demand Forecast Notification message . The Maintain Demand Forecast operation creates updates and deletes the demand forecast object with the given forecast data. In this example the Maintain Demand Forecast operation uses a Maintain Demand Forecast inbound process agent to update a Demand Forecast business object . The Demand Forecast business object represents a forecast of a material demand in a particular supply planning area.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Outgoing Check business object . The Outgoing Check business object represents a check issued by a company payable to a business partner to fulfill a payment order. The Outgoing Check business object uses an Issue Check From Outgoing Check to Business Partner outbound process agent . The Issue Check From Outgoing Check to Business Partner outbound process agent invokes an Issue Check operation in a Check Issuing Output Out interface . For example the operation sends current and deleted forecasts to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component to request an issuance of a check. In this example the Issue Check operation sends a Form Check Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bill of Exchange Payable business object . The Bill of Exchange Payable business object represents a bill of exchange for an Outgoing payment. The Bill of Exchange Payable business object uses an Issue Bill Of Exchange Payable to Business Partner outbound process agent . The Issue Bill Of Exchange Payable to Business Partner outbound process agent invokes an Issue Bill of Exchange operation in a Bill of Exchange Payable Issuing Output Out interface . For example the operation requests the issuing of a bill of exchange. The Issue Bill of Exchange operation sends a Form Bill of Exchange Payable Issue Request message to the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Task business object . The Site Logistics Processing business object represents a task for executing a logistics operation or activity within a site. For example the Site Logistics Task business object represents a piece of work to be performed by a person or an automated system.

The Site Logistics Task business object uses a Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output outbound process agent to request printing of a site logistics task list. The Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output outbound process agent invokes a Request Site Logistics Task Execution operation in a Site Logistics Task Output Out interface . For example the operation requests the printing of site logistics task instructions. The Request Site Logistics Task Execution operation sends a Form Site Logistics Task Execution Request message .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component includes the Site Logistic Confirmation business object . The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time e.g. inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations or progress status changes .

The Site Logistic Confirmation business object uses a Notify Of Inventory Change From Site Logistic Confirmation To Supply And Demand Matching outbound process agent . The Notify Of Inventory Change From Site Logistic Confirmation To Supply And Demand Matching outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Change operation in a Inventory Changing Out interface . For example the operation sends inventory change planning notifications to the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

In this example the Notify of Inventory Change operation sends a Logistics Confirmation Inventory Change Notification message to the Supply and Demand Matching process component . The Supply and Demand Matching process component includes a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation operation in a Inventory Changing In interface . For example the operation maintains planning view of inventory based on logistics confirmation for a relative quantity change to an inventory item disaggregated actual inventory quantity information that is mapped for a material and certain usability in a supply planning area in a certain inventory managed location and for certain identified stock in the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

In this example the Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation operation receives the Logistics Confirmation Inventory Change Notification message and uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Logistics Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Planning View of inventory business object . The Planning View of Inventory business object represents a view of a material stock aggregated at the level of the supply planning area.

The Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Request business object . The Site Logistics Request business object represents an internal request for site logistics to prepare and perform within a certain time period an outbound inbound or internal site logistics process.

The Site Logistics Request business object uses a Notify of Site Logistics Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent to notify the Logistics Execution Control process component of the creation of a site logistics request or the update of a site logistics request. The outbound process agent can also notify the Logistics Execution Control process component of the reconciliation of a site logistics. The Notify of Site Logistics Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent invokes a Notify Planning of Site Logistics operation and or a Notify of Site Logistics Reconciliation operation . Both operations and are included in a Site Logistics Notification Out interface . The Notify Planning of Site Logistics operation can notify the Logistics Execution Control process component about the creation of a new site logistics request and to create a site logistics requisition or update relevant inventory changes in an existing site logistics requisition. The Notify of Site Logistics Reconciliation operation can notify the planning system of a reconciliation of a site logistics request.

In this example the Notify Planning of Site Logistics operation and the Notify of Site Logistics Reconciliation operation send a Site Logistics Request And Inventory Change Notification message and a Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation Notification message respectively to the Logistics Execution Control process component .

The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation and a Maintain based on Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation operation to receive the messages and . Both operations and are included in a Site Logistics Notification In Interface . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation can create or update a site logistics requisition with relevant inventory changes from a site logistics request. The Maintain based on Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation operation can reconcile a site logistics requisition with its related site logistics request.

In this example the Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation receives the Site Logistics Request and Inventory Change Notification message . The Maintain Site Logistics Requisition operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent to update a Site Logistics Requisition business object . For example the inbound process agent performs the creation or updating of a site logistics requisition. The inbound process agent can also perform the reconciliation of a site logistics requisition. In this example the Maintain based on Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation operation receives the Site Logistics Request Notification Reconciliation Notification message . The operation uses the Maintain Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Notification inbound process agent to update the Site Logistics Requisition business object . The Site Logistics Requisition business object represents a request to the Logistics Execution to execute a site logistics process for a certain quantity of material by a certain time.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes the Supplier Invoice business object . The Supplier Invoice business object represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier usually issues a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and refunds the money to the company. For invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods.

The Supplier Invoice business object uses a Request Evaluated Receipt Settlement ERS Invoice to Supplier outbound process agent . The Request ERS Invoice to Supplier outbound process agent invokes a Request Evaluation Receipt Settlement Invoice operation in an Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out interface . For examples the operation informs the seller party about a supplier invoice created by the buyer party using the credit memo procedure e.g. an evaluated receipt settlement . The Supplier Invoice Processing process component sends information to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Evaluated Receipt Settlement Invoicing Out interface sends information to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Request Evaluation Receipt Settlement Invoice operation can send an Invoice Request message and or a Form Invoice Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component receives information from the Supplier Invoice Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Supplier Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice business object that represents a company s obligation to pay a supplier for delivered goods and services. For example if the company returns goods or complains about services the supplier call issue a credit memo for an amount equal to or lower than the original invoice and can refund the money to the company. For example for invoiced goods that require a duty a customs duty invoice can be submitted by the customs authority stating a company s obligation to pay tax on the import or export of goods. A Notify Supplier of Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound process agent uses a Notify of Invoice operation to notify the Balance Of Foreign Payment Management process component about the foreign receivables payables of the supplier invoice. Alternatively a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation can be used to notify the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component about the cancellation of a previously sent notification for foreign receivables payables of the supplier invoice. Both operations and are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message that can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message that can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component .

The messages and are received by a Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation and a Cancel Foreign Receivable Playable operation respectively which are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface . The Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message is received by the Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation which creates a foreign receivable or payable. The Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message is received by the Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation which cancels a foreign receivable or payable. Operations and use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to create change or cancel a foreign receivable or payable in a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or payable to a non resident business partner.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

