---

title: Method and system for real-time accessing of digital data stored on a remote terminal
abstract: The present invention relates to a system and method of providing at least one digital content item substantially in real-time from at least one user's terminal to another user's terminal over a data network, said method comprises: (a) indexing at least one digital content item provided from at least one user's terminal over a data network, giving rise to an items index; (b) receiving a request to provide a digital content item to user's terminal over said data network; (c) conducting a search for the requested digital content item by means of said items index; and (d) if said requested digital content item is found within said items index, providing said requested digital content item from said at least one user's terminal to another user's terminal over said data network by streaming said digital content item substantially in real-time to said another user's terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07882259&OS=07882259&RS=07882259
owner: Mecanto Ltd.
number: 07882259
owner_city: Kibbutz Sa'ar
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20080415
---
The present invention relates to digital data sharing. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and system for real time accessing of digital data stored on provided from a remote terminal over a data network such as the Internet.

In the last decade the WWW World Wide Web has expanded dramatically. More and more people around the world connect to the Internet and have thus become part of the worldwide computer network. Nowadays most data songs video films photos documents and the like is usually organized and stored in digital file formats on home personal computers. Thus when at home the users can easily access such data. However when outside the home for example at work or while traveling away from home locations accessing such digital data becomes significantly complicated. The user wishing to remotely access a file e.g. a song stored on his home computer has to first install on his remote terminal a dedicated program such as pcAnywhere program of Symantec Corporation located in United States that enables him to connect to his said home computer. Furthermore installing such a program on work terminals or on shared terminals in public places e.g. Internet caf is usually forbidden due to various reasons such as security unauthorized storage usage etc. In addition when the user connects to his home computer after installing such a program he has to fully download and store the downloaded file e.g. a song within his remote terminal e.g. at work or in a public place before starting to play it and this is also usually forbidden. Finally only after the song is downloaded and stored the user can start listening to it.

The problem of accessing digital data that is provided from remote terminals has been recognized in the prior art and various applications have been developed to provide a solution. According to the prior art US 2005 0203893 for example is directed to a program for accessing information records on a computer the program being adapted for operating on the computer and comprising an indexer adapted to build an index of information records stored in at least two information systems present on the computer wherein an information system provides access to information records using at least an interface such as a user interface an application programming interface or a procedure call interface an agent adapted to receive requests from a terminal remote from the computer and to serve said requests using said index. A person is thus able to gain access to his or her own information stored on his or her personal computer at home or at work using for instance another computer.

WO 01 47248 discloses a remote playback system that provides playback or another type of controlled delivery of an information signal available from a first device in response to one or more commands received from a second device in situations in which the second device is in a location remote from the first device. The server receives control commands from the second device and delivers the information signal over the network connection from the first device to the second device in response to the commands.

US 2006 0051055 presents a content remote watching system a PVR Personal Video Recorder owned by a user at home a server operated or administrated by a carrier and a mobile phone carried by the user which are all accommodated in a network. In this system the user can access a Web site operated or administrated on the server and request the reproduction of the content recorded on the PVR. The PVR transmits data to the mobile phone in accordance with an instruction from the server. In the mobile phone the data is reproduced and is watched by the user.

The present invention has many advantages over the prior art. For example the present invention enables streaming of digital data substantially in real time from one user s terminal to another.

Another advantage of the present invention is providing a method and system that enables streaming of digital data between various types of users terminals over a data network such as personal computers laptops mobile devices cellular phones PDAs Personal Digital Assistants etc. and the like.

A further advantage of the present invention is providing a method and system for streaming digital data substantially in real time over a data network wherein the terminal of a user from which the data is streamed can stay off line if said data has been previously streamed over said data network.

Still a further advantage of the present invention is providing a method and system for streaming digital data substantially in real time over a data network which is user friendly.

The present invention relates to a method and system for real time accessing of digital data stored on provided from a remote terminal over a data network such as the Internet.

The server is capable of providing a digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal by streaming it to said another user s terminal said server comprises means configured to 

According to an embodiment of the present invention the digital content item is streamed from the at least one user s terminal to said server.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the digital content item is streamed from said server to another user s terminal.

The system is configured to provide a digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network said system comprises 

According to an embodiment of the present invention system is configured to stream a digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network upon receiving a request from the at least one user to remotely access said digital content item without uploading said content item onto said another user s terminal.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the streaming from the one user s terminal to another user s terminal is conducted via a server.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the server is configured by means of at least one of the following 

According to still another embodiment of the present invention the at least one digital content item is cached within the server.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention the cached digital content item is streamed from the server to the at least one user s terminal.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention the at least one digital content item is uploaded to the server prior to streaming it to the one or more users terminals.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention a software component is installed on the user s terminal for indexing one or more content items provided from said user s terminal giving rise to the items index.

According to a further embodiment of the present invention the items index is provided to the server.

According to still a further embodiment of the present invention the items index from users terminals is unified within the server giving rise to an overall items index.

According to still a further embodiment of the present invention the user searches within the items index or within the overall items index looking for a particular content item which he wishes to remotely access.

According to still a further embodiment of the present invention streaming the digital content item is controlled by means of the server.

According to still a further embodiment of the present invention the streaming of the digital content item is controlled by means of the software component.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the user registers within a Web site for enabling a remote access from his at least one user s terminal or for remotely accessing the digital content item from said at least one user s terminal.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the user remotely accesses the content item for a predefined period of time.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention the user that remotely accesses the content item makes a payment for accessing said content item.

According to still another embodiment of the present invention the metadata of each content item is indicated within the items index.

The method of providing at least one digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network said method comprises 

The method relates to streaming a digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network upon receiving a request from the at least one user to remotely access said digital content item without uploading said content item onto said another user s terminal.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises surfing to a predetermined Web site for searching for the particular content item.

The present invention also relates to a program storage device readable by machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform a method of providing at least one digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network said method comprises 

The present invention further relates to a program storage device readable by machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform a method of streaming a digital content item substantially in real time from at least one user s terminal to another user s terminal over a data network upon receiving a request from the user to remotely access said digital content item without uploading said content item onto said another user s terminal.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods systems procedures components circuits and the like have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Hereinafter whenever the term content item or item is mentioned it should be noted that it refers to any digital data such as a digital file a portion of a digital file software code etc. In addition wherein the term real time is mentioned it can be interpreted as substantially real time near real time and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present invention for remotely accessing digital content items stored on a Web terminal and or providing an access to such content items from said Web terminal a user of said Web terminal registers within a predefined Web site over data network . Then the user downloads from said Web site a software component to be installed on his network terminal e.g. personal computer cellular phone . Software component determines digital content items stored on or to be provided from said personal computer which are authorized by the user of said personal computer for being accessed from other one or more remote terminals. For that the user can store such content items within a predefined folder that is recognized by software component e.g. a folder named as Sharing .

According to an embodiment of the present invention software component of each terminal indexes digital content items stored within or to be provided from said each terminal and then provides the items index to server . In addition when a new content item is uploaded to the terminal corresponding software component can substantially immediately update the items index of said terminal. Also the items index of each terminal can be updated for example once a day twice a day etc. The indexes of content items from all users terminals can be unified giving rise to an overall items index. Such overall items index can also be stored within server . Thus a user wishing to access a particular content item by registering and logging in a predefined Web site that can be hosted by server can see which items can be provided from each Web terminal over data network . The user can further search by means of said overall items index for a specific content item that he wishes to access. He can either search by means of the items index of each user s terminal and or by means of the overall items index of all users terminals connected to said data network .

It should be noted that according to an embodiment of the present invention a user can search and remotely access digital content items provided from all users terminals over data network which are registered within the predefined Web site that can be hosted by server . According to another embodiment of the present invention the user can remotely access digital content items stored on or provided from his remote Web terminals for example when at work the user can remotely access content items stored on his home computer s from his cellular phone .

According to an embodiment of the present invention software component enables streaming the requested digital content item from the terminal on which it is installed to another user s terminal. It should be noted that streaming of the content items can be conducted via server . When a user requests to remotely access a particular content item from his user s terminal e.g. cellular phone server communicates with a corresponding terminal that stores such an item e.g. home personal computer and interconnects between said terminals. After that software component installed on said personal computer starts streaming the requested content item to said cellular phone . The cellular phone user can start using e.g. listening watching playing reading and the like the content of the remotely accessed content item substantially in real time without the need to download and store it on his terminal. For example if the remotely accessed content item is a song then the cellular phone user can start listening to the song substantially in real time if the remotely accessed content item is a video clip then the cellular phone user can start watching it substantially in real time. Further server can cache the content item for later usage. Such content item caching can occur while the item e.g. a digital file is streamed from one user s terminal to another. According to another embodiment of the present invention content items can be uploaded from a user s terminal to server prior to streaming them to one or more user s terminals. Thus when a user wishes to remotely access a content item stored on a remote user s terminal while said content item is already cached stored by server then such an item is provided to him directly from the cache memory means of server and said remote user s terminal can stay offline.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the content item can be remotely accessed for a predefined sum of money e.g. 1 per minute 10 per day etc. Such a price can be set for example by a provider of server and or by a provider of software component for enabling a user to remotely access one or more desired content items e.g. songs movies photos textual data etc. . When a user remotely accesses a content item stored on his other terminal at a remote location e.g. at home then he can pay only to the above provider s for using such service. On the other hand when a user remotely accesses a content item stored on or provided from the terminal of another user then an additional payment may be requested by said another user. According to another embodiment of the present invention the content item can be remotely accessed for a fixed price for example 100 for an unlimited period of time. In addition the remote access cost can be set also according to the quality of the content item the file size of said content item and corresponding server storage space memory means to be used for caching said content item etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention instead of receiving a payment a user that provides a remote access to a content item can receive credit points for enabling another user to access such content item. For example if accessing the content item costs 10 then said user that provides the remote access can receive 10 credit points instead of 10 for example one credit point per 1 . After that he can access another content item from another user by using the accumulated credit points . The credit points can be provided to each user according to various parameters such as an access period of time type of the content item e.g. song movie to be accessed category or genre of said content item the quality of said content item the file size of said content item and corresponding server storage space to be used for caching said content item etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention software component installed within each user s terminal enables each user to search the overall items index of all content items stored on the registered users terminals for a particular content item that he wishes to remotely access without the need to surf to the predefined Web site. For conducting such a search software component can provide a corresponding User Interface on the terminal of said each user.

According to a further embodiment of the present invention if more than one user s terminal stores a content item which is requested to be remotely accessed by another user then one or more parameters are analyzed for determining from which user this item should be accessed. For example such parameters can be the bandwidth of each user s network connection a type of a Web terminal e.g. laptop mobile device personal computer etc. reliability of each user that can be for example determined statistically based on the previous accessing of one or more content items from said each user geographic proximity between the user that provides an access to said content item and the user that remotely accesses said content item payment that is requested by users for providing an access to said content item etc.

It should be noted that according to an embodiment of the present invention the content item can be any digital content item related to any contents such as a song video film photo picture audio game software application or any other.

In addition it should be noted that according to an embodiment of the present invention software component is installed only on users terminals from which the content items are provided. According to another embodiment of the present invention the user that remotely accesses said content item is also required to install such a software component on his Web terminal e.g. on cellular phones . The installed software components provide to users appropriate User Interfaces for enabling an access thereby accessing the remotely stored content items.

Further it should be noted that according to an embodiment of the present invention data network can be any network such as the Internet wireless wired cellular satellite LAN Local Area Network Extranet P2P or any other network.

According to an embodiment of the present invention software component installed on one user s terminal enables streaming the requested digital content item from said user s terminal to one or more other terminals via server via Streaming Control server . When a user requests to remotely access a particular content item from his user s terminal e.g. cellular phone server communicates with a corresponding terminal that stores such an item e.g. personal computer and interconnects between said cellular phone and personal computer . After that software component installed on said personal computer starts streaming the requested particular content item to said cellular phone . The cellular phone user can start using e.g. listening watching playing reading and the like its content substantially in real time without the need to store it on his terminal. For example if the remotely accessed content item is a song then the user can start listening to the song in real time if the remotely accessed content item is a video clip then the user can start watching it in real time. Further the content item can be cached and stored within Storage server for later usage. Such caching can occur while the content to Storage server item e.g. a file is streamed from one user s terminal to another. According to another embodiment of the present invention content items can be uploaded from user s terminal prior to streaming them to one or more other terminals. Thus when a user wishes to remotely access a content item from another user while said content item is already cached stored by Storage server then such an item is provided to him directly from the cache of Storage server and the terminal from which it is originally provided can stay offline.

According to an embodiment of the present invention server controls remote accessing of a digital content item from one user s terminal or from the cache of said server to another terminal. According to another embodiment of the present invention software component installed within user s terminal from which a digital content item is provided and or within user s terminal from which said content item is remotely accessed controls remote accessing of said digital content item. Thus the control can be performed either by means of server and or by means of software component s .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the content item can be remotely accessed for a predefined sum of money e.g. 1 per minute 10 per day etc. Such price can be set for example by a provider of server and or by a provider of software component for enabling user to remotely access one or more desired content items e.g. songs movies photos textual data etc. . When a user remotely accesses a content item stored on his other terminal at a remote location e.g. at home then he can pay only to said provider s for using such service. On the other hand when a user remotely accesses a content item stored on or provided from the terminal of another user then an additional payment may be requested by said another user. According to another embodiment of the present invention the content item can be remotely accessed for a fixed sum of money for example 100 for an unlimited period of time.

Further it should be noted that Web server Data Streaming server and Storage server can be physically located on different remote servers.

In addition according to an embodiment of the present invention when receiving a request from a user to borrow a content item it is checked whether such content item is already cached by means of Storage server and is stored within it. Such check for example can be performed by comparing the file size and file type of the requested content item with the same of the content items stored within said Storage server . If it is determined that such content item is already stored within said Storage server then it can be provided to a borrower directly from said Storage server without uploading it from lender s Web terminal.

According to an embodiment of the present invention each content item to be remotely accessed can be indexed according to various parameters metadata such as a category genre name file extension cost for accessing said each content item and the like. Thus for example when a user surfs to a predefined Web site for remotely accessing a particular content item stored on another Web terminal he is able to search for such content item by means of the items index within a corresponding category or genre to which said particular content item is related.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the overall items index can be edited reorganized ranked e.g. creating a favorites songs or movies playlist and the like by means of server provider or by any other authorized party. Further each user whose items index was conveyed to said server from his Web terminal can edit his said items index e.g. by surfing to a predefined Web site and can edit other items indexes within said server according to predefined authorizations.

According to an embodiment of the present invention each content item to be remotely accessed can be indexed according to various parameters metadata such as a category genre name file extension cost for accessing said each content item and the like. Thus for example when a user wishes to remotely access a particular content item he surfs to a predefined Web site and searches by means of items index provided by said Web site for such content item within a corresponding category or genre to which said particular content item is related.

It should be noted that according to another embodiment of the present invention the user can search and remotely access only content items which are stored on his remote Web terminal e.g. his home computer . Thus sending the request for accessing the particular content item is not required.

After that at step software component installed within the Web terminal e.g. personal computer which stores the requested content item enables streaming of said content item from said personal computer to another Web terminal which requested an access to said content item e.g. to cellular phone . It should be noted that the content item can be streamed to cellular phone via server or directly from said personal computer to cellular phone . Thus according to an embodiment of the present invention the user of cellular phone starts using listening playing watching and the like the content of the requested content item e.g. song video film game etc. substantially in real time.

According to a further embodiment of the present invention system can function without server by communicating from one user s terminal to another by means of software component s installed on said users terminals.

According to a still further embodiment of the present invention the user after playing the content item e.g. watching a video film that was streamed to his Web terminal can play back said content item again upon the need.

It should be noted that according to an embodiment of the present invention a program storage device readable by machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine is configured to perform methods of the present invention according to .

While some embodiments of the invention have been described by way of illustration it will be apparent that the invention can be put into practice with many modifications variations and adaptations and with the use of numerous equivalents or alternative solutions that are within the scope of persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention or exceeding the scope of the claims.

