---

title: High temperature electrochemical characterization of molten metal corrosion
abstract: A system and method for the high temperature in-situ determination of corrosion characteristics of a molten metal on an alloy under study is provided which takes place within an insulated furnace. A graphite crucible provided in the furnace contains an electrolyte formed from a molten salt of a metal halide. A reference electrode formed from the same metal as the electrolyte is immersed in the electrolyte solution in the graphite crucible. A beta-alumina crucible containing a molten metal is also provided within the furnace and preferably within the graphite crucible. A measuring electrode formed from the alloy under study is immersed in the molten metal. Standard electrochemical techniques are used to measure and analyze the electrochemical effects of corrosion of the molten metal on the alloy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08173007&OS=08173007&RS=08173007
owner: West Virginia University
number: 08173007
owner_city: Morgantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080529
---
This application claims priority to pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 932 098 filed on May 29 2007. That application is incorporated by reference as if fully rewritten herein.

Portions of this invention were made with Government support under Contract No. USDOE DE FC36 04GO14038. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to a system and method for investigating the corrosion characteristics of molten metal on an alloy in general and the mechanisms of corrosion attack and dross build up in molten Zn Al systems in particular.

The coating of steel with protective metals such as zinc or aluminum is an economical means of providing corrosion resistance to various grades of steel. Hot dipping of steel is one of the most economical processes for mass production of coated steels and has increased dramatically over the pasta. As a result of this increased demands the need for greater manufacturing efficiency in the galvanizing process has also gained prominence. Numerous projects have investigated the molten metal corrosion aspects of materials utilized for the submerged pot rolls and other hardware of continuous sheet galvanizing operations. The degradation and frequent failure of these structures results in significant production downtime and leads to high maintenance costs due to extensive repair and replacement.

The corrosion of submerged hardware materials by reacting with molten zinc aluminum alloy have been studied in the past by analyzing weight loss and dimensional changes. Based on this analysis an average corrosion rate is calculated. However the instantaneous corrosion rate of materials attacked by the molten metal has not been analyzed.

Electrochemistry based measurements aye powerful tools for studying the corrosion behaviors of materials in a service environment. Electrochemistry measurements using water based solutions acids bases and other chemicals acting as electrolytes at or near room temperature are well known. By analyzing the linear Tafel zone that is one of results of these measurements the corrosion current density can be calculated and the corrosion rate can be deduced. Conventionally a variety of electrochemical methods can be used to explore electrochemical reactions at the interface between the metal and an electrolyte solution. However those methods are limited by the selection of working temperature usually at or near room temperature approximately 25 Centigrade C as well as the electrolyte candidates usually all types of water solutions.

The use of high temperature sensors which utilize electromotive force EMF measurements to detect the concentration of a specific component in a certain type of molten metal has been reported. For example an aluminum sensor that detects the aluminum content in a zinc aluminum bath can use a KCl NaCl liquid operating at about 460 C. as the electrolyte or in a subsequent improvement the eutectic mixture of MgCl NaCl KCl in a liquid state as a molten salt with the addition of 2 5 mol AlCl in liquid state operating at about 460 C. Using the same principle an aluminum sensor has been developed using a mixture of NaCl AlCl liquid saturated with NaCl solid as the electrolyte operating at about 460 C. However such sensors have a disposable and limited life because the reaction of AlClwith moisture or the evaporation of AlClduring use. In addition the current design of aluminum sensors requires a beta alumina solid electrolyte tube to be inserted into the NaCl AlCl liquid saturated with NaCl solid electrolyte to prevent diffusion of ZnCl liquid to the reference electrode. This requirement complicates the sensor design since an outer tube is required to contain the NaCl AlCl liquid saturated with NaCl solid electrolyte making it practically impossible to contain sufficient molten salt electrolyte to run the sensor for a long time. Moreover given the large volume required for the aluminum sensor space restrictions limit the amount of the molten chloride electrolyte that can be used in the sensor. Therefore current high temperature sensors are not able to carry out the electrochemical tests such as polarization and AC impedance performances.

There is a need for a system and method to study the in situ behavior of molten metal instant corrosion rates and interfacial performance.

A system and method of high temperature electrochemical characterization is provided which enables the study of molten metal corrosion of an alloy at high temperatures such as those in the range of 450 C. to 480 C. An alloy sample which is immersed in and attacked by the liquid metal melt is used as a working or measuring electrode. A pure form of a particular metal component is used as an auxiliary electrode or counter electrode. The reference electrode or standard electrode is the pure metal component the selection of which depends on the working electrode. In a two electrode system the reference electrode works also as the auxiliary electrode coupled with the working electrode. The reference electrode is insulated by a ceramic sleeve having a micro pinhole provided therein. This pinhole exposes the electrode to the electrolyte through capillary action.

The electrolyte comprises two types of stable high temperature ionic conductors molten salt and solid alumina. A mixture of molten salt of an alkali halide such as NaCl and or an alkaline earth halide such as MgCl together with a halide of the particular metal component such as AlCl is used as the active electrolyte to carry the charges and convert a chemical potential change of the particular metal into a chemical potential change of the alkali or alkaline earth metal. The active substance meets the requirements for a concentration cell through which the chemical potential of the particular metal component is experimentally detectable when the system equilibrium is built up between a solid phase and a liquid phase.

Another stable high temperature ionic conductor alumina is also applied to prevent the diffusion of molten metal into contacting the reference electrode and therefore avoid the cell contamination. Pure tungsten is used as the electron leads which does not react with any element in the experimental system at temperatures as high as 480 C. The reference electrode and the working electrode an alloy sample immersed in the metal melts are held by a alumina container. The counter electrode is immersed inside the molten salt electrolyte outside the alumina container but within a graphite crucible. A furnace having a heating system is connected with a vacuum pump and an argon gas purge tube to prevent oxidation. The electrode feed through for electronic signal input output is installed by press fittings on top of the furnace. A control circuit is regulated for generating signals from electrochemical facilities and receiving detection signals from the tested cell. An interface potentiostat galvanostat connected with an impedance gain phase analyzer is used for signaling and data recording. The performance of the concentration cell is mainly determined by the operational temperature sample dipping duration corrosion time in the molten metal bath and the corrosion reaction rate of the working electrode.

This invention may preferably but not exclusively select from the corrosion couples of metal alloy corroded by molten zinc aluminum solder or copper melt.

Various electrochemical experimental methods can be applied such as electrochemical impedance spectroscopy potentiodynamic polarization and cyclic voltammetry.

Alloy sample is inserted into crucible where it is immersed within the molten metal. When coupled to an electrode lead preferably made of platinum or tungsten and more preferably tungsten due to cost issues that passes through the cover alloy sample functions as a working electrode. A solid aluminum electrode that is surrounded by ceramic sleeve is immersed within the molten salt in crucible outside of crucible . Another electrode lead preferably made of platinum passing through cover enables reference electrode to function as a reference electrode. An opening passing through ceramic sleeve enables the molten salt to contact the reference electrode via capillary action. Preferably opening is a micro sized hole.

Furnace preferably includes a heating system having an argon gas supplier purge tube a vacuum pump connection port that allows for a connection to a vacuum pump and a type K thermocouple having protective alumina sleeves. Furnace cover is equipped with openings for the working electrode reference electrode and the counter electrode if provided and the thermocouple. Preferably power controllers and temperature controllers not shown in assist in the operation of the furnace . shows an exemplary outside furnace dimension of 8 inches not including the cover by 12 inches. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the furnace of the present invention may be of any desired dimensions and is not limited to the particular dimensions set forth in . As shown in the other end of each of the electrode leads and respectively are preferably connected to a electrochemical interface equipped with a computerized corrosion system such as for example a Solartron system that is commercially available. shows a most preferred embodiment of this invention having an optional interior furnace chamber lid that has multiple openings that allow for the reference and working electrodes and thermocouples to pass through. Preferably lid is made of alumina. also shows optional cover flange .

In one particular embodiment the molten salt provided in crucible is an electrolyte formed from solid sodium chloride in a saturated sodium chloride aluminum chloride molten salt. The alloy sample is a 316L stainless steel specimen and the molten metal in crucible is a galvanizing bath formed from molten zinc and aluminum. Pure tungsten is most preferably used as the electrode leads because it does not react with any element in the experimental system at the operating temperatures as high as 480 C. The furnace was connected with a vacuum pump via vacuum pump connection port and an argon gas purge tube to prevent oxidation. In a most preferable embodiment of this invention the electrode feed through electrode leads for electronic signal input output are installed by press fittings on top of cover .

The present invention provides a system for the high temperature in situ determination of corrosion characteristics of a molten metal on an alloy under study comprising a a furnace b a first crucible provided in the furnace c a reference electrode working as a counter electrode formed from a generally pure loan of a generally pure first metal provided in the first crucible d an electrolyte provided in the first crucible the electrolyte comprising a molten salt of a halide of the first metal e a second crucible provided within the furnace the second crucible containing a molten metal under study f a measuring electrode formed from an alloy under study the measuring electrode being immersed in the second crucible and g means to measure the electrochemical effects of corrosion of the molten metal under study on the alloy under study. The system of the present invention further provides wherein the furnace comprises a vacuum pump to withdraw air from the furnace an argon gas purge tube and a thermocouple provided within each of the first crucible and second crucible wherein the furnace is maintained at conditions sufficient to maintain the electrolyte and the molten metal in liquid phase.

In another embodiment of the present invention the system as described herein provides wherein the second crucible is provided within the first crucible and is formed from a material resistant to the electrolyte.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the system as described herein provides wherein the reference electrode is insulated by a ceramic sleeve and wherein the reference electrode is exposed to the electrolyte through capillary action through at least one opening provided through the ceramic sleeve.

Another embodiment of the system of the present invention as described herein provides wherein the electrolyte further comprises a molten salt of at least one of an alkali halide and an alkaline earth halide and wherein the second crucible is formed from solid alumina.

In another embodiment of the system of the present invention as described herein the molten metal is formed from zinc aluminum and the alloy is steel.

Another embodiment of the system of the present invention as described herein provides wherein the electrolyte comprises a mixture of sodium chloride and aluminum chloride and the reference electrode is formed from generally pure aluminum and is insulated by a ceramic sleeve and wherein the reference electrode working as the auxiliary electrode is exposed to the electrolyte through capillary action through at least one opening provided through the ceramic sleeve.

In yet another embodiment of the system of the present invention as described herein the first crucible is formed from graphite and said second crucible is formed from solid alumina.

In another embodiment of the system of the present invention as described herein the means to measure by electrochemical means the corrosion effect of the molten metal on the alloy under study performs an analysis using at least one of an electromotive force potentiodynamic and galvanodynamic polarization cyclic voltammetry and electrical impedance spectroscopy to electrochemically measure the corrosion effect.

In a preferred embodiment of this invention the system of the present invention includes wherein the furnace is operated at temperatures in the range from about 450 C. to about 480 C.

A method for the high temperature in situ determination of corrosion characteristics of a molten metal on an alloy Linder study is provided comprising the steps of a providing a first crucible in a furnace b inserting a reference electrode formed from a generally pure form of a generally pure first metal in the first crucible c providing an electrolyte in the first crucible the electrolyte comprising a molten salt of a halide of the first metal d providing a second crucible within the furnace the second crucible containing a molten metal under study e immersing a measuring electrode formed from an alloy under study in the second crucible and f measuring the electrochemical effects of corrosion of the molten metal under study on the alloy under study.

In another embodiment of the method of the present invention as described herein the second crucible is provided within the first crucible and is formed from a material resistant to the electrolyte. Other embodiments of the method of the present invention as described herein provide for the further steps of insulating the reference electrode with a ceramic sleeve and providing at least one opening through the ceramic sleeve the reference electrode being exposed to the electrolyte through capillary action through the opening in the ceramic sleeve.

The method of the present invention as described herein including wherein the electrolyte further comprises a molten salt of at least one of an alkali halide and an alkaline earth halide and wherein the second crucible is formed from solid alumina. Preferably the method includes wherein the molten metal is formed from zinc aluminum and wherein the alloy is steel.

In another preferred embodiment of the method of the present invention as described herein including wherein the electrolyte comprises a mixture of sodium chloride and aluminum chloride and the reference electrode is formed from generally pure aluminum and is insulated by a ceramic sleeve the reference electrode being exposed to the electrolyte through capillary action through one opening provided through the ceramic sleeve.

The method of the present invention as described herein including wherein the means to measure the electrochemical effects of corrosion of said molten metal on said alloy under study performs an analysis using at least one of electromotive force potentiodynamic and galvanodynamic polarization cyclic voltammetry and electrical impedance spectroscopy to electrochemically measure the corrosion effect. In another embodiment the method includes wherein the furnace is operated at temperatures in the range of from about 450 C. to about 480 C.

In situ high temperature electromotive force EMF and high temperature electrochemical tests using an aluminum concentration cell were used to explore the mechanisms of molten zinc aluminum corrosion and dross formation in galvanizing processes. The nature of dross was observed by determining its nucleation phase transformation and stability domains in a molten zinc bath as functions of working temperature T and immersion time t . The electrochemical corrosion behavior of an iron aluminum alloy containing small amount of zinc intermetallic dross particles was also studied.

A Solartron 1287 interface potentiostat galvanostat connected with a Solartron 1260 impedance gain phase analyzer was used for signaling and data recording. Data was analyzed by Solartron CorrWare Zplot and multiStat software. A laptop computer controlled the entire system. All experiments were performed at temperatures ranging from 450 C. to 480 C. Four experimental methods were applied 1 electromotive force EMF 2 electrochemical impedance spectroscopy EIS 3 potentiodynamic and galvanodynamic polarization and 4 cyclic voltammetry CV .

The high temperature electrochemical tests were designed to use seven times the amount of molten chloride electrolyte used in a conventional aluminum sensor. The greater supply of electrolyte facilitates ion transfer during the reaction thus permitting sufficient time to detect the electrochemical and EMF behavior as the high temperature experiment runs.

Zinc melts of about 2 kg with 0.22 wt aluminum were prepared in a graphite crucible to obtain a clean galvanizing bath without iron contamination. High grade zinc ingots supplied by Metallics Systems Division of Pyrotek Inc. were used to prepare the zinc bath. A Mother alloy composed of zinc with 5 wt aluminum supplied by Wheeling Nisshin Co was added to the bath as an aluminum source. Analytical grade super high purity 99.999 aluminum rods were used as the reference electrodes which functioned also as the counter electrode. The working electrode was 316L stainless steel wire. The surface of the 316L stainless steel wire was mechanically polished with sand paper to 800 grit and then rinsed with distilled water before the experiments started.

The electrolyte was a hypoeutectic mixture of sodium chloride and hydrous aluminum chloride saturated with solid sodium chloride. Since aluminum chloride evaporates easily the vapor pressure at the experimental temperature was controlled to ensure the composition works well as an ion conductor. Both the sodium chloride and hydrous aluminum chloride were analytical grade pure and the total mass of salt electrolyte was 1157.45 grams determined by the size of the graphite crucible used for the tests. Although aluminum chloride is very volatile it was established that during the experiment sufficient aluminum chloride remained as the electrolyte to keep the potential steady.

 Alumina was used in the experiment as the solid electrolyte due to its layered crystal structure which makes it an excellent ion conductor that is stable in corrosive reducing and oxidative environments. The whole block of pure alumina raw materials were machined down to a cup by using a pair of custom designed core drills. The wall thickness of the alumina cup was 18 mm and the length was 155 mm.

After the experiment is finished the 316L stainless steel wire sample is taken out and a cross section of the rods is cut at the dross line using EDM. The sections are then mounted and polished for analysis with scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive spectroscopy.

EMF has been used in many molten metal research studies such as liquid Li Sn system. By employing the in situ electromotive force EMF method using an aluminum concentration cell the chemical potential of Al in the galvanizing bath coexisting with solid dross phase can be experimentally determined as a function of temperature T . The potential diagram can be estimated to illustrate the nucleation and stability domains of the dross phase in the molten Zn bath as functions of working temperature T and immersion time t . Most of the reaction kinetics of dross nucleation are categorized as a heterogeneous precipitation and phase transformation which are controlled to a large extent by the supersaturation. Based on the established EMF T and EMF t plots it was possible to determine the critical supersaturation boundary for dross nucleation and phase transformation and therefore experimentally evaluate and illustrate the behaviors of dross.

During the EMF tests 316L stainless steel dipped in liquid Zn 0.22 wt Al was the working electrode while aluminum with 99.999 purity was the reference electrode. The electrolyte was NaCl AlCl molten salt saturated solid NaCl. These tests showed that during the rapid temperature drops the corresponding EMF value dropped abruptly which caused more aluminum transfer from liquid phase to solid phase which resulted in the drop of the EMF value. Similarly adding more aluminum to the testing system raised the aluminum content in the solid phase and therefore reduced the EMF

The anodic potentiodynamic and galvanodynamic polarization with a scanning rate of 0.5 mV s and 0.625 mA s respectively were carried out on the AlCl NaCl molten salt based 316L molten Zn 0.22Al system. Anodic potentiodynamic polarization was carried out at temperatures of 455 C. and 475 C. respectively. The polarization began with a potential of 0.22 V vs. OC and ended with a potential at 1.78 V vs. . For the anodic galvanodynamic polarization the polarization began with a current of 0.50 A and ended with a current at 1.0 A at 485 C. Electrochemical potentiodynamic polarization curves were measured and recorded using Solartron 1287 interface potentiostat galvanostat controlled by Solartron CorrWare and multiStat software.

Besides the polarization described above cyclic voltammetry was also applied to the AlCl NaCl molten salt based 316L molten Zn 0.22Al electrochemistry system. Cyclic voltammetric experiments were carried out using a Solartron SI 1287 electrochemical interface equipped with a computerized corrosion system Solartron . The automatic current interrupt method included in the Solartron operational software was employed to compensate for any undesired ohmic drop caused by the distance between the working reference and counter electrodes. In the current interrupt technique the cell current is periodically turned off for a short time period. With no current through the solution resistance the undesired ohmic drop disappears. The potential drops at the electrode surface remains constant on a rapid time scale. The difference in potential with the current flowing and without is a measure of the uncompensated undesired ohmic drop. The scanning potential range was between 0.60 V and 0.40V vs SCE . The scanning rate was 50 mV s. The experiment was running at 500 C.

EIS measurements were performed by applying an AC signal of amplitude AC 20 mV with and without external DC polarization DC 500 mV . The scanning frequency range used was from 10to 10Hz. A Solartron 1260 impedance gain phase analyzer controlled by Solartron ZWare multiStat software was applied. All the data were recorded 30 points per decade averaged over 5 seconds at each frequency. All experiments were run at temperatures ranging from 455 C. to 515 C.

All the EIS data are plotted in . An influence of the external DC polarization is clear by comparing the six EIS curves. Typically applying DC polarization decreased the value of the Z shifting the EIS curves towards the negative direction of the Zaxis. Since Zwas mainly determined by the value of the constant charge transfer resistance the external DC polarization accelerated the whole cell reaction rate by reducing the value of the charge transfer resistance or so called electrode reaction resistance .

The development of more than one time constant is deduced from inspection of the EIS spectra shown in . The result reflects the diversity of phenomena that occur in the systems under investigation. The HIS plot is divided into three zones i inductance in the high frequency zone ii capacitance in the middle frequency zone and iii the Warburg resistance in the low frequency zone with linear slope very close to 1 which implies a standard Warburg resistance determined by the system diffusion.

The present invention can be used to conduct research on molten zinc aluminum corrosion and dross formation thermodynamics by applying electrochemistry research methods at high temperature. Nucleation and stability of dross phases in equilibrium with the liquid phase can be investigated. Using the present invention all regular electrochemical techniques and measurements including polarization impedance and cyclic voltammetry can be used to study high temperature corrosion and dross formation by increasing the working temperature of the molten metal corrosion system.

Except as may be expressly otherwise indicated the article a or an if and as used herein is not intended to limit and should not be construed as limiting the description or a claim to a single element to which the article refers. Rather the article a or an if and as used herein is intended to cover one or more such elements unless the text expressly indicates otherwise.

Specific methods and compositions described herein are representative of preferred embodiments and are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Other objects aspects and embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art upon consideration of this specification and are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims. Where examples are given the description shall be construed to include but not to be limited to only those examples. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that varying substitutions and modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention and from the description of the inventions including those illustratively set forth herein it is manifest that various modifications and equivalents can be used to implement the concepts of the present invention without departing from its scope. A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Thus for example additional embodiments are within the scope of the invention and within the following claims.

