---

title: System and method for re-distributing and transferring mobile gift cards
abstract: A system and method for re-distributing and transferring mobile gift cards is described. One embodiment, a computer-server-based method, receives a selection of a particular mobile gift card belonging to the first user; receives a request to transfer a specified monetary amount from a balance of the particular mobile gift card to a second user; receives a phone number of the second user; associates, with the second user's phone number, a separate mobile gift card having an associated balance equal to the specified monetary amount; and transmits a notification of the separate mobile gift card to a mobile device associated with the second user's phone number; the computer server acting as a server-side wallet for the separate mobile gift card, and the separate mobile gift card being usable, through interaction with the computer server, by the second user for the purchase of goods from the particular merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08589267&OS=08589267&RS=08589267
owner: Mocapay, Inc.
number: 08589267
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081223
---
The present application claims priority from both of the following U.S. provisional patent applications Application No. 61 018 809 entitled System and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards filed on Jan. 3 2008 and Application No. 61 025 201 entitled System and Method for Re Distributing and Transferring Mobile Gift Cards filed on Jan. 31 2008 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present application is related to commonly owned and assigned application Ser. No. 12 343 423 entitled System and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards filed herewith.

The present invention relates generally to electronic commerce. More specifically but not by way of limitation the present invention relates to systems and methods for re distributing and transferring mobile gift cards.

Gift cards have become increasingly popular in recent years and racks containing gift cards for various merchants are commonplace at grocery stores convenience stores street vendors and other locations. One person pays the merchant or a distributor marketing gift cards for the merchant a specified amount of money for the gift card and gives the gift card to another person the recipient or holder of the gift card as a gift. The holder of a gift card is then able to purchase from any merchant associated with that gift card goods or services costing less than or equal to the monetary value associated with the gift card. Merchants like gift cards because they receive the funds immediately and the gift card makes it very likely that the recipient will visit the merchant s store or Web site. Though gift cards have the same value as cash one disadvantage of conventional gift cards is that the user has to physically present the card to a merchant when using it to make a purchase. This burden is worsened if the card is ever lost because replacement gift cards are generally unavailable.

Attempts have been made to overcome some of the disadvantages of typical plastic magnetically encoded gift cards. For example various kinds of electronic gift cards and electronic gift certificates have been developed but these have their own disadvantages. Specifically fulfillment can take several days preventing an electronic gift card recipient from making immediate use of the electronic gift card or gift certificate. Also electronic gift cards stored in the holder s mobile device e.g. a cellular telephone make the mobile device an enticing target for theft.

A system and method is thus needed to overcome the inherent limitations of conventional physical and electronic gift cards.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

The present invention can provide a system and method for distributing mobile gift cards. One illustrative embodiment is a computer server based method for transferring a mobile gift card from a first user to a second user comprising receiving from a list of one or more mobile gift cards associated with a phone number of the first user a selection of a particular mobile gift card the particular mobile gift card being associated with a particular merchant receiving a request to transfer a specified monetary amount from a balance of the particular mobile gift card to a second user receiving a phone number of the second user associating with the second user s phone number a separate mobile gift card having an associated balance equal to the specified monetary amount the separate mobile gift card being associated with the particular merchant and transmitting a notification of the separate mobile gift card to a mobile device associated with the second user s phone number wherein the computer server acts as a server side wallet for the separate mobile gift card and the separate mobile gift card is usable through interaction with the computer server by the second user for the purchase of goods from the particular merchant.

Another illustrative embodiment is a system for transferring a mobile gift card comprising at least one processor and a memory containing a plurality of program instructions executable by the at least one processor the plurality of program instructions being configured to cause the at least one processor to receive from a list of one or more mobile gift cards associated with a phone number of the first user a selection of a particular mobile gift card the particular mobile gift card being associated with a particular merchant receive a request to transfer a specified monetary amount from a balance of the particular mobile gift card to a second user receive a phone number of the second user associate with the second user s phone number a separate mobile gift card having an associated balance equal to the specified monetary amount the separate mobile gift card being associated with the particular merchant and transmit a notification of the separate mobile gift card to a mobile device associated with the second user s phone number wherein the system acts as a server side wallet for the separate mobile gift card and the separate mobile gift card is usable through interaction with the system by the second user for the purchase of goods from the particular merchant.

In various illustrative embodiments of the invention the limitations of conventional physical and electronic gift cards are overcome by replacing the physical form factor of a plastic magnetically encoded gift card with a mobile device such as a cellular telephone in a manner that leaves intact existing gift card systems and services operated by gift card service providers such as FIRST DATA and COMDATA.

A mobile gift card platform in accordance with these illustrative embodiments provides among other things a server side digital wallet for mobile gift cards that overcomes the shortcomings e.g. risk of loss or theft associated with virtual gift cards or gift certificates that reside within the mobile device itself. In these illustrative embodiments no credentials account numbers balances or other sensitive information associated with the mobile gift card reside in the mobile device itself. Instead a secure network infrastructure distributes and manages the mobile gift cards and their associated credentials the mobile device acting merely as one means for the user to communicate with the server side digital wallet to access a variety of flexible services surrounding use of the mobile gift cards.

Such flexible services include without limitation the ability of a user to view a list of all available mobile gift cards in his or her server side digital wallet the ability to view the current balance of any particular mobile gift card the ability to purchase securely goods or services from the merchant associated with a particular gift card using the mobile device at the point of sale however the option to use a physical card is not preempted by the mobile gift card platform described herein and the ability to transfer some or all of the balance of a particular mobile gift card to another person.

Referring now to the drawings where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and referring in particular to it is a functional block diagram of an environment in which various illustrative embodiments of the invention can be implemented. In environment distributor merchant s agent merchant payment processor wireless carrier and gift card service provider are able to communicate with one another via network . A user s mobile device e.g. a cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS phone is also able to communicate with nodes connected with network via wireless carrier . In some embodiments network includes but is not necessarily limited to the Internet.

The environment in builds on existing gift card systems operated by gift card service providers such as without limitation FIRST DATA and COMDATA. Gift card service provider among other things administers the financial aspects of gift cards including keeping track of the balance associated with a particular gift card settlement reporting to merchants and other functions.

Merchant sells goods services or both and provides mobile gift cards to consumers with the assistance of merchant s agent . That is merchant s agent facilitates the distribution and sale of mobile gift cards issued by merchant by acting as an intermediary between merchant and any of the following 1 a gift card service provider 2 mobile gift card distributors 3 mobile gift card purchasers those giving the mobile gift cards to others and 4 mobile gift card recipients consumers who use the mobile gift cards in commerce . A consumer holding such a mobile gift card can use the mobile gift card to purchase goods or services from the particular merchant that issued the mobile gift card as explained above. How the holder of a mobile gift card uses the mobile gift card to make purchases from the issuing merchant is discussed further below.

Payment processor processes the source of funds for transactions carried out from a user s mobile device such as the user s reloading of a mobile gift card or purchase of a mobile gift card on behalf of someone else. In such transactions payment processor acts as an agent of the merchant to collect funds from the user s credit card or other payment source. In some embodiments an entity acting as a payment processor in certain contexts may also be a distributor in other contexts.

Distributor markets mobile gift cards and in some embodiments is somewhat analogous to an entity such as grocery store chain SAFEWAY which markets conventional plastic magnetically encoded gift cards for a variety of other merchants on racks in its grocery stores with the assistance of a conventional gift card merchant s agent such as BLACKHAWK or IDT. Distributor can take on a variety of different forms depending on the particular embodiment.

In one embodiment distributor is an entity not necessarily a merchant that operates a Web site or other electronic communication channel where mobile gift cards for a number of different merchants are offered in an aggregated fashion. In another embodiment a single merchant markets its mobile gift cards via remote distribution channels local distribution channels or both. For example a merchant may market its mobile gift cards via a remote distribution channel such as a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel using Application Programming Interfaces APIs supplied by merchant s agent or another entity. That is a merchant may use flexible APIs provided by merchant s agent to customize a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel to offer its mobile gift cards in a manner consistent with the merchant s particular brand identify logos etc. A merchant may also employ local distribution methods in a store at the point of sale . In such an embodiment the mobile gift card can be mobilized made accessible to the recipient via the recipient s mobile device at the point of sale.

In yet another embodiment distributor is a social networking Web site where the interests and preferences of a potential mobile gift card recipient are revealed to that person s friends and family. For example John may discover on the social networking Web site FACEBOOK www.facebook.com that his friend Alan likes to shop at BEST BUY and John can purchase a BEST BUY mobile gift card for Alan at the social networking site. The above are merely a few examples of distributors . Mobile gift cards can be marketed in a wide variety of ways and settings.

In an illustrative embodiment merchant receives the funds from a user s purchase of a mobile gift card minus a predetermined fee that is paid to the merchant s agent .

In some embodiments mobile user can use a variety of different access methods such as without limitation Short Message Service SMS messages Multimedia Message Service MMS messages Wireless Access Protocol WAP an application or voice to obtain one use perishable authorization codes from mobile commerce platform in making payments from a variety of different tenders forms of payment including mobile gift cards. Mobile user can also use a variety of methods including the above examples to provide one use perishable authorization codes to merchants in making electronic purchases . Additional details regarding such mobile payment technology can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 620 entitled Systems and Method for Secure Wireless Payment Transactions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Mobile user may also receive targeted marketing messages before during or after a mobile purchase via mobile commerce platform and may purchase mobile gift cards from a carrier e.g. T MOBILE AT T VERIZON WIRELESS etc. or other distributor such as a social networking Web site. The targeted marketing messages are assisted by the ability of merchant to submit marketing rules content or both to mobile commerce platform .

Merchant receives payment authorizations from mobile commerce platform in conjunction with the mobile payments technology mentioned above in connection with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 620. The mobile payments process is summarized briefly below.

Mobile commerce platform facilitates the activation of mobile gift cards sold by a carrier or other entity or other distributor in cooperation with gift card system via communication link . Gift card system also provides among other things settlement and reporting services to merchant .

When mobile user makes a purchase using a mobile gift card mobile user contacts mobile commerce platform using any of a variety of access methods e.g. SMS MMS WAP or other browser technology application voice to provide an optional personal identification number PIN by which mobile commerce platform authenticates mobile user . Mobile commerce platform provides mobile user with one time perishable time limited authorization codes and balances for various tenders available to that user including mobile gift cards. In the present example mobile user selects a specific mobile gift card to be used in making the purchase. The mobile payments enabled merchant submits the authorization code provided by mobile user and the transaction amount to mobile commerce platform . Mobile commerce platform routes the transaction parameters to gift card system which ensures that the requested amount is available on the indicated mobile gift card. If everything checks out gift card system informs mobile commerce platform which in turn conveys a return authorization to the merchant completing the transaction .

With this high level background in place the remainder of this Detailed Description focuses primarily on the distribution and transfer of mobile gift cards.

Input devices include for example a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device or other devices that are used to input data or commands to server to control its operation. Communication interfaces may include for example various serial or parallel interfaces for communicating with network see or one or more peripherals.

Memory may include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory magnetic storage e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage or a combination of these depending on the particular embodiment. In memory includes mobile gift card management platform which distributes and manages mobile gift cards. In doing so mobile gift card management platform accesses and manipulates mobile gift card data which may reside at least in part on storage devices .

As mentioned above mobile gift card management platform implements a server side digital wallet for the mobile gift card data . A mobile gift card is thus a digital construct stored digital data that replaces a physical e.g. plastic magnetically encoded gift card. In this illustrative embodiment server stores account information for each mobile gift card holder. That is each mobile gift card user initially creates an account on server . This account information includes for each mobile gift card belonging to a particular user 1 the user s mobile phone number 2 the account number of the particular mobile gift card analogous to a card number of a physical gift card and 3 the merchant that issued the mobile gift card. In some embodiments server stores additional information or different information from that just indicated. Note however that in this particular embodiment the balance remaining on the mobile gift card is not stored on server . Instead the balance is tracked by the gift card service provider that operates the applicable gift card system . As mentioned above no credentials associated with a mobile gift card reside on the user s mobile device.

In one illustrative embodiment mobile gift card management platform is implemented as software that is executed by processor . Such software may be stored prior to its being loaded into RAM for execution by processor on any suitable computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive an optical disk or a flash memory. In general the functionality of mobile gift card management platform may be implemented as software firmware hardware or any combination or sub combination thereof. The methods carried out by mobile gift card management platform are explained more fully below in connection with .

A typical application for mobile gift cards is a situation in which User A wishes to give User B a gift card e.g. User B has a birthday coming up . From a user perspective User A can communicate with server of mobile commerce platform in a variety of different ways to purchase a mobile gift card for User B. Examples include without limitation a Web site hosted by server or another server elsewhere on the network and visited by User A using a client personal computer PC a Web site or other portal accessed using User A s cellular or PCS phone a visit by User A at the merchant s store or other avenues e.g. User A s wireless carrier or a social networking Web site as discussed above. User A can employ methods such as without limitation SMS MMS WAP a microbrowser on a mobile device or voice in person or over the phone to initiate a gift card purchase for User B. In general User A simply needs a way to communicate directly or indirectly with server . The foregoing example of User A purchasing a mobile gift card for User B will be referred to frequently in the description of that follows.

At mobile gift card management platform receives from User A an indication of the monetary amount for the mobile gift card to be created and distributed and at receives an electronic payment for that amount from User A.

At mobile gift card management platform applies the specified amount to the mobile gift card and at associates the mobile gift card with User B s the recipient s phone number provided by User A .

At mobile gift card management platform transmits or otherwise conveys a notification regarding the mobile gift card to a mobile device e.g. a cellular or PCS phone associated with User B s the recipient s phone number provided by User A above in Block .

The notification transmitted at may be accomplished in a variety of ways including without limitation an SMS message an MMS message a voice message or an application. The application in some embodiments is a WAP browser or other type of Internet browser running on the mobile gift card recipient s mobile device. In other embodiments the application is a specialized application other than a browser.

In some embodiments the notification to the recipient includes a personalized message created by User A such as Happy birthday Amy I ve sent you a mobile gift card for JC PENNY. Enjoy Marsha. 

Following receipt of the mobile gift card User B can after proper activation with mobile gift card management platform use the mobile gift card to purchase goods or services from the merchant associated with the mobile gift card in a variety of different ways as explained above see discussion of secure payments in connection with above .

Activation can also take different forms depending on the particular embodiment. In some embodiments for example the notification User B receives includes instructions to User B for how to activate the mobile gift card. For example the notification may be an SMS message stating Bob you ve received a 100 mobile gift card for SPORTS AUTHORITY. Please visit mocapay.com to activate your mobile gift card. Note that in such embodiments the notification includes a hyperlinked Uniform Resource Locator URL for User B to follow to complete the activation process. Alternatively User B could be provided with a phone number an e mail address or other contact information for accomplishing activation. When User B contacts mobile commerce platform to activate the mobile gift card User B is directed to create an account if User B does not already have one. Mobile commerce platform guides User B through this straightforward process.

In another embodiment if User B already has an account with mobile commerce platform the mobile gift card is activated automatically when the notification is transmitted to User B which makes the mobile gift card available to User B immediately upon receipt of the notification. To spend the mobile gift card User B communicates with the server side digital wallet supported by mobile gift card management platform in the manner described above in connection with .

At mobile gift card management platform receives a specific activation date from User A the party purchasing the mobile gift card . For example if User B s birthday is still five days in the future User A would like to postpone notification of the mobile gift card until User B s birthday. In such an embodiment notification of the mobile gift card is conveyed to User B on the activation date specified by User A.

At mobile gift card management platform causes the amount of the mobile gift card purchased by User A minus a predetermined fee that goes to merchant s agent to be remitted to the applicable merchant associated with the mobile gift card. Payment of the merchant is accomplished via the settlement process mentioned above in connection with .

Block includes the modification mentioned above that the notification of the mobile gift card to User B is conveyed to User B s mobile device on the activation date specified by User A. At the method terminates.

In some embodiments the purchaser of a mobile gift card and the recipient of that mobile gift card may be one and the same person. That is a user may instead of purchasing a mobile gift card for another person purchase a mobile gift card for himself or herself.

At User B communicates with mobile gift card management platform via any of the methods mentioned above e.g. SMS MMS WAP application voice or any others that might be applicable in a particular embodiment and mobile gift card management platform receives a selection of a particular mobile gift card from among those in User B s server side digital wallet. For example User B might contact mobile gift card management platform using a cellular phone equipped with a WAP browser and view a list of available gift cards and their balances. At mobile gift card management platform receives a request from User B to transfer all or a portion of the selected mobile gift card to another person User C .

At mobile gift card management platform receives from User B a phone number associated with User C. At mobile gift card management platform associates with User C s phone number a mobile gift card in the amount of the transfer specified by User B at Block . The transferred mobile gift card belonging to User C has the same merchant associated with it as the original mobile gift card belonging to User B.

At mobile gift card management platform transmits or otherwise conveys a notification of User C s new mobile gift card to a mobile device associated with User C s the recipient s phone number. At the method terminates.

Note that in some embodiments where User B transfers the entire remaining balance of a mobile gift card to User C it is not necessary for mobile gift card management platform to create a separate mobile gift card for User C. In that case the existing mobile gift card can simply be remapped from an association with User B s phone number to an association with User C s phone number effectively deleting that mobile gift card from User B s account. Where User B elects to transfer less than the entire remaining balance however User B continues to hold the original mobile gift card with its remaining balance and a new separate mobile gift card in the amount of the transfer is created for User C.

Note that this ability to re gift mobile gift cards as described above essentially puts User B in the position of being a mobile gift card distributor and User C can do likewise and so on. Once created the separate mobile gift cards in this illustrative embodiment are completely independent of each other.

In the case of a mobile gift card that a user receives through a transfer from another user all of the same options and features described above regarding notification e.g. personalization activation and use payments apply equally to such a transferred mobile gift card.

In conclusion the present invention provides among other things a system and method for re distributing and transferring mobile gift cards. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims.

