---

title: Detecting meniscal tears in non-invasive scans
abstract: Techniques for automatically detecting meniscus include receiving pixels from a scanning device directed to a knee of a subject. Also received is a region of interest that includes pixels that correspond to at least a portion of a meniscus of the knee. Without human intervention, a meniscus extraction threshold is determined based on pixel intensities in the region of interest. A meniscus object portion of the scan data is further determined without human intervention based on the meniscus extraction threshold and a geometrical constraint. Other techniques for automatically detecting meniscal tears includes receiving a meniscus object portion of scan data from a scanning device and receiving threshold data that indicates a meniscus extraction threshold. Without human intervention, a propensity for meniscal tears is determined based on the threshold data and the meniscus object portion of the scan data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08180126&OS=08180126&RS=08180126
owner: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
number: 08180126
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080812
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60 964 461 filed Aug. 13 2007 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made in part with US Government support from the Department of Veterans Affairs VA . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to interpreting non invasive scans of a knee of a subject to determine properties of a meniscus of the knee and in particular to determining one or more properties of the meniscus such as tears without human intervention.

The meniscus is an important part of the knee support mechanism. It includes 2 large C shaped medial side and O shaped lateral side structures and acts as a cushion between the femur and the tibia. Although the meniscus is highly tolerant to axial forces it is susceptible to rotational forces which may result in meniscal tearing. If a tear originating in the periphery of the meniscus is left untreated it propagates easily and may affect the mechanical integrity of the entire knee joint. Knee related injuries including meniscal tears are common in both young athletes and the aging population requiring accurate diagnosis and when appropriate surgical intervention. Despite the frequency of such injuries few published studies have focused on means to enhance and refine detection of meniscal tears. See for example Y Hata S Kobashi S Tokimoto M Ishikawa H Ishikawa Computer aided diagnosis system of meniscal tears with T1 and T2 weighted MR images based on fuzzy inference Lect Notes vol. 2206 pp 55 58 2001 .

The meniscus is a soft tissue feature with low contrast in imagery from many scanning devices such as X rays and X ray computer tomography CT scans. The superior soft tissue contrast and spatial resolution provided by magnetic resonance MR imaging enables radiologists to characterize and differentiate pathologic from normal soft tissue including meniscus tissue. MR imaging offers significant and specific help in the diagnosis of internal derangements of the knee including meniscal tears. A normal meniscus appears as uniform low signal triangles or polygons on certain slices of MR imaging. However when the meniscus is torn the normal low signal appearance is disrupted. A meniscal tear then can be detected if the normal shape of the meniscus is disrupted by an abnormal signal or if part of the meniscus is missing. Challenges in diagnoses of meniscal pathology include differentiation of tears which indicate a need for surgery from internal degenerative change which would obviate the need for surgery.

With proper techniques and experienced skills confidence in detection of meniscal tears by a skilled radiologist can be quite high. However for radiologists without musculoskeletal training diagnosis of meniscal tears can be challenging. Even for highly experienced radiologists the effort to explore multiple images from the MR scans and identify views of the meniscus with sufficient area and detail to detect tears is tedious and time consuming and can lead to errors of omission if a salient scan slice is skipped.

In a first set of embodiments a method for automatically detecting meniscus in non invasive scans includes receiving scan data from a scanning device in which the scan data is directed to a knee of a subject. Data that indicates a region of interest within the scan data is also received. The region of interest includes scan elements that correspond to at least a portion of a meniscus of the knee of the subject. Without human intervention a meniscus extraction threshold is determined based on scan element intensities in the region of interest. A meniscus object portion of the scan data is further determined without human intervention based on the meniscus extraction threshold and a geometrical constraint.

In some of these embodiments receiving the data that indicates the region of interest includes determining the region of interest within the scan data without human intervention based on historical usage of the scanning device.

In some of the first set of embodiments determining the meniscus extraction threshold includes determining a single average intensity of all the scan elements in the region of interest and determining the meniscus extraction threshold as a numeric factor of the average intensity.

In a second set of embodiments a method for automatically detecting meniscal tears in non invasive scans includes receiving a meniscus object portion of scan data from a scanning device and receiving threshold data that indicates an intensity threshold used to define the meniscus object portion of the scan data. Without human intervention a propensity for meniscal tears is determined based on the threshold data and the meniscus object portion of the scan data.

In some of the embodiments of the second set receiving the meniscus object portion of the scan data includes determining the meniscus object portion from the scan data without human intervention.

In some of the embodiments of the second set determining the propensity for meniscal tears includes determining a breakability measure based on a largest breaking fraction of a plurality of fractions of the particular intensity used to define the meniscus object portion. A threshold based on a breaking fraction divides the meniscus object portion into multiple distinct portions.

In some of the embodiments of the second set determining the propensity for meniscal tears includes determining a degeneracy measure. The degeneracy measure is based on decrease in area of the meniscus object portion that is within a threshold when the threshold is equal to a fraction of the particular intensity used to define the meniscus object portion. The decrease in area is determined for multiple fractions of the particular intensity.

In some of the embodiments of the second set determining the propensity for meniscal tears includes determining if a property in the meniscus object portion of the scan data is similar to properties in historical scan data for which a tear occurred. If so then it is determined that the scan data indicates a tear in a meniscus of the knee of the subject.

In various other embodiments an apparatus or logic encoded in one or more tangible media or instructions encoded on one or more computer readable media is configured to perform one or more steps of the above methods.

A method and apparatus are described for detecting meniscus tissue or tears therein or both. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of current MR imagery used by radiologists to detect meniscal tears. In this kind of imagery the meniscus tissue is represented by the lowest intensities inside the outer surface of the subject and pixel sizes are about 0.3125 millimeters mm 1 mm 10meters across. However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments other scanning devices that also differentiate meniscus tissue from cartilage tissue and that also show varying intensity within meniscus tissue no matter the range of intensities are used with larger or smaller pixel sizes including future MR scanners CT scanners multispectral CT scanners ultrasound scanners positron emission tomography PET and other appropriate medical imagining devices known by one of ordinary skill in the art at the time an embodiment is implemented.

The system is designed for determining the spatial arrangement of soft target tissue in a living body. For purposes of illustration a living body is depicted as subject but is not part of the system . In the illustrated embodiment the subject is depicted in a supine position with feet closest to the viewer and pointing up and head on the far side. The view of is in a plane perpendicular to a long axis of the subject which is called herein an axial plane. Positions in the subject closer to the subject bottom are said to be inferior while positions closer to the subject top are said to be superior. Positions in the subject closer to the subject front are said to be anterior while positions closer to the subject back are said to be posterior. A medial plane perpendicular to the axial plane divides the left half of the subject from the right half and is a symmetry axis of approximate reflected symmetry. A coronal plane is perpendicular to both the axial plane and the medial plane . A front view direction of the coronal plane is the coronal view direction . A sagittal plane is parallel to the medial plane . A side of a knee closer to the medial plane is called the medial side and the opposite side of the knee is the lateral side. The meniscus in each knee of the subject includes a large C shaped medial meniscus and large O shaped lateral meniscus.

In the illustrated embodiment system includes a scanning device scanner such as a full dose X ray computed tomography CT scanner a multi spectral CT scanner or a magnetic resonance imaging MRI scanner. In some embodiments the scanner is used at two or more different times. The scanner is configured to produce scanned images such that each image represents a cross section of the living body at one of multiple cross sectional transverse slices often approximately parallel to the axial plane and often initially arranged along the axial direction of the subject.

In system the scanner is controlled by one or more devices such as one or more networked computers represented by controller . Data from the scanner is received at a controller and stored on a storage device as scan data . Computer systems and storage devices as in controller are described in more detail in a later section.

In various embodiments a meniscal tear process operates on controller to determine a boundary between scan elements of scan data which are inside and outside a meniscus and process the scan elements inside the boundary to determine a propensity for tears.

Although system is depicted with a particular number of scanners controllers and scan data for purposes of illustration in other embodiments more scanners controllers or scan data constitute an imaging system for determining properties of meniscus tissue.

The terms scan elements pixels and voxels are used interchangeably herein to represent either 2D scan elements pixels or 3D scan elements voxels or both depending on the context. A 2D image at any orientation e.g. axial coronal or sagittal among others can be constructed from a 3D array of scan elements by collecting the scan elements closest to a selected plane for the image.

In step scan data from a scanning device is received. For example scan data is received from scanner . In an illustrated embodiment the scan data is received from a current MR scanner but it is specifically anticipated that in other embodiments scan data is received from later generation MR imagers or other scanning devices. In the illustrated embodiments scan data was received for subjects scanned using either Siemens Avanto 1.5 T MR or a Siemens Esprit 1.5 T scanner. An 8 channel extremity coil was used. Sagittal T1 weighted sequences TR 580 800 ms TE 10 20 ms and a 512 512 were used. Meniscal tears can be diagnosed on both T1 and proton density MR images from this equipment.

Any method may be used to receive this data. For example in various embodiments the data is retrieved from a local file or database or is sent from a different node on the network either in response to a query or unsolicited or the data is received using some combination of these methods.

In step a region of interest ROI in the scan data is determined without human intervention based on historical use of scanning device. The region of interest is a subset of the scan data that includes scan elements that correspond to meniscus tissue and the vicinity thereof. In some embodiment the ROI is determined by a human analyst and step is replaced with a different step for receiving data that indicates the ROI. In some embodiments other parameters are also determined or received in this step such as meniscus size and shape ranges and tear threshold scores described in more detail below. Any method may be used to receive the ROI data or the historical data that indicates a ROI or other parameters. For example in various embodiments the data is included as a default value in software instructions is received as manual input from an analyst or technician on the local or a remote node is retrieved from a local file or database or is sent from a different node on the network either in response to a query or unsolicited or the data is received using some combination of these methods. A particular embodiment of step is described in more detail in a following section with reference to and .

In step an intensity threshold called a meniscus extraction threshold that distinguishes the scan elements that correspond to the meniscus from surrounding tissue is determined automatically without human intervention based on the region of interest. For current MR scan data in which the meniscus is represented by scan elements with the lowest intensities the threshold is an upper threshold. In other scanning devices in which the meniscus tissue is represented by scan elements with the highest intensities the threshold is a lower threshold. In still other embodiments in which the meniscus tissue is represented by scan elements with intermediate intensities the threshold is a matched pair of upper and lower thresholds. In the illustrated embodiment the meniscus extraction threshold is adaptively determined for each set of scan data to allow for observed differences in thresholds among different devices and operators. A particular embodiment of step is described in more detail in a following section with reference to . In some embodiments a human analyst determines the meniscus extraction threshold of the scan data and step is omitted.

It is noted here that many scan elements that do not represent meniscus tissue are also indicated by the threshold and so in the illustrated embodiments meniscus like objects are defined. The meniscus extraction threshold determined in step according to these embodiments produces the maximum number of meniscus like objects when summed over all slices that span the ROI. As used herein an object is a contiguous set of scan elements with intensities within the threshold below an upper threshold or above a lower threshold or between a lower threshold and upper threshold of a matched pair . A meniscus like object is an object that satisfies geometrical constraints for meniscus such as falling within a particular size range or shape range or both. An embodiment of step defining meniscus like objects is described in more detail below with reference to .

In step a meniscus object portion of the scan data is determined automatically without human intervention based on the meniscus intensity threshold. In embodiments in which the meniscus extraction threshold was determined based on the number of meniscus like objects these objects were already determined. In the illustrated embodiment the meniscus object portion of the scan data includes not just the scan elements of the meniscus like object but all scan elements in a minimum convex mask that encompasses the meniscus like object. A particular embodiment of step is described in more detail in a following section with reference to and . In some embodiments a human analyst determines the meniscus object portion of the scan data and step is omitted.

In step the meniscus object portion of the scan data is examined to determine a propensity for meniscal tears without human intervention based on the meniscus extraction threshold. In some embodiments a score proportional to propensity for tears is determined. In some embodiments a tear no tear decision is made during step for each of one or more divisions of the meniscus e.g. medial lateral anterior posterior . As used herein a propensity for tears is indicated by any data that visualizes summarizes or measures bright non cartilage pixels in a meniscus object portion of scan data including gray scale images color images binary images scores weighted scores combined scores and tear no tear decisions as described in more detail below. A particular embodiment of step is described in more detail in a following section with reference to and . In some embodiments a human analyst reviews the scan data in the meniscus object portion to determine tear propensity and step is omitted.

In step data that indicates the propensity for tears is presented to a user. For example the pixels in the meniscus object portion of the scan data is presented to a user. In various embodiments data indicating the score or tear no tear decision or both is also presented during step . A particular embodiment of step is described in more detail in a following section with reference to .

In step a size of an area of interest AOI is selected that is useful for detecting the meniscus in one slice of the scan data of the type received in step . For example based on experience with sagittal slices where the meniscus is prominent see e.g. described below a historically useful area is about three centimeters cm 1 cm 10meters vertically by five and a half centimeters horizontally which is sufficient to encompass the knee joint where the meniscus is found. For current MR scanners with pixel size of 0.3125 mm an appropriate AOI is 100 rows by 180 columns of pixels for an area of 3.125 cm by 5.625 cm see e.g. AOI in .

In step an initial set of sagittal slices with historically prominent views of the meniscus is selected. Analysis of tears by a human analyst is historically performed using sagittal slices where the meniscus is clearly seen with sufficient area to detect tears. The inventors determined that the locations of meniscal tissue relative to the imaged volume tend to be stable when a uniform acquisition protocol is utilized as is currently standard procedure. The inventors have determined that most useful sagittal slices are those that depict portions of the subject s knee from about 20 to about 35 of the distance across the knee from either the lateral or medial side. Thus in an illustrated embodiment the initial set of sagittal slices are located from about 20 percent to about 35 percent of a distance between an outside pair of sagittal planes that are each tangent to a different outer surface of the knee of the subject. This distance corresponds to about 20 to about 35 of the total number N of sagittal slices that span the knee.

In step a mean image is determined for the sagittal slices in the initial set. Each mean scan element in the mean image is based on an average of intensity values in corresponding scan elements in the initial set of sagittal slices of the scan data. This relationship is indicated by Equation 1. mean 1 Where i is an index that indicates a row of a pixel and j is an index that indicates a column of a pixel and k is an index that indicates a sagittal slice 1 k N where the pixel is located. Iis the 2 D image of the kth slice. Sinitial indicates k values for the initial set e.g. 7 10 and 18 21 of sagittal slices and indicates values that are elements of the following set. M is the resulting mean image. Thus the operation indicated by Equation 1 is performed on a pixel by pixel basis only for the slices that are in the initial set of sagittal slices. Note that I and therefore M is in general larger than the size of the AOI received in step because the purpose of M is to determine where to center an AOI of the size received in step .

In step a band of extreme intensity is determined in the mean image to center an AOI. For example for scan data in which the meniscus is a minimum in intensity as in current MR scan data the extreme is a minimum. In other embodiments the meniscus is associated with a maximum intensity and the extreme is a maximum. As used herein an extreme intensity is a minimum intensity or a maximum intensity. In some embodiments a meniscus is not associated with an extreme intensity and steps and are omitted.

The trace shows how average total pixel intensity in a row varies with row. A minimum occurs at rows near the vertical center of the meniscus. Thus a row near the minimum is selected as a center row of an AOI having the historical size e.g. 100 rows by 180 columns .

In some embodiments to reduce the effects of noisy data or for computational efficiency the mean image M is divided into a number Nof bands W ij 1

In step an area of interest AOI is centered on an extreme row such as a center row of a band of extreme intensity. The subset of the images Iin the area of interest centered on the minimum row or band W is indicated as I.

In some embodiments the scan elements included in a volume of interest VOI are simply the Ifor k Sinitial. However in an illustrated embodiment the full set of sagittal slices is reconsidered for contributing scan elements to the VOI. According to these embodiments method includes step and step .

In step a template is determined based on the average intensity in the pixels in the AOI over the initial set of sagittal slices. For example in an illustrated embodiment step is performed using Equation 3. initial 3 

In step a final set of sagittal slices with k values indicated by Sfinal is determined. The slices in the final set show small deviations in the AOI from the template. Any method may be used to measure the deviation from the template. In an illustrated embodiment a mean square error MSE is used as the measure of deviation. For example in an illustrated embodiment step is performed using Equation 4a and Equation 4b and Equation 4c. 4a and max 4b and if 0.25 then final 4c In other embodiments a different fraction of MSE or a different measure of deviation is used to determine membership in Sfinal.

In step a volume of interest VOI is determined as a union of the AOI from all slices in the final set of sagittal slices. This can be defined in Equation 5a. 5a 

In some embodiments the volume of interest includes just one slice and is identical to an AOI. The term region of interest ROI is used herein to refer to an AOI or VOI or both depending on context.

Meniscal extraction is a process that separates menisci from other structures of the knee after the ROIs have been defined. MR images acquired from different medical centers and vendors may have significant variations in intensities and it is advantageous to make the meniscus extraction adaptive to such intensity variations. In an illustrated embodiment the threshold for the meniscal extraction is adjusted and estimated automatically for each case as indicated by step in .

In step an average intensity is determined in the ROI. For example is determined using Equation 5b. final 5b where Nfinal is the number of slices in the final set of sagittal slices Ni is the number of rows in the AOI e.g. 100 and Nj is the number of columns in the AOI e.g. 180 .

During step a next candidate threshold m 1 N where N is the number of candidate thresholds to be tried is also determined based on . For example for scan data in which the meniscus is a minimum the candidate threshold is an upper threshold that is a fraction less than one of . For scan data in which the meniscus is a maximum the candidate threshold is a lower threshold that is a numeric factor of that may be less than equal to or greater than one times . For scan data in which the meniscus is a middle intensity the candidate threshold is a matched pair of lower and upper candidate thresholds that are each a numeric factor of . In an illustrated embodiment the next candidate threshold is a first upper threshold equal to 0.2 .

In step the pixels within the candidate threshold are determined. For example a binary image is generated from the AOI in each slice of the final set in which each pixel with an intensity within the candidate threshold is given one of two binary values e.g. 1 and each pixel outside the candidate threshold is given a different one of the two binary values e.g. 0 . A pixel intensity is within a threshold as used herein if the intensity is less than or equal to an upper threshold greater than or equal to a lower threshold or in a range of a matched pair of upper and lower thresholds inclusive.

During step objects are also determined in each image of the final set of slices. As used herein an object is a contiguous set of scan elements within the candidate threshold. through are image portions that depict scan elements associated with an object based on a particular threshold value according to an embodiment. depicts an object in which dark pixels are pixels with an intensity within a threshold intensity e.g. below an upper threshold .

As stated above not all objects are meniscus like objects. A meniscus like object is an object that satisfies geometrical constraints for meniscus such as falling within a particular size range or shape range or both. In various other embodiments other geometrical constraints are included such as depth as determined by a number of adjacent slices in which the object appears.

In step objects that fall within a meniscus like size range are determined. Any method may be used to determine a meniscus like size range. In an illustrated embodiment a meniscus like size range is an area between about 5 mm about 50 pixels and about 80 mm about 800 pixels on one sagittal slice. Objects with smaller areas are considered noise and objects with larger areas are considered to be non meniscus structures. The values of the size range are received by the process e.g. during step while receiving historical information using any method known in the art. It is assumed for purposes of illustration that object falls within the meniscus like size range.

In step objects that fall within a meniscus like shape range are determined. Any method may be used to determine a meniscus like shape range. In an illustrated embodiment a meniscus like size range is a range of aspect ratios where an aspect ratio is a ratio of a major axis length divided by a minor axis length. The major axis is the longest dimension of the object and the minor axis is the longest dimension perpendicular to the major axis. In some embodiments the aspect ratio is approximated by the ratio of the major axis and minor axis of a bounding box. The bounding box is the rectangle in row column space that extends from the smallest to largest row number and smallest to largest column number of scan elements in the object. When the object s major axis is aligned with a row or column the aspect ratio of the bounding box is the same as the aspect ratio of object. When not the bounding box aspect ratio is more compact closer to one . shows an object bounding box for object and a box major axis and minor axis . Since object has a major axis that is about parallel to the image rows the aspect ratio of the bounding box is about the same as the aspect ratio of the object .

In some embodiments the major and minor axis length determinations are made simpler by first forming a convex mask for the object. In such embodiments method includes step to form a convex mask from each remaining object that satisfies meniscus like size and shape constraints. A convex mask is a minimum convex shape that encompasses all pixels in the object. A convex mask is one in which every line segment connecting points in the mask is entirely within the mask. depicts a convex mask for object . Any method known in the art may be used to form a convex mask of the object. also depicts a major axis and minor axis of the convex mask. These axis lengths are substantively equal to the major and minor axes of the original object .

It is noted here that in a later step cartilage tissue is to be distinguished from meniscus. This is easily done with a cartilage lower threshold e.g. 0.8 . The convex mask may include pixels that represent cartilage tissue but such pixels can be removed using the cartilage threshold. depicts a revised mask with cartilage removed by removing pixels with intensity above 0.8 . However during step cartilage is not routinely removed. In some embodiments step is omitted while determining the meniscus intensity threshold.

In an illustrated embodiment a meniscus like shape range is an aspect ratio between about 1 and about 6 for the actual major and minor axis or about 1 and about 5 for the bounding box. Objects with other aspect ratios are considered to be non meniscus structures because they are too elongated aspect ratio too large or too compact aspect ratio substantively equal to 1 . The values of the shape range are received by the process e.g. during step while receiving historical information using any method known in the art.

In step the number of meniscus like objects N in the ROI for the given threshold is determined by adding the number of meniscus like objects in each slice over all the slices in the final set as given by Equation 6a. 6a Where N k is the number of meniscus like objects using threshold on the kth slice.

In step it is determined whether the current candidate threshold is less than some maximum candidate threshold e.g. a cartilage threshold about 0.8 . If so another candidate threshold can be tried and control passes to step . In step the index m is incremented by one and the candidate threshold is incremented e.g. by 0.05 in the illustrated embodiment. Control passes back to step and following to determine Nfor the next candidate threshold .

If it is determined in step that the current threshold is greater than or equal to the maximum candidate threshold control passes to step to determine the best of the N candidate thresholds. For example in the illustrated embodiment N is determined using Equation 6a for 12 thresholds N 12 0.20 0.25 . . . 0.75 for m 1 12 respectively.

In step is determined that gives a greatest number of meniscus like objects as expressed in Equation 6b. arg max 6b This value of is the meniscus extraction threshold for the ROI and is associated with index m .

In step the convex masks are determined for the meniscus like objects using meniscus extraction threshold . In some embodiments that include step the convex mask is already determined and are simply retrieved for the selected index m . In some embodiments step is omitted and the convex masks are determined during step for the objects associated with index m on each slice in the final set. In some embodiments step includes removing scan elements associated with cartilage e.g. by removing scan elements with intensities above a cartilage threshold e.g. about 0.8 .

The resulting cartilage removed masks e.g. mask in for the final set of slices constitute a meniscus object portion of the scan data.

Bright areas evident in the masked scan data may be indicative of tear or tear propensity in the meniscus objects in this slice.

Any method may be used to define a tear category or tear score including any statistic of intensity value distribution in the meniscus object portion of the scan data such as mean intensity standard deviation skewness kurtosis alignment or any other property of the intensity values in the portion alone or in combination.

In an illustrated embodiment described in more detail below three categories of tears and two statistics of intensity distribution based on those categories called breakability and degeneracy metrics are defined. A total score combining the two metrics on multiple adjacent slices is also defined. For these definitions a tear threshold score is determined that varies with quadrant of meniscus tissue. In the illustrated embodiment a tear is associated in the historical data with combined scores at or above the predefined thresholds given in Table 1.

The inventors designed two statistics also called metrics to reflect three categories of tears pertinent to the clinical decision to initiate surgery. through are block diagrams that illustrate types of meniscal damage according to an embodiment. depicts Type 1 damage in which a meniscus object includes a compact area of brighter pixels that are not above the cartilage threshold . Type 1 is most commonly seen in adult and elderly individuals and relates to the solidity of the meniscus. depicts Type 2 tear damage in which a meniscus object is divided into two or more separate regions by a linear arrangement of brighter pixels that are not above the cartilage threshold . Type 2 is a tear that breaks the meniscus into multiple pieces. depicts Type 3 tear damage in which a meniscus object is not divided into separate regions by a linear arrangement of brighter pixels that are not above the cartilage threshold . Type 3 the most common type of acute tear is characterized by a linear rent that reaches an articular surface of the meniscus and has the potential to become a type 2 tear if not treated surgically. An articular surface of the meniscus articulates with the cartilage of the tibia or femur. Type 2 and 3 tears are most often seen in young athletes.

Breakability is a measure reflecting a change from the meniscus extraction threshold that when used as a threshold fragments the extracted meniscus object into more than one piece. Breakability is a measure of the similarity to Type 2 and Type 3 tears. A procedure to determine breakability is described in more detail below with respect to step .

Degeneracy is a measure reflecting a change from the meniscus extraction threshold that when used as a threshold significantly changes the portion of the object below the threshold. Degeneracy is a measure of the similarity to Type 1 damage. A procedure to determine degeneracy is described in more detail below with respect to step .

The inventors developed a combined score based on both metrics as described in more detail below. From historical data the inventors determined that most tears occur in the posterior horn of the medial meniscus followed in frequency by tears in the posterior horn of the lateral meniscus. Tears in the anterior quadrants of both medial and lateral menisci are more rare. Using a training set of 10 historical cases 5 positive tears and 5 negative no tears the different tear threshold scores of Table 1 were determined for four meniscus quadrants. Thus in step a particular one of the anatomical quadrants of the meniscus is selected for scoring meniscal tear propensity. In some embodiments the meniscus score is not divided in quadrants and step is omitted or replaced with a different set of anatomical divisions of the meniscus e.g. anterior and posterior only or more than four divisions of the meniscus .

In step a breakability measure is determined based on largest breaking fraction of multiple fractions of the meniscus threshold intensity . As defined herein a breaking fraction fof is one that when f is used as a threshold divides the meniscus object portion into multiple distinct portions called pieces. In other embodiments with meniscus intensities at an intermediate or maximum compared to other tissues different probe numeric factors are used to determine breakability.

For example in an illustrated embodiment the multiple probe fractions fof the meniscus threshold intensity considered to find breaking fractions are five probe fractions p 1 5 descending from 0.7 to 0.3 in steps of 0.1. The smaller the fraction the more likely that the meniscus object will be broken into multiple pieces. The largest fraction that causes the break is the largest breaking fraction. In the illustrated embodiment a score is associated with each fraction as shown in Table 2. In the illustrated embodiment the list of probe fractions begins from 0.7 index p 1 instead of other higher probe fractions e.g. 0.9 0.8 to differentiate the breakability threshold from the meniscus extraction threshold f 1 . The score starts at 90 and not a higher score to put an appropriate weight on the breakability measurement without overemphasizing it. In general a breaking fraction is determined from among a number Np probe fractions f.

Any method may be used to determine if a particular probe fractions divides the meniscus object into multiple pieces. Methods well known in the art for determining if two pixels are connected do not cross a pixel above the threshold include connected component labeling and blob analysis. See for example Gonzalez and Woods 2 Prentice Hall Upper Saddle River N.J. ISBN 0201180758 739 pp 2002. 

The procedure for finding the index p of the largest breaking fraction can be expressed with Equation 7a. arg 2 p 1 Np 7a where Ois a meniscus object on slice k Sfinal and is a counting operation that determines how many pieces the meniscus object Obreaks into when threshold f is applied. The number p is the first index p that causes the meniscus to break or in other words results in O f 2. Thus the largest f f. A breakability score a is defined for the meniscus object Ousing Equation 7b. Breakability score 7b 

In step a degeneracy measure is determined based on decrease in area of the meniscus object portion within a threshold equal to a fraction fof the meniscus extraction threshold for a number Np fractions Np 1. In other embodiments with meniscus intensities at an intermediate or maximum compared to other tissues different probe factors are used to determine degeneracy.

For example in an illustrated embodiment this metric quantifies the rate with which the area of meniscal fragments below a threshold decreases as the threshold is lowered to various fractions of the meniscus intensity threshold. In this embodiment the degeneracy metric is given by Equation 8a and Equation 8b. 8a where A O is the area of a meniscus object O on slice k Sfinal below a threshold . Thus gives the ratio of the area below the probe threshold f to the original area of the meniscus object. Then 2 8b The term 2in Equation 8b gives more weight to a decrease in area attributed to the larger fractions.

If the meniscus extraction fails on a slice the breakability and degeneracy scores are both set to 100. Both the breakability and degeneracy scores of those slices that do not belong to the final set are set to 0.

There are 4 possible combinations of outcomes when these metrics are applied. through are sequences of images that illustrate different types of infrastructure changes with threshold changes according to an embodiment.

In step a weighted sum of multiple degeneracy measures and multiple breakability measures on corresponding adjacent sagittal slices of the scan data are determined. The continuity of meniscal tears from one slice to the next is taken into account while calculating the average breakability and solidity scores for each slice. The inter slice continuity of a positive decision tear happens is an important consideration in calling for a tear in the final decision. Tears that run through multiple slices have higher chances of being true tears than the tears seen only on a single slice. The final score of a single slice is therefore derived by using a weighted average over its neighboring slices in some embodiments.

In an illustrated embodiment the weighted sum bold at slice k is given in Equation 9a and Equation 9b using three adjacent slices in Sfinal. 0.25 0.5 0.25 for 11final 9a 0.25 0.5 0.25 for 11final 9a 

In other embodiments more slices or different weights or both are used in defining the weighted sum. In some embodiments a weighted sum is not performed and step is omitted.

In step a combined score based on both breakability and degeneracy is determined. Because breakability and degeneracy metrics capture information about specific types of tears if is significantly larger than in any given slice this implies that the tear may be a type 1 or type 2 tear. If is significantly larger than type 1 damage is more likely. If great enough type 1 damage may lead to an abnormal morphology of the meniscus and may indicate the necessity for surgery.

In the illustrated embodiment a combined score is determined using Equation 10a Equation 10b and Equation 10c. if 1.5 then 10a if 1.5 then 10a else 2 10c 

In other embodiments different rules are used to combine the breakability and degeneracy metrics. In some embodiments a combined score is not determined and step is omitted.

In step it is determined whether the score combined or individual exceeds a tear threshold score. If not then control passes to step to determine a no tear result or decision. Control then passes to step described below. If it is determined in step that the score exceeds a tear threshold score then control passes to step to determine a tear result or decision. Control then also passes to step . For example in the illustrated embodiment it is determined during step whether the combined score is above 70 for a posterior medial meniscus object on several slices. If so control passes to step to make a tear decision.

In some embodiments a human analyst determines a tear no tear result based on individual or combined scores and steps and are omitted.

In step it is determined whether there is another meniscus quadrant for which to determine tear propensity. If so control passes back to step to select the next anatomical division in the VOI such as a posterior lateral meniscus quadrant and determine its tear propensity. If there are no further anatomical divisions control passes to step described above to present the meniscus or its tear propensity or both to a user such as a surgeon.

As used herein a tear propensity is any measure of the propensity of meniscus tissue to tear whether the measure is an intensity or binary image in a meniscus object an individual breakability or degeneracy metric some other statistic a metric for a single slice or weighted average among multiple adjacent slices or a combined score or a penultimate tear no tear decision.

In the illustrated embodiment CAD presentation includes a case selection panel a slice selection panel a slice image panel an AOI image panel a meniscus objects panel a sensitivity report panel a slice diagnosis panel and a case diagnosis panel .

The case selection panel includes display elements that indicate the case e.g. subject and scanning device and time the rows and columns of each slice that make up the AOI and identifiers for the slices in the final set.

The slice selection panel includes display control elements that allow a user to navigate from one sagittal slice to another in the case and to exit the case and CAD program.

The slice image panel includes an image display element that presents the current sagittal slice selected in panel .

The meniscus objects panel includes display elements that indicate a bounding box for each meniscus like object in the AOI displayed in panel . Pixels inside the bounding box but outside the convex mask are blank indicated for example by a uniform blue color as are pixels inside the convex mask but above the cartilage threshold. The remaining pixels are color coded to distinguish some or all of the Np different probe fractions of the meniscus intensity threshold. This enables a user to gain intuition about the breakability and degeneracy measures.

The sensitivity report panel includes display elements that indicate historical performance of the CAD system in detecting meniscal tears as described in more detail in the next section.

The slice diagnosis panel includes display elements that indicate breakability and degeneracy metrics for the two objects one anterior and one posterior on the current slice and gives the combined score as low propensity for tear moderate propensity for tear high propensity for tear for the meniscus objects on the current slice.

The case diagnosis panel includes display elements that indicate the tear no tear decision normal tear for the four meniscus quadrants based on all the slices in the final set.

The performance of the illustrated embodiment was determined in a study that was Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act compliant and approved by an Institutional Review Board. A pre existing report and image repository in the inventors institution was retrospectively searched for the keywords meniscal tear horn knee and arthroscopy in individuals of all ages and both sexes who underwent MR imaging between October 2003 and July 2006. The resulting group of 910 cases was divided into those with positive and negative meniscal tear results based on MR findings. For those with positive tear findings in MR data arthroscopic results were sought in the medical record to determine a false positive rate. All MR examinations were performed before scheduled surgery. Those with negative reports were reviewed by an experienced radiologist. Through this process 17 cases of meniscal tears and 23 cases without meniscal tears were identified 19 males ages 15 61 y 21 females ages 30 73 y . This set was used to evaluate the system . In addition a group of 5 positive and 5 negative cases were identified from the 910 cases and used as training dataset in the CAD development phase to determine tear threshold scores in Table 2.

To evaluate the performance of the illustrated CAD system 2 board certified radiologists were asked to perform diagnosis by reading the image series for each of 40 subjects and to render diagnostic decisions on the presence or absence of tears in the 4 meniscus quadrants. Table 3 shows their detection results and the corresponding sensitivity and specificity scores. Sensitivity is true positive detections divided by a sum of true positives and false positives as determined by a gold standard e.g. surgical intervention . Specificity is true negative detections divided by a sum of true negatives and false positives as determined by a gold standard.

The CAD system and the 2 radiologists were found to have the same sensitivity in detection of medial posterior tears the most common meniscal injuries. The CAD system performed as well or slightly worse than radiologists in lateral posterior tear detection. The average sensitivities weighted by the number of samples of the CAD system and radiologist 1 and 2 were 83.87 74.19 and 80.65 respectively. This shows good sensitivity of the CAD system.

A significant number of negative samples were seen for each region. The average specificities weighted by the number of samples of the CAD system radiologist 1 and 2 are 75.78 78.91 and 85.16 . This shows good specificity of the CAD system The specificity value of CAD is within expectations because most CAD applications are designed and trained to put more cost penalty on missing the abnormality a false negative than issuing false positives.

The unsupervised meniscus extraction and tear detection demonstrated in the CAD system implements a series of custom designed extraction and threshold techniques that are shown in a small sample study to be closely correlated with radiologists identification of meniscus objects and associated tears. By incorporating anatomical knowledge into the basic design of image processing techniques in this CAD system resulting overall performance in sensitivity was close to that of radiologists. Improvements in specificity are anticipated. The development of this CAD approach shows promise for increasing radiologist productivity and confidence improving patient outcomes and applying more sophisticated CAD algorithms to orthopedic imaging tasks.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man made variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

