---

title: Enterprise space management and restacking
abstract: Methods and systems for performing enterprise space management and for performing building restack operations are provided herein. A space management database system prepares and exports space management data for manual restacking by a user. The database system groups records by zone or by a commonality such as being located within a common divisible location, and exports the data in an editable format, e.g., as a spreadsheet. After a user edits the restack data to indicate a move within an organization's space under management, the data is imported back into the space management database, and then applied against one or more future planning periods to indicate a move of a cost center to or from a location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566335&OS=08566335&RS=08566335
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08566335
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention relates generally to enterprise level management of real estate office space and similar inventory. More specifically the invention provides methods and systems for reorganizing or restacking an organization s workforce within the organization s real estate and space under management.

When an organization has under 10 000 square feet sf of office space a single individual can typically manage the space often without any technical assistance. For example the individual can manage the space and who is working in various areas of the space using something as simple as a notepad our handwritten ledger. However large corporations and other large organizations often have hundreds of thousands of square feet of office space or more to house their organization s employees retail or consumer facing operations corporate management divisions and other support infrastructure. Some large organizations have as much as two billion square feet or more of real estate and or space under management. Naturally when so much office space is under management it becomes difficult if not impossible for an individual or individuals to manage the office space without technical assistance.

As a result of this need for automated management tools software tools have been developed to help manage office space. One known software application CenterStone Software by Manhattan Software Inc. of Milford Mass. provides a set of space management tools focused on spatial management of the workplace. These tools include tools for how space is planned from planning through commissioning utilized changed MAC moves adds changes owned or leased and analyzed and the assets that are associated with each space. More information is available at www dot centerstonesoft dot com.

However because of inherent limitations and the limited capabilities of known solutions it is very difficult and tedious although not impossible to develop theoretical models of future occupancy driving higher utilization of space involving moving a subset of an organization s employees from one location to another either within the same building or another also known as restacking. That is when a division or department moves locations e.g. from one floor of a building to another or to an entirely new building or location the space management software or database must be updated to reflect the new location s of the relevant division s department s employee s etc. There is presently no convenient way to do this other than by selecting each individual atomic location i.e. office conference room cubicle and or workstation and reassigning each atomic location from one subdivision of the organization to another or to release the locations due to the organization no longer using that location.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

To overcome limitations in the prior art described above and to overcome other limitations that will be apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification an aspect of the present invention provides a method for restacking space management data such as building data. To prepare the data for export a space management database groups records corresponding to atomic locations based on a commonality of location and optionally further based on financial assignment departmental assignment and or occupancy status of each atomic location . The restack data is exported for restacking by a user e.g. the user manually edits the data in spreadsheet format to indicating one or more moves within the organization s space under management. The edited restack data is then reimported back into the space management database and applied against one or more planning periods for one or more locations as defined by the edited restack data.

For example a user can add or delete rows in the spreadsheet to add or remove cost centers from a building a floor of a building and or a zone on a floor of a building. The user can further edit the square footage used by a cost center by planning period e.g. monthly to indicate when during a given year a move is scheduled or will occur. A user can also split existing square footage by adding a new row and dividing the square footage between of an existing row between the existing row and the new row for one or more planning periods.

Another aspect of the invention automates the aforementioned method by storing computer executable instructions on a computer readable storage medium that are readable and executable by a processing system the user edits are still performed manually however by the user editing the spreadsheet data using a program such as Microsoft Excel . .

Another aspect of the invention provides a data structure stored on one or more computer readable storage media where the data structure is usable for expediting a building restack process. The data structure includes at least four hierarchically nested rows each storing data corresponding to a building a floor a zone or a cost center. Each row corresponding to a building corresponds to one or more nested rows corresponding to a floor. Each row corresponding to a floor corresponds to one or more nested rows corresponding to a zone. At least one row corresponding to a zone corresponds to one or more nested rows corresponding to a cost center. At least each row corresponding to a cost center includes multiple planning period data fields each corresponding to a different restack period of a planning year. The multiple planning period data fields include one planning period data field per restack period.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Organization Enterprise any group or entity of any kind that rents leases owns or otherwise uses real estate for purposes to further the goals of the organization enterprise. Organizations enterprises may include corporations associations firms businesses charities hospitals educational institutions clubs groups or any other association of multiple people for a common goal.

Portfolio Space Under Management the total real estate inclusive of office space residing on the real estate that an organization uses and or has control over.

Subdivision any subset of an organization that is characterized by a common goal or purpose. Subdivisions may include departments divisions groups subsidiaries teams and the like.

Atomic location any location which cannot be divided into further locations. For example offices workstations cubicles and conference rooms may be considered atomic locations whereas floors building wings buildings and campuses would not be considered atomic locations.

Divisible location any location which can be further divided into smaller divisible or atomic locations. For example floors building wings buildings and campuses would be considered divisible locations whereas offices workstations cubicles and indivisible conference rooms would not be considered divisible locations. Divisible locations include all the divisible locations and atomic locations underneath them. For example a building includes further divisible locations i.e. each floor of the building and also includes each atomic location within each floor of that building.

Zone An area of useable square footage on an individual floor with a unique usage type and or tenant. Any floor must include at least one zone but a single floor can include multiple zones.

Restack Restacking the process or activity of reorganizing one or more divisible locations within an organization s space under management.

Aspects of the invention may be used to reassign restack an organization s employees members and or subdivisions from one divisible location to another. One or more aspects of the invention may be implemented in a system architecture such as that illustrated in other system architectures may of course be used . In a client computer connects via a network with a space management database or database server . Client computer may be any known or conventional data processing device now known or developed in the future such as a desktop computer laptop or other portable device and the like. Network may be a public or private network such as the Internet corporate intranet local area network wide area network personal area network and the like or a combination of multiple networks using appropriate security and authentication technologies to control access to space management information and data. Space management database stores all location data for space management purposes for one or more organizations e.g. indicating which subdivision s use which atomic and or divisible locations. For illustrative purposes the following examples are limited to space management for a single organization. Alternative system architectures may be used and the space management database may be included or stored within a memory of computer .

One or more aspects of the invention may be embodied in computer usable data and computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other device. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk optical disk removable storage media solid state memory RAM and the like. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In addition the functionality may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like. Particular data structures may be used to more effectively implement one or more aspects of the invention and such data structures are contemplated within the scope of computer executable instructions and computer usable data described herein.

Using the above system architecture or another system architecture an individual may perform space management using a method similar to that illustrated in . specifically illustrates a method for restacking real estate by moving a subdivision of an organization from one divisible location to another. In step a user requests or indicates a desire to restack a particular location or to move a subdivision from one location to another. With reference to this request may include the user selecting an option on a web page through which the user performs space management. As a result of the user request in step database server parses the space management data combines atomic locations into their respective divisible locations and exports the data in the divisible location format. That is atomic locations are rolled up and grouped into their respective divisible locations and exported at the divisible location level. Alternatively the data may instead be rolled up into zones rather than into atomic locations. Each zone may include one or more atomic locations which may be edited by the user once exported. The data may be exported in any editable format e.g. as a spreadsheet XML document and the like and may include data corresponding to each rolled up grouped divisible location as further illustrated below.

In step a user edits the divisible location information e.g. by reassigning subdivision codes for one or more divisible locations in the data set. The user uploads the edited data back to the space management database in step and in step the space management database updates divisible locations and atomic locations within the edited divisible locations with the new subdivision information along with any other information edited by the user. The method illustrated in provides a general overview of the inventive method which is discussed in more detail below with reference to specific embodiments and illustrative aspects of the invention.

According to aspect of the invention Manhattan Software s CenterStone software may be used to export data regarding space management and facility usage into a spreadsheet format. The spreadsheet format may subsequently be used to restack a building or multiple buildings or a subset of a building within the organization s portfolio. The restacking by spreadsheet allows the organization to model future space assignments and prospectively allocate financial resources by subdivision by including future time periods in the spreadsheet by which the organization can allocate space. In one example the spreadsheet might include monthly data for a fiscal year thereby allowing the organization to move a subdivision from one divisible location to another divisible location in the middle of the fiscal year as further described below.

With reference to there is a defined process that may be followed for the creation configuration management and use of a Planning Database for a given year. A Planning Database is created to correspond to a fiscal year and there is preferably only one Planning Database per fiscal year. Planning Databases are created from a snapshot of an Active Database at some time prior to the commencement of the Planning Database fiscal year. For example if the Planning Database is created six months in advance of a fiscal year there would be a total of 18 plan periods within the Planning Database for that fiscal year i.e. one month for each month leading up to the fiscal year being planned and one month for each month in the fiscal year being planned. illustrates the lifecycle of a Planning Database along with the overlap between Planning Databases.

The process of creating configuring managing and using a planning database will now be described with reference to referred to together as . The 2008 Plan year is used for illustrative purposes within the diagrams and explanations provided herein. Initially in step a backup of the active database is created. In step the backup database is copied restored as a Planning Database .

Once the backup of the Active Database is restored to the new Planning Database the As Built in the Planning Database contains the basis for the plan. The As Built refers to the Active Database and includes the data representing the current space allocation for the organization i.e. which subdivision s is are located in each divisible and or atomic location zone and the like. That is the active database contains data only up to but not including the fiscal year for which the planning database will be used. In step the system runs a Stored Procedure against the Planning Database to create the Plan Periods. Stored Procedure checks the name of the Database that it is being run against and makes sure it meets any applicable naming conventions to prevent being run against the wrong database.

The stored procedure then generates the 18 Periods as Move Phases within the Planning Database i.e. 07 2007 thru 12 2008 in this example . A move phase planning period or restack period as used herein refers to an allocatable period of time for budgeting and allocation. That is any specific subdivision of the organization may have distinct space and financial allocations as defined by each particular move phase based upon the corresponding locations and atomic locations assigned and captured in that specific Move Phase defined for the database. Thus in this example each Move Phase is one month. However in other embodiments the Move Phase may be defined as one week two weeks month 2 months and the like. A move is then considered to occur at the end of one Move Phase and prior to the next Move Phase.

Once the applicable plan periods move phases have been created in step the system populates each plan period with applicable layout data in order to infer initial allocations from the As Built within any of the Plan Periods and to accept Planning changes without having to make changes to each period individually. That is because a planning change impacts the period that has been changed as well as all the subsequent Periods in step the system populates each plan period with the initially inferred information. The Stored Procedure that populates the plan periods identifies buildings that have not already been populated in each of the plan periods so that the Stored Procedure can be started and stopped at will.

While the SP may be started and stopped at will according to one embodiment all currently operational buildings must be propagated before the system is ready to use. Stated another way propagation might be required to be complete before manipulation of individual buildings can begin. The measurements calculations computing common areas shared space square footage and final allocated square footage are copied after all operational buildings and their associated floors are propagated to the plan periods.

The first six periods following the As Built in the Planning Database may be intended to capture reactive restacks as well as other major changes that would impact the following plan periods like new building acquisitions or disposals. The last twelve periods following the Forecast Periods in the Planning Database are not different from the prior Forecast Periods in that all subsequent Plan Periods take on the information from the prior period unless a change has been made. These Twelve Periods may be used as the basis for an annual occupancy budget and once established may be compared to actual occupancy once that occupancy period is realized. For the purpose of clarity all 18 Periods are referred to as Planning Periods. The distinction between the two subsets of Periods is made for illustrative purposes only and not because there is necessarily any difference between any of the 18 Plan Periods in this example.

Prior to exporting the data to spreadsheet format for restacking the following rules apply when adding removing and maintaining Sites and Buildings within the Planning Database 

ADD A site or building may only be added to the As Built. When one is added it is propagated to the 18 plan periods.

MODIFY When any attribute or User Defined Attribute on a site or building changes it is propagated to all subsequent planning periods.

Example 2 If a change is made to a building in Period then the change is propagated to the subsequent plan periods 8 18 .

Example 3 When a building is changed from non operational to operational in the As Built the building is propagated to all plan periods where applicable.

DELETE Sites and buildings should never be deleted. The system should identify buildings as non operational or similar for the plan periods in which the building should not be used.

MEASUREMENTS In addition the measurements calculations computing common areas shared space square footage and final allocated square footage are run on the affected periods for the site or building in question.

OFFLINE IMPORTS site and building Offline imports follow the same rules as above. The organization preferably uses offline imports sparingly because any existing buildings that are imported may delete all changes made in plan. The organization should use offline imports preferably to add sites and buildings to the plan portfolio. During the planning process a propagated building should not be changed to a different site.

INITIAL DATA PROPAGATION When the planning DB is setup this will continue to work as designed in the Functional Specification that means all operational buildings will be propagated. Any non operational buildings will not. If a building is changed from non operational to operational afterwards then the propagation stored procedure will take over see MODIFY above and the building will be propagated to all periods.

Prior to exporting the data to spreadsheet format for restacking the following rules apply when adding removing and maintaining Floors within the Planning Database 

ADD A drawing based floor can only be added to the As Built. When one is added it is propagated to the 18 plan periods. For the period one wants the floor to be active add the drawing to the floor for the period in question. The drawing will be propagated to the subsequent move phases. For non drawing based buildings floors can be added to any plan period through the non drawing based UI. Any floors without drawings will be absent from plan allocations.

DELETE Floors can be deleted from any plan period. When they are they will be deleted from all subsequent plan periods.

Using the above features in step a user may make modifications to the planning database to keep the planning database up to date based on changes to the active database i.e. actual changes to space allocation that may affect the planning period . In step the user s may make modifications to the planning database to make plan changes i.e. changes to the plan for the fiscal year for which the planning database was created. Step contemplates making changes to the planning database using the user interface of the enterprise real estate software. However beginning at step another aspect of the invention allows for restacking by editing an exported data file then reimporting the restacked data back into the planning database.

In one embodiment an organization may use commercially available spreadsheet software as the primary tool for restacking building s . In step the organization identifies the building s to be restacked and in step exports the data from the enterprise real estate software to a structured XML file for manipulation as a spreadsheet. Because in practice it is expected that approximately 200 buildings or more may be restacked during a typical planning cycle and due to the fact that restacks typically are assigned to planning personnel based on region and potential complications that could arise during the import of a manually manipulated file the concept of building restack groups may be used. A building restack group is simply a group of buildings that are exported imported to from the spreadsheet format together. The building restack groups replace the practice of parsing a spreadsheet file into separate spreadsheet files for manipulation by various planning personnel. Following are two user interfaces that are included within a building restack management console. The building restack console may be used by any planning personnel or administrator of the organization.

The organization s planning administrator may create one or more building restack groups which can each be reviewed in a new building restack group list user interface. Once one or more building restack groups is are created one or more buildings may be added to each group also in step . The addition of a building to a building restack group may initiate the population of the building restack tables from building information stored in the As Built portfolio aggregated by Floor Zone Occupancy Status and Company Cost Center. The process of adding a building to a building restack group should not impact the As Built or any of the planning periods. A building preferably cannot be included in more than one building restack group.

Next in step any of the organization s planning administrator can export a building restack group to a structured XML file. The export of building restack groups may be initiated independently of one another or in a batch and the date of the last export is stored with each building restack group. The structure and format of the exported file should conform to a format usable by the spreadsheet software or other software through which the file will be manipulated to define the restacking of the properties defined in the file. A dialog box presented during the export process may allow the planning administrator to save the export file to a location of his or her choosing.

The organization s planning administrator may distribute the export file to the appropriate planning partner for restack. That is because the process of restacking a building involves the manipulation of existing departmental assignments designated in various Figures as Co CC and occupancy status combinations over the 18 Plan Periods the planning partner e.g. an individual from the subdivision s affected by the restack may be in the best position to perform all or part of the restack. New departmental assignments and occupancy status combinations can be created within zones and then can be removed. However Buildings Floors Common Areas Shared Areas and Zones should not be altered or removed because changing these aspects will impact key elements of the measurement calculations computing common areas shared space square footage and final allocated square footage.

In step after the spreadsheet has been edited to reflect the desired restacking the organization s planning administrator retrieves the spreadsheet file s from the planning partners and saves it them to the appropriate XML format to import back into the enterprise real estate software building restacking tables. The import process may verify that any existing zones included in the original export are included in the import file without any new ones being present. Should there be zones missing or extra ones present these zones are identified and logged and the import might not be committed. In addition to the zone validation Company and Cost Center Co CC assignment and occupancy status values may be validated at the time of import as well.

In step the system imports the building restack data back into the enterprise real estate software via the building restack group management console and propagates the data into the applicable planning periods. The building restack group user interface may compare calculated totals versus imported totals on a building by building basis. Based on how accurate the data is following manual restack within the spreadsheet the organization planning administrator may choose to re export the building restack group to the spreadsheet for further correction and re import. That is the import process might not require square footage to be correct.

Propagating the restack information to the appropriate planning periods begins with the selection of a Start Period. For example with reference to a user may use user interface to select applicable planning periods and import the restack data from the spreadsheet file. The user selects the start period and building s using input controls respectively. Each input control may include a drop down list radio button s calendar text entry box or the like as desired. Using user interface a Start Period is specified for each building included in a building restack group. The start period designates the initial period that the buildings are replaced with restacked information. All subsequent periods to the start period are then populated with the restack data. For Example a Start Period 01 2008 for a building means that Periods 07 2007 through 12 2007 will contain the old information and Periods 01 2008 thru 12 2008 are populated with the restacked data. One or more buildings can then be pushed to the planning periods at a time upon user activation of import control .

Validation of the restack data may be performed during the Push of restack data to the planning periods. For example each aggregate space should have a valid Company and Cost Center assignment and occupancy status. Errors may be logged and the restack information might not be committed if one or more errors occur. The process of pushing restack data into the Start Period and all subsequent Periods involves clearing structural unit information existing floors zones spaces and recreating the necessary objects based on the restack information. Once a restacked building has been pushed to one or more planning periods the building preferably cannot be moved to a different building restack group.

Finally in step the system determines the space allocation measurements based upon the restacked data now stored in one or more planning periods. Additional aspects of the invention are described in further detail below.

With reference to window may be used to add edit building restack groups. For example a user may select a Group ID to edit the buildings included within the selected group or may select NEW button to add a new building restack group. Each building restack group may include identification of each building within that group a description of the group and an indication of the person responsible for restacking the group among other information. The remaining information shown in window may be calculated from or based on the data associated with each particular group.

The building restack group window may be accessed from a link on an intranet or managed web page of the organization that is presented to the user following authentication. Form lists all the building restack groups and may be administered by one or more persons e.g. the organization s planning administrator. The form may include a grid of information that can be scrolled once the list exceeds a visible number of records. Each column is sortable by clicking on the column header alternating between ascending and descending sort each time clicked. Records can only be sorted by a single column at a time.

Editing a group or adding a new group may be performed using a user interface similar to window shown in . The building restack group management form may be used to manage the restack process for a subset of buildings. Form may include at least three distinct sections 1 the building restack group metadata and operations section 2 the building search selection and assignment section and 3 the building restack operation section . The data grid that contains assigned buildings may grow to a predetermined number of records and then scroll beyond those records.

The Group ID may be a system defined unique index value. Group Description is a description of the group entered by a user. Assigned To represents the person or group responsible for the restack of that group. No. Buildings is a system calculated value based on buildings assigned to that building restack group. The Bldgs NOT Balanced represents the total number of buildings in the group where the calculated actual total does not equal the imported actual total. The Bldgs Pushed to Plan represents the total number of buildings where the Last Push Date field is not blank. Plan Start Period represents the first plan period where restack data will be pushed to when the data is imported from the spreadsheet. Other fields are self explanatory.

Various controls on form may be used to perform various functions. SAVE button may save the building restack group for future use. CLOSE button may close the form while saving any edits. CANCEL button may close the form without saving any edits. DELETE button may delete the building restack group. Upon activation of the EXPORT button the system generates and exports a file usable by an external spreadsheet program as described herein e.g. as performed by step above. Activation of IMPORT button results in a user query for a file location and then imports the edited spreadsheet file containing the restack information. Activation of the PUSH button results in the restack data for one or more selected Buildings to be copied to the applicable planning periods. Activation of RESTORE button causes buildings that have been restacked and pushed to planning periods to be restored to the original non restack data stored in the As Built or subsequent periods containing changes. Activation of the REMOVE button causes selected buildings to be removed from a building restack group if they have not yet been pushed to the planning periods. Buildings that have restacked data pushed to planning periods can be restored and then removed if desired. In some embodiments a building can only belong to a single building restack group.

In one embodiment of the invention the spreadsheet format used complies with the commercially available spreadsheet software. The file that is exported from the building restack group management console may be saved as an XML spreadsheet which is then readable and usable by the spreadsheet software. The XML file is then used by planning partners to perform building restacks. The structure of the data columns and rows may be defined as shown in tables 1 and 2 below.

As used above Hierarchy may refer to an organization s internal classification structure of cost centers or departments. One illustrative hierarchy may include ten levels in the hierarchy each level referred to as a dot 1 dot 2 dot and the like . Unit Status in one embodiment may include Occupied OCC Vacant Big Deal VBD Vacant Client Committed VCC Vacant Disposable VDP Vacant LT VLT Vacant Landlord Issues VLS Vacant Non Disposable VND Vacant Pending Classification VPC Vacant Reserved for Backfill VRB Vacant Closed Transaction VCT Vacant BD2 Space VB2 .

Table 2 defines the structure of the data rows with the XML spreadsheet template file. The template contains summation rows to facilitate the planning process. The exported file may optionally be saved with the summation rows hidden. Depending on the preference of the planner these rows can remain hidden or unhidden. The summation rows are simply for reference and might not impact the import process regardless of whether they are hidden or unhidden. All data rows contain all necessary information for reference purposes even if the summation rows are hidden. In one embodiment of the invention the zone must be unique i.e. identified as belonging to a particular floor and building. The building summation row might not be populated for buildings that have more than 30 floors due to a limitation in the commercially available spreadsheet software.

An illustrative restack process will now be illustrated with reference to and . referred to together as collectively represent an illustrative snapshot of the first 38 rows of a spreadsheet exported according to an embodiment of the invention described herein with columns E G hidden because they represent merely descriptive data of the complex name address and city. As illustrated in row building level information is shaded a first color or texture e.g. light blue. As illustrated in rows and floor level information is shaded in a second color or texture e.g. light green. As illustrated in rows and zone level information is shaded in a third color or texture e.g. light yellow. Zone location information remains unshaded. Zones may refer to divisible or atomic locations e.g. as illustrated in column AD which indicates that some zones include one space and some zones include more than one space.

Rows are used for illustration in this example and these rows have been enclosed in a broken line bounding box for easy identification in . Rows illustrate that the first floor col. I includes zone A0A0 col. P which comprises 20 074 square feet col. Q . Rows further illustrate that the first floor is presently split between two Co CC Cost Centers i.e. XXX XXXXXXX and XXX YYYYYYY each of which occupies one of the two spaces on the first floor. The 240 CC occupies 17 338 sf cell AF whereas the 006 CC occupies 2 736 sf cell AF .

While the above illustration is simple insofar as only one space on one floor has been restacked more complex restacking operations are also possible. For example with respect to a zone may be reassigned from one subdivision to multiple subdivisions during one planning period for some period of time and then reassigned wholly to one of the multiple subdivisions during a second planning period. referred to together as collectively illustrates that the zone corresponding to row is presently assigned to Co CC XXX VVVVVVV. In referred to together as the user has adjusted the data by inserting two new rows immediately subsequent to row i.e. new rows and and has split the zone from row among two new cost centers XXX TTTTTTT and XXX RRRRRRR each of which will be occupying 1 161 square feet of the zone beginning in January 2009. The user has further indicated that beginning in July 2009 cost center XXX TTTTTTT will occupy all 2 332 square feet of the zone. This it is apparent that zones having multiple spaces may be split among existing cost centers split among existing and new cost centers or moved completely to new cost centers. In addition restacking may be performed over multiple planning periods and are not limited to restacking during only a single planning period. The use of XXX XXXXXXX is for illustrative purposes only. Cost centers may differ despite being represented generically as XXX XXXXXXX.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

