---

title: Plasma discharge self-cleaning filtration system
abstract: The present invention is directed to a novel method for cleaning a filter surface using a plasma discharge self-cleaning filtration system. The method involves utilizing plasma discharges to induce short electric pulses of nanoseconds duration at high voltages. These electrical pulses generate strong Shockwaves that disintegrate and dislodge particulate matter located on the surface of the filter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784657&OS=08784657&RS=08784657
owner: Drexel University
number: 08784657
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080807
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2008 072502 filed Aug. 7 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 954 479 filed Aug. 7 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The subject matter of the present application was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. DE FC26 06NT42724 awarded by the Department of Energy the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this subject matter.

The present invention relates to plasma systems and in particular to the use of plasma for a self cleaning filtration system.

Filtration is a process of removing contaminants from a stream of either gas or liquid. Most liquid filtration methods use a pump located beneath a tank to feed a liquid such as water through tubular filters or bag filters before passing into a liquid reservoir. With continued use the filter will slowly accumulate unwanted solids resulting in a decrease in the flow rate due to the increased pressure drop caused by the accumulated solids on the surface of the filter.

When the filter surface is significantly clogged causing a significant reduction in fluid flow the filter should be either cleaned or replaced. Such a maintenance procedure however can be costly. During the procedure the filtration system must be stopped resulting in lost production. Additionally the maintenance costs for labor and replacement filters are typically expensive.

Most traditional self cleaning filters use a backwash method which reverses the direction of water flow during the cleaning phase. The backward flow dislodges deposits on the filter surface and removes the contaminants from the filter system. One of the drawbacks of this backwash method is the consequential waste of clean water used to clean the filters. Additionally suitable piping arrangements can become unnecessarily complicated in order to accommodate the backwash flow. A backwash concept may not be practical for numerous filtration systems such as plants which utilize high flow rates in light of the need for large pipe diameters and large quantities of clean water for the backwash to be effective.

The present invention is directed to cleaning a filter surface using a plasma discharge generated in a filter apparatus. The filter apparatus has chamber with a filter mesh. The apparatus also has an inlet for unfiltered liquid one outlet for filtered liquid and a second outlet for filtered particles. An electrode is placed in a position proximate to the filter mesh. A potential of short duration is applied to the electrode causing a plasma discharge. The plasma discharge induces electric pulses preferably of duration in the nanosecond time scale at high voltages. The electric pulses vaporize a portion of the water surrounding the electrode generating shock waves that act upon such as disintegrating or dislodging the particles collected on the filter mesh. The dislodged or disintegrated particles travel out of the apparatus through the particle outlet stream.

In one embodiment a method of cleaning a filtration system is disclosed. An electric potential is applied to an electrode resulting in a plasma discharge. The plasma discharge induces an electric pulse at a high voltage. The electric pulse vaporizes a portion of water generating a shockwave. The shockwave travels to a filter mesh thereby dislodging or disintegrating at least a portion of filtered material from the wire mesh.

In another embodiment a self cleaning filter apparatus is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a chamber having one inlet and two outlets. The inlet is configured to allow unfiltered liquid into the chamber of the apparatus. One outlet is configured to allow filtered liquid to exit the chamber while the other outlet is configured to allow filtered particles to exit the chamber. To filter the liquid the apparatus may utilize various filtering mechanisms. In the present example the apparatus has a filter mesh constructed from metal or ceramic. The filter mesh is configured to trap at least a portion of the particles to be filtered out of the unfiltered liquid. The apparatus also has one or more electrodes placed in the chamber. When an appropriate potential is applied to an electrode a plasma discharge is created. The plasma discharge induces an electric pulse that vaporizes a portion of the liquid surrounding the electrode. The shockwave travels to the filter mesh and dislodges or disintegrates at least a portion of filtered particles which in turn flow out of the particle outlet.

In a further embodiment a self cleaning filtration system is described. The system comprises a filter apparatus having a filter mesh for filtering particles from an unfiltered liquid stream and an electrode. The electrode is in electrical communication with a power supply that is configured to output an electrical potential. The electrical potential is suitable to cause a plasma discharge to occur around the electrode. The plasma discharge causes an electric pulse that dislodges or disintegrates particles filtered from the unfiltered liquid streams.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the subject matter. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the subject matter. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the subject matter without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the subject matter and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this subject matter.

The present invention is directed to novel self cleaning filtration systems and a method to clean a filter surface using a liquid plasma discharge. A schematic diagram of an embodiment of the self cleaning filtration system of the present invention is shown in . Filter apparatus has outer casing which is configured and shaped to create filter volume . A liquid to be filtered is introduced at inlet into filter volume . The direction of flow of the liquid through inlet and filter volume may be changed to optimize the filtering of the liquid. For example particulate removal may be optimized by introducing the unfiltered liquid at high tangential flow rates which is highly effective at carrying away particulate matter and alleviating fouling on the surface of a filter .

In one example during normal operation of the filtering system at least 90 of the flow passes through the filter and less than 10 of the flow is tangential more preferably less than 5 of the flow is tangential. The self cleaning filtration system using a liquid plasma discharge may be periodically implemented during the normal filtering process. The liquid plasma discharge filtration system may also be employed for designated maintenance or cleaning stages. During this cleaning stage all or most of the flow through the filtration system may be tangential flow having tangential flow rates of about 0.1 10 m s more preferably about 0.5 2 m s. Such tangential flow is optional and typically does not need to be used but may prove desirable to supplement plasma discharge during the normal filter operations for certain difficult cleaning situations. The present invention may also be applied to a multi stage filtration system to further enhance particulate removal such as the one shown in below.

Filtered particles exit filter volume at outlet and the filtered liquid exits filter volume at outlet . Filter apparatus also comprises filter located near at least one electrode shown is electrode in filter volume . Electrode is attached to a power source not shown . During operation contaminated liquid enters through inlet . Particles are filtered out of the liquid through the use of filter . When a suitable electric potential is applied to electrode a plasma discharge is generated at or around electrode tip . The plasma discharge induces an electric pulse that vaporizes a portion of the liquid surrounding electrode tip creating a shockwave. The shockwave travels to the filter and dislodges or disintegrates at least a portion of filtered particles collected on filter . The dislodged particles in turn flow out through outlet . Filtered liquid continues to flow out of filter apparatus through outlet .

The filter may be constructed from any suitable filtration material. In one example the material is selected from a metal such a stainless steel a carbon containing material or a non metallic medium such as a ceramic. For ceramic filters it is useful in some embodiments of the invention that such ceramic filters include a metallic coating on the surface of the filter exposed to the unfiltered liquid to enhance the performance of the cleaning system of the present invention. Filter may also be configured to have any configuration any desired number of pores and any desired pore size. In a preferred embodiment the filter surface is configured to have a metal mesh structure.

Electrode may be located on the side of the filter exposed to the contaminated solution as shown in thereby enabling self cleaning of the filter . The electrode may also be placed in an alternate location as shown in . Constructed in a manner similar to filter apparatus of filter apparatus of has outer casing which is configured and shaped to create filter volume . A liquid to be filtered is introduced at inlet into filter volume . Filtered particles exit filter volume at outlet and the filtered liquid exits filter volume at outlet . Filter apparatus also comprises filter located near at least one electrode shown is electrode in filter volume . Electrode is attached to a power source not shown .

During operation contaminated liquid enters through inlet . Particles are filtered out of the liquid through the use of filter . When a suitable electric potential is applied to electrode a plasma discharge is generated at or around electrode tip . The plasma discharge induces an electric pulse that vaporizes a portion of the liquid surrounding electrode tip creating a shockwave. The shockwave travels to the filter and dislodges or disintegrates at least a portion of filtered particles collected on filter . The dislodged particles in turn flow out through outlet . Filtered liquid continues to flow out of filter apparatus through outlet . In another example filter apparatus may have additional or multiple electrodes. For example filter apparatus also has electrode . Electrode and electrode may be used separately or together to clean filter .

By altering the distance between the two electrodes in spark gap the power transferred from power supply may be used to produce in liquid one of two different types of plasma in the filter system corona discharge plasma and spark discharge plasma. Either the corona discharge plasma or the more powerful spark discharge plasma generated by electrode may be used to produce electrical charges in the liquid. These short electric pulses have a duration of about 1 500 nanoseconds preferably about 10 200 nanoseconds and more preferably about 50 150 nanoseconds. They are generated at high voltages of about 10 40 kV more preferably 30 40 kV the voltage being sufficient to generate the desired plasma discharge. The associated frequencies can range from about 0.1 500 Hz more preferably about 1 100 Hz. In one preferred embodiment the electric pulses have a voltage of about 30 kV and a corresponding frequency range of about 1 Hz to about 38 Hz.

The electrical pulses rapidly vaporize the solution surrounding electrode and generate strong shockwaves. These shockwaves disintegrate and dislodge metal salt particles such as calcium carbonate particles located on the surface of the filter and push them away from the filter surface and eventually out of the filter system thereby cleaning filter .

The use of a plasma discharge to clean a filter may be used in various ways. In one application the self cleaning filter of the present invention may be incorporated into sand filter system as shown in . Sand filter system has a layer of sand and layer of gravel which are commonly used in cooling towers. The layer of sand has top layer . During operation contaminated liquid enters sand filter system through inlet and exits as filtered liquid through outlet .

In one example of cleaning outlet valve is throttled to a point allowing the untreated water to accumulate at the sand filter such that the water level is about one half inch above the top layer of sand . When the proper water level necessary to enable a plasma discharge is obtained electrodes are energized with a suitable electrical potential from power supply causing suitable plasma discharges such as pulsed spark discharges to be initiated. Ground may be provided by grounding a circular filter mesh . Filter mesh may be constructed from stainless steel. In the present example filter mesh is positioned above the top sand layer may function as one electrode connected to the ground. The discharges vaporize a portion of water surround electrodes causing a shockwave that is used to dislodge any deposits on the top layer of sand . A continuous forward flow of untreated water continues to enter the filtration system at inlet and carries away deposited particles through outlet located just above the top layer thus removing dislodged deposits from the sand filter. The filtered or treated water exits the system at outlet .

When a suitable potential from power supply is applied to metal wire electrodes a plasma discharge is generated which vaporizes a portion of water surround wire electrodes causing a shockwave that is used to dislodge any deposits on the top layer of sand . A continuous forward flow of untreated water continues to enter the filtration system at inlet and carries away deposited particles through outlet located just above the top layer of sand thus removing dislodged deposits from the sand filter. The filtered or treated water exits the system at outlet . More than one power supply may be used to power different sets of wire electrodes .

While the embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

