---

title: Collectin fusion proteins comprising TNF or trail
abstract: The present invention refers to a fusion protein comprising a TNF-superfamily (TNFSF) cytokine or a receptor binding domain thereof fused to a collectin trimerization domain, to a nucleic acid molecule encoding the fusion protein, and to a cell comprising the nucleic acid molecule. The fusion protein is present as a trimeric complex or as an oligomer thereof. The fusion protein, the nucleic acid, and the cell is suitable as pharmaceutical composition or for therapeutic, diagnostic and/or research applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08383774&OS=08383774&RS=08383774
owner: Apogenix GmbH
number: 08383774
owner_city: Heidelberg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080710
---
This application is a National Stage of International Application PCT EP2008 005644 filed Jul. 8 2008 published Jan. 15 2009 under PCT Article 21 2 in English which claims the priority of Application No. EP07013506.6 filed Jul. 10 2007.

This application includes a sequence listing submitted electronically herewith as an ASCII text file named sequence.txt which is 120 kB in size and was created Jan. 7 2010 the electronic sequence listing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention refers to a fusion protein comprising a TNF superfamily TNFSF cytokine or a receptor binding domain thereof fused to a collectin trimerization domain to a nucleic acid molecule encoding the fusion protein and to a cell comprising the nucleic acid molecule. The fusion protein is present as a trimeric complex or as an oligomer thereof. The fusion protein the nucleic acid and the cell is suitable as pharmaceutical composition or for therapeutic diagnostic and or research applications as described herein.

Ligands of the tumor necrosis factor TNF family fulfill crucial roles in the immune system but have also been implicated in the development of epithelial and endothelial structures.TNF family ligands are primarily expressed as trimeric type II transmembrane proteins and are often processed into soluble variants that are also organized as trimers.While shedding of some TNF ligands does not interfere with their capability to activate their corresponding receptors and might be even important for their physiological function other TNF ligands become inactivated by proteolytic processing.Soluble TNF ligands that are not or only poorly active still interact with their cognate receptors. For example the soluble forms of TNF CD95L TRAIL and CD40L interact with TNFR2 CD95 TRAILR2 and CD40 respectively but do not or only poorly activate signaling by these receptors.Notably inactive or poorly active soluble TNF ligands can be converted into highly active molecules by artificially increasing their avidity. For example soluble Flag tagged variants of TNF CD95L TRAIL and CD40L stimulate robust signaling by TNFR2 CD95 TRAILR2 and CD40 respectively provided they were crosslinked with the Flag specific mAb M2. Likewise hexameric and dodecameric fusion proteins of soluble CD95L and soluble CD40L as well as non specifically aggregated preparations of TNF ligands produced in display high activity.

The structural hall mark of the ligands of the TNF family is the carboxy terminal TNF 2 homology domain THD or receptor binding domain RBD both terms are equally used herein which is part of both the transmembrane and soluble forms of TNF ligands.The THDs of the various TNF ligands are composed of a framework of aromatic and hydrophobic residues that adopt an almost identical tertiary fold and cause self association into trimers.The THD also mediates receptor binding. In general trimeric ligands of the TNF family bind to three molecules of their corresponding receptor s . This interaction alone is not necessarily sufficient to activate receptor associated intracellular signaling pathways. Several lines of evidence suggest that the initial formation of trimeric signaling competent ligand receptor complexes is followed by secondary multimerization into supramolecular clusters.These two steps in TNF receptor activation 1. ligand binding 2. secondary aggregation of receptor ligand complexes depend to a varying extent on several factors including lipid raft localization cytoskeleton support receptor autoaggregation receptor associated adapter proteins but also on affinity and avidity of the ligand receptor interaction and the way how the ligand is presented to the receptor membrane ligand or immobilized ligand versus soluble ligand trimers versus higher aggregates .

It is known that trimeric complexes of TNF superfamily cytokines are difficult to prepare from recombinant monomeric units.

For example WO 01 49866 discloses recombinant fusion proteins comprising a TNF cytokine and a multimerization component. A disadvantage of these fusion proteins is however that the trimerization domain usually has a large molecular weight and or that the trimerization is rather inefficient.

Schneider et al. J Exp Med 187 1989 1205 1213 describes that trimers of TNF cytokines are stabilized by N terminally positioned stabilization motifs. In CD95L the stabilization of the CD95L receptor binding domain trimer is presumably caused by N terminal amino acid domains which are located near the cytoplasmic membrane.

Shiraishi et al. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 322 2004 197 202 describes that the receptor binding domain of CD95L may be stabilized by N terminally positioned artificial helical coiled coil leucine zipper motifs. It was found however that the orientation of the polypeptide chains to each other e.g. parallel or antiparallel orientation can hardly be predicted. Further the optimal number of hepta d repeats in the coiled coil zipper motif are difficult to determine. In addition coiled coil structures have the tendency to form macromolecular aggregates after alteration of pH and or ionic strength.

Mc Alinden et al. J of Biol Chem 2002 277 43 41274 41281 discloses the preparation of a fusion protein between a human type IIA procollagen amino acid sequence and a 14 amino acid sequence corresponding to the first two heptad repeats of the rat surfactant protein s SP D neck domain.

WO 01 42298 discloses the preparation of a fusion protein between surfactant protein D comprising the signal sequence the collagen domain and the neck domain and CD40L. The disadvantage of those fusion proteins is that they lead to multimeric aggregates that are highly immunogenic and that they do not produce functionally defined trimeric ligands.

It was an object of the present invention to provide fusion proteins comprising a TNF cytokine or a receptor binding domain which allow efficient recombinant manufacture combined with good trimerization properties and improved pharmaceutical properties.

The invention further relates to a nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion protein as described herein and to a cell or a non human organism transformed or transfected with a nucleic acid molecule as described herein.

The invention also relates to a pharmaceutical or diagnostic composition comprising as an active agent a fusion protein a nucleic acid molecule or a cell as described herein.

The invention also relates to a fusion protein a nucleic acid molecule or a cell as described herein for use in therapy e.g. the use of a fusion protein a nucleic acid molecule or a cell as described herein for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition in the prophylaxis and or treatment of proliferative disorders particularly disorders caused by associated with and or accompanied by dysfunction of TNF cytokines such as tumors e.g. solid or lymphatic tumors infectious diseases inflammatory diseases metabolic diseases autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid and or arthritic diseases degenerative diseases e.g. neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis apoptosis associated diseases and transplant rejections.

The fusion protein may be a monomeric protein or a multimeric protein. Preferably the fusion protein is present as a trimeric complex consisting of three monomeric units which may be identical or different. Preferably a trimeric complex consists of three identical fusion proteins. In a further preferred embodiment the complex is formed by covalent linkage between three of the fusion proteins described herein e.g. a covalent linkage of disulfide bridges between cysteines of the collectin trimerization domain ii as described herein. The trimeric complex as such shows biological activity. It was found however that oligomers of the trimeric complex e.g. defined complexes wherein the basic trimeric structure is present 2 3 or 4 times also have biological activity. Thus also preferred is an oligomer of the trimeric complex.

One component i of the fusion protein is a cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof. Preferably component i is a mammalian particularly human cytokine or a receptor binding domain thereof including allelic variants and or derivatives thereof. Further it is preferred that the TNF cytokine is a receptor binding domain thereof capable of binding to the corresponding cytokine receptor and preferably capable of receptor activation whereby apoptotic or proliferative activity may be caused. The cytokine may e.g. be selected from TNF superfamily members e.g. human TNFSF 1 to 18 as indicated in Table 1 preferably from LTA SEQ ID NO 1 TNF SEQ ID NO 2 LTB SEQ ID NO 3 OX40L SEQ ID NO 4 CD40L SEQ ID NO 5 CD95L SEQ ID NO 6 CD27L SEQ ID NO 7 CD30L SEQ ID NO 8 CD137L SEQ ID NO 9 TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 RANKL SEQ ID NO 11 TWEAK SEQ ID NO 12 APRIL 1 SEQ ID NO 13 APRIL 2 SEQ ID NO 14 BAFF SEQ ID NO 15 LIGHT SEQ ID NO 16 TL1A SEQ ID NO 17 GITRL SEQ ID NO 18 EDA A1 SEQ ID NO 19 EDA A2 SEQ ID NO 20 or a receptor binding domain thereof. Preferred receptor binding domains of the respective proteins are indicated in Table 1 NH aa to COOH aa and comprise e.g. comprises amino acids 59 205 or 60 205 of LTA SEQ ID NO 1 86 233 of TNF SEQ ID NO 2 82 244 or 86 244 of LTB SEQ ID NO 3 52 183 or 55 183 of OX40L SEQ ID NO 4 112 261 or 117 261 of CD40L SEQ ID NO 5 51 193 or 56 193 of CD27L SEQ ID NO 7 97 234 98 234 or 102 234 of CD30L SEQ ID NO 8 86 254 of CD137L SEQ ID NO 9 161 317 of RANKL SEQ ID NO 11 103 249 104 249 or 105 249 of TWEAK SEQ ID NO 12 112 247 or 113 247 of APRIL 1 SEQ ID NO 13 112 250 or 113 250 of APRIL 2 SEQ ID NO 14 140 285 of BAFF SEQ ID NO 15 91 240 of LIGHT SEQ ID NO 16 91 251 or 93 251 of TLIA SEQ ID NO 17 52 177 of GITRL SEQ ID NO 18 245 391 of EDA A1 SEQ ID NO 19 245 389 of EDA A2 SEQ ID NO 20 .

More preferably the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof is selected from CD95L or TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof. In an especially preferred embodiment the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof comprises the extracellular portion of a TNF cytokine including the receptor binding domain without membrane located domains.

In a preferred embodiment the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof of the fusion protein is selected from human CD95L SEQ ID NO 6 particularly amino acids 142 281 or 144 281 of human CD95L.

In a further preferred embodiment the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof of the fusion protein is selected from human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 particularly amino acids 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL. In another preferred embodiment human TRAIL comprise any amino acid from 95 120 as initial amino acid amino acid 281 of SEQ ID NO 10.

In a further preferred embodiment of the invention the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof of the fusion protein as described herein comprises a mutant of the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof which binds and or activates TRAIL receptor 1 TRAILR1 and or TRAIL receptor 2 TRAILR2 . The binding and or activity of the mutant may be e.g. determined by the assays as disclosed herein e.g. in the Examples or by the assays disclosed in van der Sloot et al. PNAS 2006 103 8634 8639 Kelley et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005 280 2205 2215 or MacFarlane et al. Cancer Res. 2005 65 11265 11270 .

The mutant may be generated by any technique and is known by the skilled person e.g. the techniques disclosed in an der Sloot et al. PNAS 2006 103 8634 8639 Kelley et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005 280 2205 2215 or MacFarlane et al. Cancer Res. 2005 65 11265 11270 any may comprise any type of structural mutations e.g. substitution deletion duplication and or insertion of an amino acid. A preferred embodiment is the generation of substitutions. The substitution may affect at least one amino acid of the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein. In a preferred embodiment the substitution may affect at least one of the amino acids of TRAIL e.g. human TRAIL e.g. SEQ ID NO 10 . Preferred substitutions in this regard affect at least one of the following amino acids of human TRAIL of SEQ ID NO 10 R130 G160 Y189 R191 Q193 E195 N199 K201 Y213 T214 S215 H264 1266 D267 D269. Preferred amino acid substitutions of human TRAIL of SEQ ID NO 10 are at least one of the following substitutions R130E G160M Y189A Y189Q R191K Q193S Q193R E195R N199V N199R K201R Y213W T214R S215D H264R I266L D267Q D269H D269R or D269K.

The amino acid substitution s may affect the binding and or activity of TRAIL e.g. human TRAIL to or on either the TRAILR1 or the TRAILR2. Alternatively the amino acid substitution s may affect the binding and or activity of TRAIL e.g. human TRAIL to or on both the TRAILR1 and the TRAILR2. The binding and or activity of the TRAILR1 and or TRAILR2 may be affected positively i.e. stronger more selective or specific binding and or more activation of the receptor. Alternatively the binding and or activity of the TRAILR1 and or TRAILR2 may be affected negatively i.e. weaker less selective or specific binding and or less or no activation of the receptor.

Examples of mutants of TRAIL with amino acid substitution s that affect binding and or activity of both TRAILR1 and TRAILR2 may be found e.g. in Table 1 of MacFarlane et al. cf. above and may comprise human TRAIL mutants with the following two amino acid substitutions of SEQ ID NO 10 Y213W and S215D or the following single amino acid substitution Y189A.

Examples of mutants of TRAIL with amino acid substitution s that affect binding and or activity of TRAILR1 may be found e.g. in Table 1 of MacFarlane et al. cf. above and may comprise human TRAIL mutants with the following four amino acid substitutions of SEQ ID NO 10 N199V K201R Y213W and S215D or the following five amino acid substitutions Q193S N199V K201R Y213W and S215D or in Table 2 of Kelley et al. cf. above and may comprise human TRAIL mutants with the following six amino acid substitutions Y213W S215D Y189A Q193S N199V and K201R or Y213W S215D Y189A Q193S N199R and K201R.

Examples of mutants of TRAIL with amino acid substitution s that affect binding and or activity of TRAILR2 may be found e.g. in Table 1 of MacFarlane et al. cf. above or in Table 2 of Kelley et al. cf. above and may comprise human TRAIL mutants with the following six amino acid substitutions of SEQ ID NO 14 Y189Q R191K Q193R H264R I266L and D267Q or in Table 2 of van der Sloot et al. cf. above and may comprise human TRAIL mutants with the following single amino acid substitution D269H the following two amino acid substitutions D269H and E195R or D269H and T214R.

In a further preferred embodiment the cytokine portion of the fusion protein is derived from human LIGHT SEQ ID NO 16 particularly amino acids 91 240 of SEQ ID NO 16.

In a still further preferred embodiment the cytokine portion of the fusion protein is derived from human APRIL SEQ ID NO 13 or 14 particularly amino acids 112 247 or 113 247 of SEQ ID NO 13 or 112 250 or 113 250 of SEQ ID NO 14.

A flexible linker element may additionally located between the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof i and the collectin trimerization domain as described herein ii . The flexible linker element preferably has a length of 3 20 amino acids particularly a length of 3 6 9 10 12 15 or 18 amino acids. More preferably the length of the linker is 9 15 amino acids. The linker element is preferably a glycine serine linker i.e. a peptide linker substantially consisting of the amino acids glycine and serine. In an especially preferred embodiment the linker has the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. It is clear to the skilled person that in cases in which the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof already terminates with a G e.g. human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 such a G may form the first G of the linker in the linker sequence GSS SSG GSG .

The collectin trimerization domain ii may comprise any collectin family member. Such members and their structures are summarized in e.g. Hakansson et al. Protein Science 2000 9 1607 1617 and may comprise surfactant protein D surfactant protein A mannan binding protein A mannan binding protein C collectin liver 1 collectin placenta 1 or collectin 11. The collectin trimerization domain as described herein may be from a different species than the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein. Alternatively the collectin trimerization domain as described herein may be from the same species than the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof described herein. In a preferred embodiment the collectin domain as described herein is from human and the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein is from human. In a preferred embodiment the collectin trimerization domain comprises the neck and carbohydrate binding domain CRD domain of the surfactant protein D particularly amino acids 217 375 218 375 219 375 220 375 221 375 222 375 223 375 224 375 225 375 from human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21. In another preferred embodiment the collectin trimerization domain comprises the neck domain of the surfactant protein D particularly amino acids 217 257 218 257 219 257 220 257 221 257 222 257 223 257 224 257 or 225 257 from human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21. In another preferred embodiment the collectin trimerization domain comprises the neck and carbohydrate binding domain CRD domain of collectin 11 particularly amino acids 110 271 116 271 or 121 271 of human collectin 11 of SEQ ID NO 22. In another preferred embodiment the collectin trimerization domain comprises the neck domain of collectin 11 particularly amino acids 110 147 110 148 110 149 110 150 110 151 116 147 116 148 116 149 116 150 116 151 121 147 121 148 121 149 121 150 or 121 151 of human collectin 11 of SEQ ID NO 22.

The collectin trimerization domain ii may comprise a mutant e.g. a mutant of surfactant protein D or collectin 11 which does not bind to mannose. Such mutants may be identified by methods known to the skilled person e.g. the methods disclosed in Crouch et al. J Biol Chem 2006 281 26 18008 18014 . The collectin trimerization domain ii may further comprise a mutant which comprise at least one amino acid substitution as is described herein and may be generated as described herein. Such amino acid substitutions may modify the binding of the collectin trimerization domain to its ligand mannose and lead to an alteration of the clearance rate of a fusion protein as described herein when used in therapy and or as pharmaceutical composition. The modification may result in a decreased or no binding to mannose and a low clearance rate. Such modifications may be achieved by e.g. amino acid substitution that affect amino acid position F355 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 particularly by the amino acid substitutions F355A F355S F355T F355E F355D F355K or F355R. Especially preferred is the substitution F355D. Alternatively the modification may result in an increased binding to mannose and a high clearance rate. Such modifications may be achieved by e.g. amino acid substitution that affect amino acid position F355 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 particularly by the amino acid substitutions F355L F355Y or F355W.

In the fusion protein of the invention as described herein the collectin trimerization domain ii may be located C terminally of the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof i . Thus the fusion protein may comprise a cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein and a collectin trimerization domain that comprises the neck domain alone or the neck and the CRD domain e.g. the neck domain and the CRD and or neck domain of surfactant protein D or the neck domain and the CRD and or neck domain of collectin 11 both as described herein wherein those domains are located C terminally of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof i . In this embodiment it is preferred that the collectin trimerization domain comprises the neck domain and the CRD.

In the fusion protein of the invention as described herein the collectin trimerization domain ii may be located N terminally of the cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof i . Thus the fusion protein may comprise a cytokine of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein and a collectin trimerization domain that comprises the neck domain e.g. the neck domain of surfactant protein D or the neck domain of collectin 11 both as described herein wherein those domains are located N terminally of the TNF superfamily or a receptor binding domain thereof i .

In a preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the CRD and neck domain of surfactant protein D preferably amino acids 217 375 218 375 219 375 220 375 221 375 222 375 223 375 224 375 225 375 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located C terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard are SEQ ID Nos 26 or 27. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids.

In a preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the neck domain of surfactant protein D preferably amino acids 217 257 218 257 219 257 220 257 221 257 222 257 223 257 224 257 or 225 257 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located C terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. A preferred fusion protein in this regard is SEQ ID NO 28. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the CRD and neck domain of collectin 11 preferably amino acids 110 271 116 271 or 121 271 of human collectin 11 of SEQ ID NO 22 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located C terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard are SEQ ID Nos 29 or 30. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the neck domain of collectin 11 preferably amino acids 110 147 110 148 110 149 110 150 110 151 116 147 116 148 116 149 116 150 116 151 121 147 121 148 121 149 121 150 or 121 151 of human collectin 11 of SEQ ID NO 22 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located C terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. A preferred fusion protein in this regard is SEQ ID NO 31. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard are SEQ ID Nos 36 or 37.

In a preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the neck domain of surfactant protein D preferably amino acids 217 257 218 257 219 257 220 257 221 257 222 257 223 257 224 257 or 225 257 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located N terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein preferably 95 281 116 281 117 281 118 281 119 281 or 120 281 of human TRAIL SEQ ID NO 10 and a collectin trimerization domain or mutant thereof as described herein particularly the neck domain of collectin 11 preferably amino acids 110 147 110 148 110 149 110 150 110 151 116 147 116 148 116 149 116 150 116 151 121 147 121 148 121 149 121 150 or 121 151 of human collectin 11 of SEQ ID NO 22 wherein the collectin trimerization domain is located N terminally of TRAIL or mutant TRAIL as described herein. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard are SEQ ID Nos 32 34. Alternatively the above fusion protein may additionally comprise a linker as described herein e.g. a linker with the amino acid sequence GSS SSG GSG wherein a b c is each 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard is SEQ ID NO 35.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises CD95L particularly human CD95L or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein e.g. amino acids 21 160 of SEQ ID NO 40 and a collectin trimerization domain comprising the neck domain and optionally the CRD of human SP D e.g. amino acids 172 209 and 210 327 of SEQ ID NO 40 respectively or a mutant thereof as described herein. Preferably the fusion protein may comprise a linker e.g. a flexible linker more preferably a glycine serine linker as described herein having a length of preferably 9 15 amino acids. A preferred fusion protein in this regard comprises SEQ ID NO 40 particularly amino acids 21 327 of SEQ ID NO 40.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises LIGHT particularly human LIGHT or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein preferably amino acids 21 170 of SEQ ID NO 41 and a collectin trimerization domain comprising the neck domain and optionally the CRD of human SP D e.g. amino acids 182 219 and 220 337 of SEQ ID NO 41 respectively or a mutant thereof as described herein. Preferably the cytokine and the collectin domain are connected by a linker e.g. a glycine serine linker as described herein having a length of preferably 9 15 amino acids. A preferred fusion protein in this regard comprises SEQ ID NO 41 particularly amino acids 21 327 of SEQ ID NO 41.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or a receptor binding domain thereof or mutant of TRAIL as described herein e.g. amino acids 21 181 of SEQ ID NO 43 wild type TRAIL amino acids 21 181 of SEQ ID NO 47 TRAILR1mut or amino acids 21 181 of SEQ ID NO 48 TRAILR2mut . Further the fusion protein comprises a collectin trimerization domain selected from the neck domain and optionally the CRD of human SP D e.g. amino acids 193 230 and 231 384 of SEQ ID NO 43 respectively or a mutant thereof as described herein e.g. mutants as shown in SEQ ID NO 49 or 50. Preferably the fusion polypeptide comprises both the neck region and the CRD of human SP D. The cytokine and collectin domain are preferably connected by a linker e.g. a glycine serine linker as described herein. Preferably the linker has a length of 9 15 amino acids. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard comprise i SEQ ID NO 43 particularly amino acids 21 348 of SEQ ID NO 43 ii SEQ ID NO 44 particularly amino acids 21 230 of SEQ ID NO 44 iii SEQ ID NO 47 particularly amino acids 21 348 of SEQ ID NO 47 iv SEQ ID NO 48 particularly amino acids 21 348 of SEQ ID NO 48 v SEQ ID NO 49 particularly amino acids 21 348 of SEQ ID NO 49 or vi SEQ ID NO 50 particularly amino acids 21 348 of SEQ ID NO 50.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises TRAIL particularly human TRAIL or receptor binding domain thereof or a mutant of TRAIL as described herein above and a collectin trimerization domain which is the neck domain of human collectin 11 and optionally the CRD of human collectin 11 e.g. amino acids 193 224 and 225 347 of SEQ ID NO 45 respectively. Preferably the CRD is present. Preferably the cytokine and the collectin domain are connected by a linker e.g. a glycine serine linker as described above herein preferably having a length of 9 15 amino acids. Preferred fusion proteins in this regard comprise SEQ ID NO 45 and SEQ ID NO 46 particularly amino acids 21 347 of SEQ ID NO 45 or amino acids 21 229 of SEQ ID NO 46.

In another preferred embodiment the fusion protein comprises APRIL particularly human APRIL or a receptor binding domain thereof as described herein e.g. amino acids 21 158 of SEQ ID NO 51 and a collectin trimerization domain as described herein particularly the neck domain and optionally the CRD of human SP D or a mutant thereof as described herein e.g. amino acids 170 207 and 208 325 of SEQ ID NO 51 respectively. The cytokine and the collectin domain are preferably connected by a linker e.g. a glycine serine linker as described herein preferably having a length of 9 15 amino acids. The preferred fusion protein in this regard comprises SEQ ID NO 51 particularly amino acids 21 325 of SEQ ID NO 51.

The fusion protein as described herein may additionally comprise an N terminal signal peptide domain which allows processing e.g. extracellular secretion in a suitable host cell. Preferably the N terminal signal peptide domain comprises a protease e.g. a signal peptidase cleavage site and thus may be removed after or during expression to obtain the mature protein. In a preferred embodiment the N terminal signal peptide domain comprises the sequence SEQ ID NO 23 SEQ ID NO 24 or SEQ ID NO 25.

Further the fusion protein may comprise comprises a recognition purification domain e.g. a Strep tag domain and or a poly His domain which may be located at the N terminus or at the C terminus.

The fusion protein may additionally comprise a C terminal flexible element having a length of e.g. 1 50 preferably 10 30 amino acids which may include and or connect to a recognition purification domain as described herein.

A further aspect of the present invention relates to a nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion protein as described herein. The nucleic acid molecule may be a DNA molecule e.g. a double stranded or single stranded DNA molecule or an RNA molecule. The nucleic acid molecule may encode the fusion protein or a precursor thereof e.g. a pro or pre proform of the fusion protein which may comprise a signal sequence as described herein or other heterologous amino acid portions for secretion or purification which are preferably located at the N and or C terminus of the fusion protein as described herein. The nucleic acid molecule may encode the fusion protein wherein the heterologous amino acid portions may be linked to the first and or second domain via a protease cleavage site e.g. a Factor X thrombin or IgA protease cleavage site.

Examples of nucleic acids that comprise the coding sequence of a fusion protein as described herein are SEQ ID Nos 38 39 or 42.

The nucleic acid molecule may be operatively linked to an expression control sequence e.g. an expression control sequence which allows expression of the nucleic acid molecule in a desired host cell. The nucleic acid molecule may be located on a vector e.g. a plasmid a bacteriophage a viral vector a chromosal integration vector etc. Examples of suitable expression control sequences and vectors are described for example by Sambrook et al. 1989 Cold Spring Harbor Press and Ausubel et al. 1989 John Wiley Sons or more recent editions thereof.

Various expression vector host cell systems may be used to express the nucleic acid sequences encoding the fusion proteins of the present invention. Suitable host cells include but are not limited to prokaryotic cells such as bacteria e.g. eukaryotic host cells such as yeast cells insect cells plant cells or animal cells preferably mammalian cells and more preferably human cells. The nucleic acid molecule encoding the fusion protein as described herein may be optimized in view of its codon usage for the expression in suitable host cells e.g. yeast cells plant cells insect cells animal cells e.g. mammalian cells or human cells.

Further the invention relates to a non human organism e.g. mouse or rat transformed or transfected with a nucleic acid molecule as described herein. Such organisms may be comprise knock out organisms generated by known methods of genetic transfer including homologous recombination. Alternatively such organisms may comprise transgenic organisms which comprise several copies of the nucleic acid molecule as described herein. The generation of transgenic organisms is known in the art.

The fusion protein the nucleic acid coding therefore the transformed or transfected cell as well as the trimeric complexes or oligomers of the trimeric complexes all as described herein may be used for pharmaceutical diagnostic and or research applications. For these applications it is preferred to use fusion proteins in which both the TNF superfamily cytokine or receptor binding domain thereof as described herein and the collectin trimerization domain as described herein are from the same species in order to minimize immunological effects e.g. from human when applying such proteins to humans. In addition the fusion of a TNF superfamily cytokine or receptor binding domain thereof as described herein to a neck collectin trimerization domain as described herein e.g. neck domain from surfactant protein D or collectin 11 may lead to fast clearance. Alternatively the fusion of a TNF superfamily cytokine or receptor binding domain thereof as described herein to a neck and CRD collectin trimerization domain as described herein e.g. neck and CRD domain from surfactant protein D or collectin 11 may lead to low clearance. The use of mutants of the collectin trimerization domain as described herein may modify the clearance rate of the fusion protein in a way as described herein.

A further aspect of the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical or diagnostic composition comprising as an active agent at least one fusion protein the nucleic acid coding therefore the transformed or transfected cell as well as the trimeric complexes or oligomers of the trimeric complexes all as described herein.

At least one fusion protein the nucleic acid coding therefor the transformed or transfected cell as well as the trimeric complexes or oligomers of the trimeric complexes all as described herein may be used in therapy e.g. in the prophylaxis and or treatment of disorders selected from proliferative disorders particularly disorders caused by associated with and or accompanied by dysfunction of TNF cytokines such as tumors e.g. solid or lymphatic tumors infectious diseases inflammatory diseases metabolic diseases autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid and or arthritic diseases degenerative diseases e.g. neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis apoptosis associated diseases and transplant rejections.

The composition may be administered as monotherapy or as combination therapy with further medicaments e.g. cytostatic or chemotherapeutic agents corticosteroids and or antibiotics. Preferably the composition is administered together with tumor selective apoptosis sensitizing and or inducing agents e.g. as described in Example 2.8.

The fusion protein is administered to a subject in need thereof particularly a human patient in a sufficient dose for the treatment of the specific conditions by suitable means. For example the fusion protein may be formulated as a pharmaceutical composition together with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and or adjuvants. Therapeutic efficacy and toxicity may be determined according to standard protocols. The pharmaceutical composition may be administered systemically e.g. intraperitoneally intramuscularly or intravenously or locally e.g. intranasally subcutaneously or intrathecally. Preferred is intravenous administration.

The dose of the fusion protein administered will of course be dependent on the subject to be treated on the subject s weight the type and severity of the disease the manner of administration and the judgement of the prescribing physician. For the administration of fusion proteins a daily dose of 0.001 to 100 mg kg is suitable.

Table 1 shows a list of cytokines of the TNF super family which may be used in the present invention.

In a different aspect the present invention refers to novel amino acid substitution variants of human surfactant protein D SP D comprising a carbohydrate recognition domain with reduced carbohydrate binding capacity optionally fused to at least one heterologous polypeptide or polypeptide domain as well as nucleic acid molecules encoding such fusion polypeptides. Preferably the mutated SP D polypeptides of the present invention have an amino acid substitutions at position F355 of human surfactant protein D of SEQ ID NO 21 particularly an amino acid substitution by hydrophilic or charged amino acid e.g. F355S F355T F355E F355D F355H or F355R particularly F355D. The heterologous polypeptide or polypeptide domain is preferably of mammalian e.g. human origin e.g. a TNSF cytokine domain as described above. The mutated SP D polypeptides preferably comprise an SP D neck domain as described above. The heterologous polypeptide may be fused to N and or C terminus of the SP D domain. Preferably a linker e.g. a linker as described herein above is present between the SP D and heterologous polypeptide domain.

In the following the basic structure of the recombinant proteins of the invention is shown exemplified for the TNF superfamily cytokines as described herein.

Various fragments of the human collectins Surfactant protein D and collectin 11 are conceivable as trimerization domains as described herein.

Various fragments e.g. receptor binding domains of TNF superfamily cytokines are conceivable as described herein.

1.1 Construction of TNF SF Proteins Stabilised by a C Terminal Positioned Collectin Derived Trimerization Domain

The trimerization motifs Tables 2 and 3 derived from human Collectin 11 Col11 the coiled coil of Collectin 11 CC11 human pulmonary surfactant protein D SP D the coiled coil of SP D CCSPD were fused C terminally to the human receptor binding domain RBD of CD95L CD95L RBD Glu142 Leu281 human TRAIL RBD GIn120 Gly281 human LIGHT RBD Glu91 Val240 and human APRIL RBD Lys113 Leu250 respectively.

Between the TNFSF RBD and the trimerization domain a flexible linker element was placed with varying lengths Table 4 

The nucleic acid molecule encoding the fusion protein as described herein may be cloned into a suitable vector for expressing the fusion protein. The molecular tools necessary in order to generate such a vector are known to the skilled person and comprise restriction enzymes vectors and suitable host for propagating the vectors.

For purification and analytical strategies a Strep tag II amino acid sequence WSHPQFEK was added C terminally. This affinity tag was linked to the trimerization domain by a flexible linker element amino acid sequence PSSSSSSA . To allow for secretory based expression signal peptides derived from human Igk were fused to the N termini of said proteins. The amino acid sequences of the fusion proteins were backtranslated and their codon usage optimised for mammalian cell based expression. Gene synthesis was done by ENTELECHON GmbH Regensburg Germany . The final expression cassettes were subcloned into pcDNA4 HisMax backbone using unique Hind III and Not I sites of the plasmid. All expression cassettes were routinely verified by DNA sequencing.

Hek 293T cells grown in DMEM GlutaMAX GibCo supplemented with 10 FBS 100 units r111 Penicillin and 100 g ml Streptomycin were transiently transfected with plasmids encoding a fusion protein as described herein. Cell culture supernatant containing recombinant proteins were harvested three days post transfection and clarified by centrifugation at 300 g followed by filtration through a 0.22 m sterile filter. For affinity purification 4 ml of 50 Streptactin Sepharose IBA GmbH G ttingen Germany were packed to a 2 ml column and equilibrated with 30 ml phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 PBS Invitrogen Cat. 10010 or buffer W 100 mM Tris HCl 150 mM NaCl pH 8.0 . The cell culture supernatant was applied to the column at 4 C. with a flow rate of 2 ml min. Subsequently the column was washed with PBS or buffer W and specifically bound proteins were eluted stepwise by addition of 5 2 ml buffer E PBS or buffer W with 2.5 mM Desthiobiotin pH 7.4 . The protein content of the eluate fractions was analysed by absorption spectroscopy and by silver stained SDS PAGE. Postitive fractions were subsequently concentrated by ultrafiltration Sartorius Vivaspin 10 000 Da cut off and further analysed by size exclusion chromatography SEC .

SEC was performed on a Superdex 200 column using an kta chromatography system GE Healthcare . The column was equilibrated with PBS Invitrogen Cat. 10010 and the concentrated streptactin purified proteins were loaded onto the SEC column at a flow rate of 0.5 ml min. The elution of was monitored by absorbance at 280 nm. The apparent molecular weight of purified proteins were determined based on calibration of the Superdex 200 column with gel filtration standard proteins Bio Rad GmbH M nchen Germany .

To analyze caspase activation a cellular assay with the Jurkat A3 permanent human T cell line cat. no. CRL2570 ATCC was used. Jurkat cells were grown in flasks with RPMI 1640 medium GlutaMAX GibCo supplemented with 10 FBS Biochrom 100 units ml Penicillin and 100 g ml Streptomycin GibCo . Prior to the assay 100 000 cells were seeded per well into a 96 well microtiterplate. The addition of different solutions containing the protein with or without a crosslinking antibody to the wells final volume 200 l was followed by a 3 hour incubation at 37 C. Cells were lysed by adding 20 l lysis buffer 250 mM HEPES 50 mM MgCl 10 mM EGTA 5 Triton X 100 100 mM DTT 10 mM AEBSF pH 7.5 and plates were incubated on ice for 30 minutes to 2 hours. Apoptosis is paralleled by an increased activity of Caspases. Hence cleavage of the specific Caspase substrate Ac DEVD AFC Biomol was used to determine the extent of apoptosis. For the Caspase activity assay 20 l cell lysate was transferred to a black 96 well microtiterplate. After the addition of 80 l buffer containing 50 mM HEPES 1 Sucrose 0.1 CHAPS 50 M Ac DEVD AFC and 25 mM DTT pH 7.5 the plate was transferred to a Tecan Infinite F500 microtiterplate reader and the increase in fluorescence intensity was monitored excitation wavelength 400 nm emission wavelength 505 nm .

For the determination of cell death in HT1080 fibrosarcoma HeLa cervix carcinoma and WM35 melanoma cells 15 000 cells were plated in 96 well plates over night in RPMI 1640 medium GlutaMAX GibCo supplemented with 10 FBS Biochrom . For Colo205 cells 50 000 cells were plated over night. Cells were stimulated the following day with indicated ligand and incubated for an additional 18 hours. For HeLa and HT1080 cells cycloheximide Sigma at a final concentration of 2.5 g ml was used during stimulation with ligands. Cell death of HT1080 HeLa and WM35 was quantified by staining with buffer KV 0.5 crystal violet 20 methanol . After staining the wells were washed with water and air dried. The dye was eluted with methanol and optical density at 595 nm was measured with an ELISA reader. Viability of Colo205 cells was quantified by MTS assay Promega .

To determine the effect of TRAIL fusion proteins primary human hepatocytes were prepared from healthy donors and cultured in Williams E medium using 25 000 cells per well in 96 well plates. At day two medium was changed to DMEM F12 supplemented with 10 FCS human insulin Pen Strep minimum essential medium MEM sodium pyruvate and 10 mM Hepes and cultured for another day. Cells were stimulated at day three with varying concentrations of indicated proteins in presence or absence of cross linking antibodies StrepMablmmo IBA GmbH . To evaluate the potential hepatotoxic effect of a cotreatment of ligands with chemotherapeutic agents TRAIL ASPD F335D was coincubated at varying concentrations together with 5 mM of doxorubicin or 5 mM gemcitabine. Cells were incubated for 5 or 24 hours at 37 C. and 5 COand were then lysed for determination of caspase activity as described in section Cell death assays .

To determine the binding of receptors to constructed ligands streptactin coated 96 well microplates were used. Therefore supernatants from transiently transfected HEK293 cells mouse sera or purified proteins were immobilized on streptactin plates IBA GmbH for 1 3 hours in PBS. Samples were diluted in ELISA binding blocking buffer PBS 0.1 Tween 20 20 SuperBlock T20 PBS Pierce . Plates were washed with PBS 0.1 Tween 20 and incubated with mouse anti TRAIL antibody Pharmingen clone RIK 2 TRAIL Receptor 1 Fc R D Systems TRAIL Receptor 2 Fc R D Systems TACI Fc R D Systems or HVEM Fc R D Systems for one hour at room temperature. Plates were again washed and Fc proteins were detected with anti human or anti mouse Fc specific peroxidase conjugated antibodies Sigma . Colour reaction was done by addition of 100 l per well of TMB substrate Kem En Tec Diagnostics and the absorbance at 450 nm and 630 nm was determined with an ELISA reader after addition of 25 l of 25 HSOas stop solution. Values were calculated as 450 nm 630 nm with MS Excel.

ELISA plates Nunc Maxisorp were incubated over night at 4 C. with 10 g well of yeast mannan Sigma in sterile coating buffer 15 mM NaCO 35 mM NaHCO 0.025 NaN pH 9.6 . Plates were first incubated for one hour at room temperature with buffer BB 20 mM Tris 140 mM NaCl 5 mM CaCl 0.1 BSA and 20 SuperBlock T20 PBS Pierce and secondly for additional 90 minutes with varying concentrations of indicated ligands in buffer BB. Plates were washed with buffer WB 20 mM Tris 140 mM NaCl 5 mM CaCl 0.05 Tween 20 and detection was done by using streptactin HRP IBA GmbH in buffer BB. Plates were washed and developed with TMB substrate Kem En Tec Diagnostics . The absorption at 450 nm and 630 nm was determined with an ELISA reader after addition of 25 l of 25 HSOas stop solution. Values were calculated as 450 nm 630 nm with MS Excel.

Male CD1 mice Charles River were intravenously injected with 10 g protein dissolved in 300 l PBS Invitrogen . Blood was collected after 0 min predose 5 min 30 min 2 hours 6 hours and 24 hours. For each time point two samples were collected. Blood samples were processed to obtain serum and were stored at 15 C. The concentration of TRAIL fusion proteins was determined using an ELISA as described below chapter 1.9 and half lives were calculated GraphPad Prism v4.0 .

To quantitate the concentration of TRAIL proteins in mouse sera originating from pharmacokinetic studies an ELISA method employing 96 well microplates was used.

ELISA plates were coated for 1 h at 37 C. with 2 g ml mouse anti TRAIL clone RIK 2 Pharmingen . After washing with PBS 0.1 Tween 20 and blocking the plate for 30 min at 37 C. with StartingBlock Pierce serum samples at a concentration of 0.2 and 5 calibration samples and control samples were added and incubated for 1 h at 37 C. Calibration and control samples were prepared from the respective TRAIL batch TRAIL ASPD or TRAIL ASPD F335A or TRAIL ASPD F335D and were supplemented with 0.2 or 5 non treated pooled CD1 mouse serum to account for potential matrix effects. Control samples high medium and low concentration of the TRAIL construct were added as quality controls to ensure precision and accuracy of the TRAIL quantitation in the given assay window. Plates were again washed and the StrepTag containing TRAIL constructs were detected with 1 1000 diluted StrepTactin POD IBA . All samples and proteins were diluted with ELISA buffer PBS 0.1 Tween 20 5 StartingBlock Pierce . The colour reaction started after addition of 100 l per well TMB substrate Kem En Tec Diagnostics . the absorbance at 450 nm and 630 nm was determined with an ELISA reader after addition of 25 l of 25 H2SO4 as stop solution. Values were calculated as 450 nm 630 nm with MS Excel.

From the Streptactin affinity purified CD95L ASPD 0.5 ml 0.86 mg protein were loaded with a flow rate of 0.5 ml min onto a Superdex200 column using PBS as running buffer. Fractions of 0.5 ml were collected A1 to A11 are indicated . The retention volume of the major peak at 11.92 ml corresponded to 170 kDa as determined from size exclusion standard. This indicated that the protein is a trimer composed of glycosylated monomers. The calculated molecular weight of the monomeric polypeptide is 38 kDa. An aliquot of fractions A1 to A11 was used for SDS PAGE and caspase activity. Only the defined trimeric peak fractions A7 to A10 was used for final analyses. The results are shown in .

An aliquot from size exclusion chromatography of affinity purified CD95L ASPD was used for reducing SDS PAGE followed by silver staining. The band detected at approximately 40 45 kDa indicated by an arrow corresponded to CD95L ASPD. The trimeric species was present in fractions A7 to A10. The results are shown in .

Jurkat cells were incubated with aliquots at a final 8 fold dilution from fractions A1 to A15 from SEC with affinity purified CD95L ASPD. Cells were lysed after 3 h incubation and the caspase activity was determined with a fluorogenic assay. The fractions corresponding to the trimeric peak fractions A7 A10 induced clear but weak caspase activity in Jurkat as these cells are known to require extensively cross linked ligand. The aggregated and undefined species in fractions A1 A6 is therefore a potent inducer of caspase activation not used further . Importantly only the defined trimeric species A7 to A10 was collected and used for final analyses. The results are shown in .

The human cancer cell lines HT1080 A HeLa B or WM35 C were incubated with indicated concentrations of purified trimeric CD95L ASPD in the presence or absence of cross linking antibody 2.5 microgram ml of anti Strep tag II . Cells were incubated for 18 h and cytotoxicity was analyzed by crystal violet staining. As a result CD95L ASPD induced cell death in HeLa cervix cacinoma and HT1080 fibrosarcoma but not in WM35 melanoma cells. The results are shown in .

From affinity purified LIGHT ASPD 0.5 ml 1.56 mg were loaded onto a Superdex 200 column and resolved at 0.5 ml min using PBS as running buffer. The major peak detected at 11.96 ml corresponded to a size of 170 180 kDa indicating that LIGHT ASPD is a trimer composed of three glycosylated monomers. The trimeric peak fractions A7 to A10 was collected and used for final analyses. The inset shows the silver stained SDS PAGE of two independent purified and trimeric LIGHT ASPD batches designated 0917 and 0918 . The results are shown in .

Varying concentrations 0 10 microgram ml of affinity and SEC purified trimeric LIGHT ASPD were used for immobilized via the Strep tag II on Streptactin coated microplates. LIGHT ASPD was then detected in a ELISA set up using 100 ng ml of Fc fusion proteins of the receptors HVEM and TRAIL Receptor 1 respectively. Whereas the ELISA signal increased for HVEM Fc with increasing amounts of immobilized ligand no signal was detected for TRAIL Receptor 1 Fc over the whole range analyzed. This indicated that LIGHT ASPD is a functional molecule that could bind to its receptor HVEM. The results are shown in .

HEK293 cells were transiently transfected with 24 different expression vectors encoding for TRAIL fusion proteins Table 6 .

Supernatants were used for SDS PAGE and TRAIL constructs were detected by Western Blot analysis employing an antibody specific for Strep tag II.

Specific bands detected are indicated by an arrow. The expression strength depended on the type of the trimerization motif employed for construction SPD 69 T4 Collectin11 CCSPD CC11 as well as on the length of the linker element A B C D . The results are shown in .

Jurkat cells were incubated for three hours in the presence filled bars anti Strep tag II or absence clear bars of a cross linking antibody 2.5 micrograms ml anti Strep tag II with supernatants from transiently transfected HEK cells. Supernatants contained TRAIL fusion proteins with different trimerization motifs T4 69 SPD CCSPD Col11 CC11 fused through varying linker elements A B C and D linker . As negative control cell supernatant from untransfected cells was used. Jurkat cells were lysed and analyzed for caspase activity with a fluorogenic assay.

As a result the caspase activity decreased with the type of linker element employed A B C D and on the Fold On employed. Collectin 11 or coiled coil of Collectin 11 CCCol11 containing TRAIL constructs are expressed shown by Western Blot analyses however were not functional whereas SPD derived fold on motifs yielded functional TRAIL ligands. The results are shown in .

Affinity purified TRAIL ASPD was subjected to SEC by loading 0.5 ml 0.4 mg protein to a Superdex200 column at 0.5 ml min with PBS as running buffer. Protein elution was monitored by absorption at 280 nm and 0.5 ml fractions were collected. The retention volume of 12.28 ml corresponds to 135 140 kDa as determined from size exclusion standard. This indicated that TRAIL ASPD is a homotrimer as the calculated molecular weight of the monomeric polypeptide is 40 kDa. Importantly for all fusion proteins analyzed by SEC consisting of the wild type TRAIL RBD sequence an additional peak at around 8 ml corresponding to aggregated and non active TRAIL fusion protein was observed. From the collected fractions A1 A14 only the trimeric peak A8 A10 was used for further analyses. The results are shown in .

The human cancer cell lines HeLa HT1080 Colo205 or WM35 were incubated for 18 hours with indicated concentrations of purified trimeric TRAIL ASPD in the presence or absence of cross linking antibody 2.5 microgram ml of anti Strep tag II . Cell death was quantified by crystal violet staining HeLa WM35 and HT1080 or by MTS assay Colo205 . The rise in the viability of Colo205 cells at high ligand concentration is likely due to limitation of cross linking antibody. The results are shown in .

Varying A or a constant B concentration of affinity and SEC purified trimeric TRAIL ASPD was used for immobilization on Streptactin coated 96 well plates. Plates were then incubated for 5 h with 100 000 Jurkat cells per well at 37 C. 5 CO2 and the caspase activity was determined with a fluorogenic assay. To analyze specificity plate B was incubated for 30 minutes with indicated varying concentrations of an antagonistic anti TRAIL antibody clone RIK 2 Pharmingen prior addition of cells. The results are shown in .

HT1080 cells were incubated on the same 96 well plate with purified and trimeric TRAIL ASPD or TRAIL DSPD at indicated concentrations. Cell death was quantified the following day by crystal violet staining. The use of the D linker reduced the bioactivity approximately 4.5 fold as indicated by the EC50 values of 27 ng ml and 6 ng ml for TRAIL DSPD and TRAIL ASPD respectively. The results are shown in .

HEK293 cells were transiently transfected with expression plasmids encoding for different TRAIL receptor selective SPD constructs 

Supernatants were collected three days post transfection and an aliquot was used for SDS PAGE and Western Blotting employing an antibody specifc for Strep tag II. Specific bands were detected at around 38 kDa SPD fusion proteins and 28 kDa coiled coil SPD fusion proteins . The amount of expressed protein depended on the ligand itself TRAILR1mutein TRAILR2mutein TRAIL secondly the linker length used A D and third the trimerization motif used SPD CCSPD . Apparent molecular weights were as expected from the calculated sizes 40 kDa and 27 kDa for SPD and CCSPD fusion proteins respectively . The results are shown in .

The selectivity of TRAIL Receptor 1 or TRAIL Receptor 2 towards fusion proteins of SPD ccSPD and TRAIL TRAILR1mut and TRAILR2mut was shown by Streptactin ELISA. Therefore TRAIL SPD fusion proteins in supernatants from transiently transfected HEK293 cells were immobilized on Streptactin coated microplates. Cell supernatant from untransfected cells served as negative control. The results are shown in . Specifically bound proteins were detected with constant A B or varying C D concentrations of either TRAIL Receptor 1 Fc or TRAIL Receptor 2 Fc. As shown in A the ligand TRAILR1mut fused to SPD variants is deteced by TRAIL Receptor 1 whereas the ligand TRAILR2mut is not. As shown in B the ligand TRAILR2mut is preferentially detected by TRAIL Receptor 2 whereas TRAILR1mut and TRAIL wild type constructs are equally well detected. As shown in C TRAIL Receptor 1 Fc bound to TRAIL R1mut ASPD and TRAIL ASPD equally well over the whole receptor titration range whereas TRAIL R2mut ASPD is not detected. As shown in D TRAIL Receptor 2 Fc bound to TRAIL R2mut ASPD and TRAIL ASPD equally well over the receptor titration range analyzed whereas the signal for TRAIL R1 mut ASPD decreased rapidely with decreasing concentrations of receptor.

One microgram ml of affinity purified trimeric TRAIL ASPD TRAILR1mut ASPD or TRAILR2mut ASPD in 100 microliter of PBS were used for immobilization via the Strep tag II on Streptactin coated microplates. Bound ligands were detected in a ELISA set up using Fc fusion proteins of TRAIL Receptor 1 A or TRAIL Receptor 2 B . As shown in A TRAIL Receptor 1 bound preferentially to the receptor selective TRAILR1mut ASPD as compared to TRAILR2mut ASPD. As shown in B TRAIL Receptor 2 preferentially bound to TRAILR2mut ASPD as compared to TRAILR1mut ASPD. In conclusion the constructed TRAIL variants fused to SPD are receptor selective. The results are shown in .

Affinity purified TRAILR1mut ASPD was subjected to SEC by loading 0.5 ml 0.95 mg protein on a Superdex200 column. The results are shown in . Proteins were resolved at 0.5 ml minute with PBS as running buffer and 0.5 ml fractions were collected fractions A1 to A14 are indicated . The retention volume of 12.46 ml corresponded to 140 145 kDa as determined by size exclusion standard. A minor peak at 10.83 ml indicated some aggregated species importantly however no peak was detected at the running front 8 ml indicating that this molecule is much more soluble as compared to proteins containing parts of the wild type TRAIL amino acid sequence.

An aliquot from size exclusion chromatography of affinity purified TRAILR1mut ASPD was used for non reducing A or reducing B SDS PAGE followed by silver staining as shown in . Under non reducing conditions two bands were detected at 35 and 70 kDa whereas a single band of 40 kDa indicated by an arrow was detected under reducing conditions. This indicated the formation of disulphide bridged molecules. The trimeric species was present in fractions A8 to A11 and was used for later analyses.

Jurkat cells were incubated in the absence open bars or presence filled bars of 2.5 microgram ml of cross linking antibody with aliquots at a final 80 fold dilution from fractions A1 to A14 from SEC of affinity purified TRAILR1mut ASPD. The results are shown in . As negative control Jurkat cells were incubated with medium only. Jurkat cells were lysed after 3 h incubation and the caspase activity was determined with a fluorogenic assay. As Jurkat cells have been shown to mainly express TRAIL Receptor 2 no fraction induced significant caspase activity even when TRAILR1mit ASPD was cross linked by Strep tag II specific antibody. This indicated that TRAILR1mut ASPD does not bind to TRAIL Receptor 2.

Affinity purified TRAILR2mut ASPD was subjected to size exclusion chromatography by loading 0.5 ml 0.5 mg protein to a Superdex 200 column as shown in . Proteins were resolved at 0.5 ml minute with PBS as running buffer and 0.5 ml fractions were collected fractions A1 to A14 are indicated . The retention volume of 12.60 ml corresponds to 130 135 kDa as determined from size exclusion standard. This indicated that TRAILR2mut ASPD is a homotrimer as calulated from the expected monomeric weight of 40 kDa. Importantly more than 95 was present in the trimeric peak fraction and no aggregates were detected. The trimeric peak was used for later analyses.

An aliquot from size exclusion chromatography of affinity purified TRAILR2mut ASPD was used for non reducing A or reducing B SDS PAGE followed by silver staining as shown in . Under non reducing conditions two bands were detected at 35 and 70 kDa whereas a single band of approximately 40 kDa indicated by an arrow was detected under reducing conditions. This indicated the formation of disulphide bridged molecules. The trimeric species was present in fractions A9 to A11 and was used for later analyses.

The results from a Jurkat cell kill assay with TRAILR2 mut ASPD are shown in . Jurkat cells were incubated in the absence clear bars or presence filled bars of cross linking antibodies 2.5 microgram ml anti Strep tag II with aliquots from fractions A1 to A14 from SEC of affinity purified TRAILR2mut ASPD. Samples were used at at final 640 fold dilution. Cells were lysed after 3 h of incubation and the caspase activity was determined with a fluorogenic assay. As Jurkat cells have been shown to mainly express TRAIL Receptor 2 that requires multimerized ligand forms for efficient signalling TRAILR2mut ASPD induced caspase activity when cross linked. This indicated that TRAILR2mut ASPD is a functional molecule.

The cytotoxic activity of TRAIL ASPD TRAILR1mut ASPD and TRAILR2mut ASPD on different human cancer cells is shown in . The indicated cell lines HT1080 A and B Hela C and D or Colo205 E and F were treated with varying concentrations of purified and trimeric TRAIL ASPD TRAILR1mut ASPD or TRAILR2mut ASPD in the absence A C and E or presence B D and F of cross linking antibody anti Strep tag II . Cells were incubated for 18 hours with indicated concentrations of ligands and cell death was quantified by crystal violet staining HT1080 and HeLa or MTS assay Colo205 . As a result the ligand TRAIL ASPD induced cell death on the three cell lines tested and TRAILR2mut ASPD showed superior cell killing activity. In contrast TRAIL Receptor 1 selective TRAILR1mut ASPD was not active on any cell line tested.

Affinity purified TRAILR2mut ASPD was concentrated 20 fold in PBS by centrifugation through a 10 kDa membrane to give a solution of 2.5 mg ml. From the concentrate 0.1 ml were subjected to size exclusion chromatography. As a result only the trimeric peak and no aggregates were detected indicating that this composition has improved production capabilities . Similar results were achieved for TRAILR1mut ASPD where a concentrated solution of even 5.4 mg ml showed no signs of aggregation not shown . In contrast all fusion proteins tested containing the receptor binding domain composed of the wild type TRAIL sequence showed aggregation with 40 aggregates at concentrations as low as 0.4 mg ml.

The amino acid sequences of receptor selective TRAIL mutein fusion polypeptides are shown in the following.

Affinity purified TRAIL ASPD F335A was subjected to Size Exclusion Chromatography by loading 0.5 ml PBS solution 0.4 mg protein to a Superdex 200 column as shown in . Proteins were resolved at 0.5 ml minute with PBS as running buffer and 0.5 ml fractions were collected A1 to A13 are indicated . The retention volume of 12.27 ml corresponds to 135 145 kDa as determined from size exclusion standard. This indicated that TRAIL ASPD F335A is a homotrimer as calculated from the expected monomeric weight of 40 kDa. Two additional peaks at 8.32 and 10.68 ml indicated the formation of TRAIL ASPD F335A aggregates. Only the trimeric peak was used for later analyses.

From Size exclusion chromatography an aliquot from collected fractions A1 to A13 was resolved by reducing SDS PAGE and the gel was silver stained . The band detected at approximately 40 kDa corresponded to the calculated molecular weight of 40 kDa for TRAIL ASPD F335A. Positive fractions corresponding the trimeric molecule A8 A9 A10 of the SEC run were pooled and used for further analyses.

The amino acid sequences of TRAIL SPD carbohydrate variant fusion proteins is shown in the following.

The cytotoxic effect of TRAIL ASPD F335A on human cancer cells is shown in . Indicated human cancer cell lines were incubated over night with varying concentrations of affinity and SEC purified trimeric TRAIL ASPD F335A in the presence or absence of cross linking antibody 2.5 microgram ml of anti Strep tag II . Cell viability was quantified by crystal violet staining HT1080 HeLa and WM35 or MTS Colo205 . The rise of Colo205 cell viability at high ligand concentrations is likely due to limitation of cross linking antibody.

Affinity purified TRAIL ASPD F335D was subjected to Size Exclusion Chromatography by loading 0.5 ml 0.2 mg protein to a Superdex 200 column as shown in . Proteins were resolved at 0.5 ml minute with PBS as running buffer and 0.5 ml fractions were collected A1 to A13 are indicated . The retention volume of 12.29 ml corresponds to 135 145 kDa as determined from size exclusion standard. This indicated that TRAIL ASPD F335D is a homotrimer as calculated from the expected monomeric weight of 40 kDa. The peak at 8.35 corresponded to inactive TRAIL ASPD F335D aggregates typically found for all fusion proteins containing parts of the wild type TRAIL amino acid sequence.

From Size exclusion chromatography aliquots of affinity purified TRAIL ASPD F335D from the collected fractions A1 to A13 were resolved by reducing SDS PAGE and the gel was silver stained . The bands detected at approximately 40 kDa indicated by an arrow corresponded to the calculated molecular weight of 40 kDa for TRAIL ASPD F335D. Fractions containing trimeric protein fractions A8 to A10 were pooled and used for further analyses.

The human cancer cell lines HT1080 A HeLa B WM35 C or Colo205 D were incubated over night with varying concentrations of affinity purified trimeric TRAIL ASPD F335D in the presence or absence of cross linking antibodies anti Strep tag II . Cell viability was quantified by crystal violet staining HT1080 HeLa and WM35 or MTS Colo205 . The data show that TRAIL ASPD F335D is capable of inducing cell death in exemplified cancer cell lines . The rise of Colo205 cell viability at high concentrations of ligand is likely due to limitation of cross linking antibody.

It has been shown that wild type full length and oligomeric SP D protein from several species as well as the trimeric neck CRD of human SP D bind to several different carbohydrates. In addition the neck CRD of human SP D also has been shown to excert immunomodulatory effects by serving as a chemotactic factor for immuno cells such as neutrophils Cai et al. 1999276 131 136 . Other cells may also be recruited by SP D. The chemotactic effect of neck CRD of human SP D has been shown to depend on the glycobinding function as the addition of maltose inhibited the chemotactic function. Thus a ligand of the TNFSF with a SP D mediated chemotactic function may be of superior activity as compared to ligands or constructs thereof with natural amino acid sequences. For instance in a scenario where cellular effects are desirable such as in cancer treatment such a described ligand may be desirable.

In addition a ligand where SP D has no carbohydrate function may be desirable in other settings. For human SP D a mutant has been described in which amino acid phenylalanine 335 corresponding to amino acid 355 of SEQ ID NO 21 has been mutated to alanine SPD F335A Crouch et al. 281 18008 18014 . This mutant showed very weak carbohydrate binding. However introducing a charged amino acid e.g. an acidic amino acid may be even better as compared to F335A if no carbohydrate binding is desired. Therefore the mutant SPD F335D may be superior towards F335A mutant.

To analyze the binding of TRAIL fusion proteins to carbohydrates mannan from yeast was immobilized on microplates and the binding of TRAIL SPD TRAIL SPD F335A or TRAIL SPD F335D was detected by ELISA. The results are shown in . As expected the ELISA signal increased with increasing concentrations of TRAIL ASPD. In contrast the carbohydrate mutant form TRAIL ASPD F335A showed a very low ELISA signal. In addition the new constructed variant TRAIL ASPD F335D displayed the lowest ELISA signal see inset and arrow . This indicated that the mutant F335D has a lower mannan binding affinity as compared to the previously described SP D mutant form F335A.

To determine the half lifes of TRAIL SPD fusion protein ten micrograms of TRAIL ASPD A or TRAIL ASPD F335D B were injected intraveneously into male CD1 mice and serum samples were collected after several time points predose 5 min. 30 min. 2 h 6 h and 24 h . TRAIL proteins in sera of mice were quantified by an ELISA and the data was used to calculate halflifes. The results are shown in . For the two proteins analyzed a halflife of 7 to 14 hours for TRAIL ASPD A and TRAIL ASPD F335D B were calculated. No animal died or showed signs of intolerance during the period observed. The data indicate an at least 80 fold improvement of the serum halftime as compared to wild type TRAIL that was reported to have a half time in the range of three to five minutes in rodents Kelley et. al 2001 .

To analyze potential hepatotoxic effects of TRAIL ASPD TRAIL ASPD F335A or TRAIL ASPD F335D primary human hepatocytes PHH were incubated with varying concentrations of indicated TRAIL SPD fusion proteins with or without cross linking antibodies anti Strep tag II . As a control a stabilized variant of CD95L CD95L T4 described in WO2008 025516 was used. The results are shown in .

In addition the effect of a simultaneous incubation of PHH with 5 mM of chemotherapeutic drugs was analyzed for TRAIL ASPD F335D. After 5 h A B and E or 24 h C D and F of incubation cells were lysed and caspase activity was assessed with a fluorogenic assay.

As a result all analyzed TRAIL SPD fusion proteins induced no hepatotoxic effects even if ligands were secondarily cross linked by antibodies. In contrast CD95L T4 is hepatotoxic as indicated by an increase of active caspase A to D . Five hours of co incubation of primary human hepatocytes with trimeric TRAIL ASPD335D together with chemotherapeutic drugs induced no caspase activity E . However after 24 h of co incubation with doxorubicin soluble TRAIL ASPD F335D induced a strong caspase activity signal F .

This indicates that TRAIL fusion proteins of the present invention may not show undesired hepatotoxicity in medical use. Thus TRAIL fusion proteins are preferably administered in combination with drugs which are apoptosis sensitizers and or apoptosis inducers e.g. a chemotherapeutic drug such as oxaliplatin cisplatin 5 fluorouracil etoposide gemcitabine irinotecan and others or Bcl2 binding molecules e.g. small molecules or peptidic compounds which bind to polypeptides of the Bcl2 family particularly Bcl2 or Bclxl.

HEK293 cells were transiently transfected with expression vectors encoding for APRIL A69 WO2008025516 APRIL ASPD APRIL ACCSPD or APRIL ACol11. After three days supernatants were analyzed for secreted proteins by Western Blotting. The results are shown in . For the detection of APRIL fusion proteins an antibody specifc for Strep tag II was used. Arrows indicate specific bands that were detected around 40 kDa APRIL ASPD and APRIL ACol11 respectively as well as at around 25 kDa APRIL A69 and APRIL ACCSPD respectively . Thus APRIL expression cassettes are functional and the secretion of protein indicated that the proteins are properly folded. As for other TNFSF proteins analyzed the highest secreted protein levels were found for APRIL fused to the trimerization motif composed of coiled coil neck CRD of human SP D APRIL ASPD lane No. 2 . APRIL ASPD was used to analyze the binding to the receptor TACI.

To show that the constructed APRIL ASPD fusion protein is functional the binding to a known receptor of APRIL namely TACI was assessed . Therefore APRIL ASPD in supernatant from transiently transfected HEK293 cells was immobilized on Streptactin coated microplates. Cell supernatant from untransfected HEK293 cells served as negative control. Specifically bound proteins were detected with varying concentrations of TACI Fc followed by incubation with an anti human Fc specific antibody conjugated with peroxidase. As a result the ELISA signal increased with increasing concentrations of TACI Fc indicating that APRIL ASPD is a functional molecule.

