---

title: Synchronized weapon and ammunition container apparatus
abstract: A synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system is provided with a weapon, rotating automatic arm, ammunition container, and rotatable turret base that allows an anti-aircraft weapon, to traverse, depress and elevate in order to engage a rapid, head-on, fly-over target. The synchronized ammunition container apparatus synchronizes the movement and position of the rotating automatic single arm, ammunition container and rotatable turret base to insure that the ammunition belt will not twist, tangle or break when the weapon follows a rapid, head-on, fly-over target. The synchronized ammunition container system and apparatus gives the user increased flexibility for multiple deployment locations and engaging multiple targets from different directions. Other embodiments include a synchronized anti-aircraft ammunition container and combining the apparatus and anti-aircraft weapon into an integrated anti-aircraft defense system with the synchronized ammunition container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908957&OS=07908957&RS=07908957
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07908957
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080708
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

The invention generally relates to anti aircraft weapons. In particular the invention relates to apparatus and systems providing a synchronized weapon and ammunition container apparatus for rapid firing anti aircraft weapons and machine guns.

Anti aircraft warfare began by adapting machine guns and artillery pieces to engage military aircraft from the ground. Adaptations of ground weapons used before and during World War I and the increased use of tactical aircraft led to more specialized anti aircraft guns being developed during the World War II era. Since then guided missiles have replaced many traditional anti aircraft weapons. However anti aircraft weapons are still used throughout the world in smaller countries that are unable to deploy sophisticated guided missile systems.

Even though anti aircraft weapons are still used extensively throughout the world they still suffer from a number of disadvantages shortcomings and limitations particularly the belt fed anti aircraft machine guns 0.30 0.50 cal . These types of anti aircraft weapons engage targets while mounted mainly on ground vehicles. In such cases when the user engages oncoming targets from the air the anti aircraft weapon usually elevates the barrel as the target gets closer but current anti aircraft guns cannot readily follow an oncoming rapid head on target flying directly over the anti aircraft site. illustrate the head on overhead target problem with prior art anti aircraft weapons.

Movement of the anti aircraft weapon after fly over causes an additional prior art problem which is clearly illustrated in . Referring now to the anti aircraft weapon is shown after weapon rotation in pursuit of the rapid head on fly over overhead target with a twisted and tangled ammunition belt. Even if the mount for the prior art anti aircraft weapon was designed to allow the weapon to elevate to the rear the ammunition belt would still twist tangle and jam because the location of the ammunition box relative to the weapon feed is not mechanically compatible. The twisted and tangled ammunition belt causes the anti aircraft weapon to jam and misfire which exposes the anti aircraft crew and the entire defensive position to the life threatening hazards and dangers of hostile enemy action. Thus there has been a long felt need for an anti aircraft weapon that can be rapidly re positioned in such a way as to follow the target directly over the weapon after fly over with an ammunition box mechanism that will not twist tangle and jam after following the fly over target.

None of the currently available anti aircraft weapons allow the user to engage the rapid head on fly over target in a way that does not impede the operation of the ammunition belt and also avoids the other disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices.

In order to answer the long felt need for an anti aircraft weapon that can follow and engage a rapid head on fly over target without twisting or tangling the ammunition belt mechanism the present invention provides a synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system. The synchronized ammunition container comprises a rotating automatic single arm ammunition container and a rotatable turret base that allows the belt fed anti aircraft weapon to traverse depress and elevate in a way that insures that the ammunition belt will not twist tangle or break. This invention s synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system answers the long felt need for an anti aircraft weapon that overcomes the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art anti aircraft weapons. In accordance with the present invention the military or law enforcement user can now safely and efficiently defend against a rapid head on fly over air assault with a new anti aircraft weapon system that allows the user to fire after the target has already passed over the anti aircraft position without twisting and tangling ammunition belts like prior art weapon systems.

Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide a weapon and ammunition container mounted on a rotating automatic arm connected to the base of the rotatable turret to follow and engage a rapid head on fly over target.

It is another object of this invention to provide a synchronized ammunition container mounted on a rotating automatic arm connected to the base of the rotatable turret to follow and engage the rapid head on fly over target without having the ammunition belt mechanism become twisted and tangled.

It is a further object of this invention to provide a synchronized ammunition container system to rapidly supply ammunition to a belt fed anti aircraft weapon so that the weapon can follow and engage the rapid head on fly over target without having the ammunition belt mechanism become twisted and tangled.

These and other objects are advantageously accomplished with the present invention providing a synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system comprising an ammunition container rotating automatic arm and rotatable turret base that allows a belt fed weapon such as an anti aircraft weapon to traverse depress and elevate in order to engage the rapid head on fly over target. In accordance with the present invention the synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system synchronizes the movement and position of the ammunition container to insure that the ammunition belt will not twist tangle or break when the weapon follows the rapid head on fly over target. In accordance with the present invention the synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system gives the user increased flexibility for multiple deployment locations and engaging multiple targets from different directions.

Other embodiments of the synchronized ammunition container apparatus and system beside anti aircraft weapons are also considered to be within the contemplation of the present invention. These other advantageous implementations include any other belt fed or machine gun type weapon and mounting the weapon on numerous other platforms such as ships vehicles and stationary locations to engage moving air and ground targets. Other embodiments of the present invention include a synchronized anti aircraft ammunition container and an integrated anti aircraft defense system that includes the synchronized ammunition container.

Referring now to the drawings is a simplified conceptual side view of the synchronized ammunition container system of the present invention comprising a weapon muzzle ammunition belt automatic arm ammunition container means for rotation control and rotatable turret base . In accordance with this invention the weapon is fed the ammunition belt from a large high capacity ammunition container that is mounted on an automatic arm that is positioned separately from the weapon . The ammunition container which is mounted on the rotating automatic arm allows the ammunition container to be moved around the rotatable turret base . The automatic arm is connected to the rotatable turret base and is responsive to commands from a means for rotation control causing the rotating automatic arm and consequently the ammunition container to be repositioned whenever the muzzle of the weapon is elevated or moved. The weapon is preferably an anti aircraft weapon but any belt fed machine gun or similar weapon could also be used.

The cooperation of the weapon muzzle ammunition belt automatic arm ammunition container and rotatable turret base allows these structures to move in a way that the ammunition belt will not twist or tangle with the weapon or muzzle . Locating the ammunition container on the rotating automatic single arm in this way synchronizes the movements of those components and allows the user to engage a rapid head on fly over target and continuously follow the target after fly over without the ammunition belt twisting tangling or breaking when following the target. In accordance with the present invention the synchronized ammunition container system gives the user increased flexibility for multiple deployment locations multiple platforms and engaging multiple targets from different directions.

In operation the rotation control means can be a computer that responds to weapon movements by the user so that when the user elevates the weapon or muzzle the computer will rapidly collect and analyze weapon elevation data and then direct the movement of the rotating automatic arm and consequently ammunition container to minimize the stress on the ammunition belt feeding into the weapon . For example when the weapon is elevated so that the muzzle begins pointing rearward the computer will move the rotating automatic arm and ammunition container in a complementary manner so that the ammunition belt will flip and avoid tangling and kinking. In accordance with the present invention the computer of the rotation control means coordinates the movement of the ammunition container when the user elevates the muzzle of the weapon from zero degrees pointing forward to 180 degrees pointing rearward . In a confined space a vehicle equipped with this invention s synchronized ammunition container system can aim the weapon to the rear without traversing the rotatable turret base to the rear which would otherwise be impossible or extremely difficult in a narrow street or alleyway. depicts the rotation control means located on the automatic arm but it can be located elsewhere in or near the system .

Similarly is a side view of the synchronized ammunition container system showing the muzzle pointing rearwards as indicated by arrow in a continuing effort to follow the fly over target that is flying behind the gun position. Top view shows the rotating automatic arm and the ammunition container continuing to feed the ammunition belt to the weapon without the ammunition belt tangling. also depicts the automatic arm with broken lines underneath the ammunition container and solid lines extending under weapon .

Side view illustrates the muzzle of weapon facing rearwards as indicated by arrow to continuously follow the fly over target while top view shows the rotating automatic arm and ammunition container moving in a counter clockwise direction as indicated by arrow without the ammunition belt becoming entangled with the weapon . also illustrates the automatic arm by broken lines underneath ammunition container and solid lines that extend under the weapon .

In accordance with the present invention the rotation control means of the system innovatively provides a corresponding position for the rotating automatic arm ammunition container and rotatable turret for each elevation position of the weapon to insure that there is no mechanical impediment and undue stress on the ammunition belt that can impact the rate that the ammunition belt feeds the weapon . The thrust can traverse while the weapon elevates and the ammunition container rotates in concert.

This invention s synchronized ammunition container system answers the long felt need for a weapon system that overcomes the prior art difficulties of the rapid head on fly over air assault without entangling the ammunition belt . This invention provides the user with increased flexibility of movement and a full range of motion to effectively and continuously engage multiple targets coming from opposite directions more rapidly than conventional anti aircraft weapon systems. In comparison with prior art anti aircraft weapons systems this invention s synchronized ammunition container system also provides additional flexibility of movement when deployed in congested urban areas.

A number of variations to the synchronized ammunition container system are considered to be within the contemplation of this invention including the use of other belt fed weapon systems such as a machine gun deploying the system on different types of platforms such as ships vehicles and stationary locations and engaging moving air naval and ground targets. Other embodiments of the present invention include a synchronized anti aircraft ammunition container and an integrated anti aircraft defense system that includes the synchronized ammunition container.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

