---

title: Chemical sensors for detecting volatile organic compounds and methods of use
abstract: The presently-disclosed subject matter provides sensors and methods for detecting volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by determining the conductivity of a chemiresistant film upon exposure to VOCs, including for example chemiresistant films comprised of surfactant-coated metal alloy nanoparticles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08153439&OS=08153439&RS=08153439
owner: University of Lousiville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08153439
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080726
---
The presently disclosed subject matter claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 952 125 filed Jul. 26 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Subject matter described herein was made with U.S. Government support under Grant Number CHE0518561 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the described subject matter.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to sensors and methods for detecting volatile organic compounds. In particular the presently disclosed subject matter relates to sensors and methods for detecting volatile organic compounds wherein the conductivity of a chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to volatile organic compounds.

Sensing of volatile organic compounds VOCs is widely required in a number of applications that range from medicine to environmental pollution. For example in medical diagnosis air exhaled by patients may be used to indicate lung cancer by the levels of various VOCs. Further the presence of uncontrolled diabetes can be indicated by a sweet odor that is due to excess acetone vapor in the breath 1 . With regard to environmental issues such as the global increase in ozone O and other photochemical oxidants many of these issues are related to VOCs Nitric Oxide NO levels as well as levels of other air pollutants. Ozone is a source of hydroxyl OH radicals which react rapidly with most air pollutants NO SO CO etc. leading to the formation of VOCs that are linked to air contaminants 2 . Further some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons PAHs are carcinogenic VOCs generated by incomplete combustion of mobile sources electricity generating power plants and coal combustion. Also emissions indirectly linked to VOCs correspond to particulate matter PM which coexists in a mixture with sulfates nitrates and organics to form VOCs 2 .

Terrorism is associated with the use of explosives and chemical or biological warfare agents. In the area of homeland security detection of explosive vapors including vapors of volatile organic compounds is desirable in airports underground transportation and other susceptible areas. In particular significant attention is being paid to chemical warfare agents such as organophosphates 3 . As such responding to a chemical or biological attack requires the ability to rapidly detect the agents including VOCs that may be present.

In concerns of public safety detection and quantification of ethanol vapors in breath breathalyzers is required for drivers under the influence of alcohol 4 5 . Breath and blood alcohol concentrations are linearly correlated in a partition ratio of 2000 and breath and blood alcohol content are relative to the degree of alcohol intoxication. For instance levels of intoxication are legally considered to be between 0.5 1.0 g Lin blood which corresponds to 0.25 to 0.5 mg Lin breath 130 266 ppm v v 5 . Sensing ethanol is also widely required in fermentation and distillation either for process control or for avoiding prolonged alcohol exposure.

Other aspects of detecting VOCs are related to new forms of energy production and involve the detection of methanol in direct methanol fuel cells DMFC 6 . Lately vapor fed fuel cells are gaining more attention due to some advantages over liquid fed DMFC. Accordingly detection of methanol vapor is important for controlling the vapor mixture methanol water flow concentration in order to achieve optimal fuel cell operation.

Electronic noses e noses are electronic devices capable of detecting gas and vapor analytes 4 7 11 . The e noses typically use a sensor array to discriminate different analytes in a way that mimics the olfactory system in humans and animals. However the sensitivity and discrimination among different analytes especially in complex samples still requires improvements to compete with techniques like gas chromatography mass spectrometry GC MS . Different transducers used in e noses include piezoelectric 12 18 surface plasmon resonance SPR 19 fluorescence based 16 20 123 and chemiresistive sensors. In the family of chemiresistors metal oxides 7 22 23 carbon black polymers 8 carbon nanotubes CNTs 24 nanorods 23 25 44 and gold Au nanoparticles 24 38 45 48 have been reported.

Films of Au monolayer protected clusters MPCs have been used for VOC detection due to their ease of fabrication low power consumption and the ability to tailor the surface properties to alter the response to different vapors which can then discriminate between analytes in an array format 49 . For example a dual chemiresistor GC based on Au MPC films for detection of low vapor concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 24 ppm has been used 37 and functionalized Au nanoparticles with OH terminal ligands have been used to improve the affinity and sensitivity towards polar vapors 43 . These devices have detected ethanol at 10 20 ppm while others using Au nanoparticles with other ligands reported a lowest detection limit LOD for methanol of 620 ppm 38 . Another report on vapor sensing with MPCs showed a LOD for toluene of 2.7 ppm that was obtained through current conversion filtering and rectification 41 .

Accordingly there remains a need in the art for improved sensors and methods for detecting VOCs. In particular there is a need for more sensitive and selective sensors and methods for detecting VOCs that are capable of high sensitivity fast response reproducibility and stability.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting a volatile organic compound VOC is provided. In some embodiments the sensor comprises an electrically insulating support at least two electrodes positioned at a distance from one another and affixed to the support and a chemiresistant film deposited at least between the electrodes and comprising surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein the surfactant is a compound of Formula I CH CRR NR where n is an integer from 3 to 15 Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl or substituted alkyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of Cl I NO SO ClO and PF and wherein conductivity of the chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to the volatile organic compound. In some embodiments the surfactant is tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr .

In some embodiments of the sensors of presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film further comprises alkyl coated metal alloy nanoparticles. In some embodiments the alkyl comprises about 6 to about 12 carbons atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl comprises about six carbon atoms.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting a volatile organic compound is provided wherein the chemiresistant film comprises alkylthiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles and surfactant molecules of Formula I . In some embodiments the surfactant molecules are tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr molecules. In some embodiments the alkylthiolate is a compound of Formula II CH CRR S where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. In some embodiments the alkylthiolate is CHS .

The presently disclosed subject matter further provides in some embodiments sensors for detecting volatile organic compounds wherein the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of gold silver and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of gold and gold silver.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is drop cast deposited at least between the at least two electrodes. In some embodiments the chemiresistant film is micro contact printed at least between the at least two electrodes.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter sensors are provided comprised of a support and electrodes that are inert to a volatile organic compound. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 100 nanometers to about 1 millimeter. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 23 micrometers.

The presently disclosed subject matter still further provides in some embodiments a method for detecting a VOC in a sample. In some embodiments the method comprises providing a sensor in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter applying a voltage potential between the at least two electrodes exposing the sensor to a vapor sample and monitoring a change in current between the two electrodes to thereby detect a VOC in the sample. In some embodiments a method is provided that comprises providing a sensor wherein the chemiresistant film comprises alkylthiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles and surfactant molecules and identifying at least two volatile organic compounds present in a vapor sample. In some embodiments the surfactant molecules are TOABr molecules. In some embodiments of the methods of the presently disclosed subject matter the concentration of the VOC in the sample is about 20 parts per million to about 150 parts per million.

In some embodiments of the sensors and methods of the presently disclosed subject matter the volatile organic compound is a compound selected from the group consisting of ethanol methanol propanol acetone and toluene.

Accordingly it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide sensors and methods for detecting volatile organic compounds. This object is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects and advantages will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the following description of the presently disclosed subject matter Figures and non limiting Examples.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in the accompanying description below. Other features objects and advantages of the presently disclosed subject matter will be apparent from the specification Figures and Claims. All publications patent applications patents and other references noted herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the presently disclosed subject matter belongs. Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently disclosed subject matter representative methods and materials are now described.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a sensor includes a plurality of such sensors and so forth.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the presently disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed methods.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes sensors and methods for detecting a volatile organic compound. The term volatile organic compound or VOC is used herein to refer to organic compounds whose vapor pressure is sufficiently high such that at room temperature and normal atmospheric pressure the compounds vaporize and enter the surrounding air. VOCs can include but are not limited to compounds typically found in organic solvents certain paint additives aerosol spray can propellants fuels such as gasoline and kerosene petroleum distillates dry cleaning products as well as various other industrial and consumer products ranging from office supplies to building materials. VOCs are also naturally emitted by a number of plants and trees. Other example of VOCs include but are not limited to compounds such as ethanol methanol propanol acetone toluene benzene substituted benzenes ethylenediamine formaldehyde dichloromethane dichloropropane chloroform tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether vinyl acetate tetracholorethanol methylchlorosilane methyl mercury and nitropropane.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting VOCs is provided. In some embodiments the sensor comprises an electrically insulating support at least two electrodes positioned at a distance from one another and affixed to the support and a chemiresistant film deposited at least between the electrodes and comprising surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein conductivity of the chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to the volatile organic compound.

The terms detect detecting and grammatical variations thereof are used herein to refer to determining the presence or absence and or measuring the amount of a VOC. As such detecting a VOC can refer to a determination of whether a particular VOC is present or absent in a sample of interest as well as quantifying the amount of a VOC that is present in a sample of interest. For example to measure the amount of a VOC in a sample a calibration curve for the VOC of interest can be obtained by measuring the response of an exemplary sensor to known VOC concentrations e.g. standards. As another example in complex mixtures containing a VOC of interest a sensor that is selective to a VOC of interest and that is not affected by interferents in the sample is used and a calibration curve can constructed to quantify the VOC of interest in the sample. Alternatively the VOC of interest can first be separated from the sample and then quantified using a calibration curve. Further to quantify one or more VOCs in a sample multi component calibration curves can be used to analyze samples containing known VOC components. As yet another example if it is unknown which VOCs are present in a sample sensor arrays and multidimensional mathematical analyses such as principle component analyses can be used to quantify one or more VOCs of interest in a sample.

As used herein the phrase electrically insulating support refers to a substrate that resists the flow of electrical current and can be used to support or separate electrical conductors while providing low background conductivity or without allowing current to travel via the support itself. For example an electrically insulating support can include but is not limited to substrates comprised of glass porcelain composite materials polymers such as plastics silicates such as mica ceramics and silicon oxide. In some embodiments the support and the electrodes are inert to VOCs.

The electrodes of the presently disclosed sensors can be comprised of any electrically conductive material through which an electric current may enter and leave. Such electrodes are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include but are not limited to silver and gold electrodes that can be affixed to a support. The term affixed is used herein to refer to the attachment of electrodes to a support. For example silver electrodes may be affixed to glass by painting the silver electrodes onto a glass support with a clean pipette or sharp metal tip such as a glass chromatography syringe. As another example gold electrodes may be fabricated by photolithography and affixed to a silicon support by sputtering and depositing gold over a suitable adhesion layer such as a chromium adhesion layer.

An exemplary sensor of the presently disclosed subject matter typically comprises at least two electrodes. The phrase at least two electrodes is used herein to refer to two or more electrodes that are positioned at a distance from one another such that the current running between the two electrodes can be measured. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 100 nanometers to about 1 millimeter. In some embodiments the distance between the electrodes is about 23 micrometers.

A criterion regarding the distance between the at least two electrodes is that the films conduct electricity across the gap between the at least two electrodes. As such the upper limit of the distance between the at least two electrodes can be set by the appearance of possible discontinuities or breaks in the film that would prevent conductivity. For example distances of approximately 100 nm can be used for micro contact printed chemiresistant films as the micro contact printed chemiresistant films are generally continuous and conductive over this distance but can have discontinuities over longer distances that prevent conductivity. As another example drop cast chemiresistant films are generally continuous over distances from about 100 nm to about 1 mm or more so conductivity is possible over longer distances.

The phrase chemiresistant film as used herein refers to films of materials whose conductivity changes in the presence of a vapor or gas analyte. Typically when a vapor or gas analyte partitions into such a film the vapors or gas analytes diffuse and absorb onto the materials which comprise the film and the resulting change in conductivity is proportional to the amount of vapor absorbed into the film. As such in some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film deposited between the electrodes is comprised of surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles wherein the surfactant is a compound of Formula I CH CRR NR I wherein n is an integer from 3 to 15 Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl or substituted alkyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of Cl I NO SO ClO and PF and wherein conductivity of the chemiresistant film is increased upon exposure to the volatile organic compound. In some embodiments the surfactant is tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr .

Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that as vapor analytes contact the chemiresistant films a variety of mechanisms can lead to enhanced conductivity of the chemiresistant films. The enhanced conductivity can be related to vapor analytes increasingly solvating the films as the analytes come into contact with the films thus leading to enhanced ionic conductivity or the enhanced conductivity can be due to an increase in the dielectric properties of the environment a decrease in the distance between nanoparticles or a change in the Faradaic current present in the film.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a sensor for detecting a volatile organic compound is provided wherein the chemiresistant film comprises surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles as disclosed herein and further comprises alkyl coated metal alloy nanoparticles. In some embodiments the alkyl comprises about 6 to about 12 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl comprises about 6 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl can be a substituted alkyl.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to Cinclusive linear i.e. straight chain branched or cyclic saturated or at least partially and in some cases fully unsaturated i.e. alkenyl and alkynyl hydrocarbon chains including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl octyl ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl octenyl butadienyl propynyl methylpropynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl and allenyl groups. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group having 4 to about 8 carbon atoms i.e. a Calkyl e.g. 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Higher alkyl refers to an alkyl group having about 10 to about 16 carbon atoms e.g. 10 11 12 13 14 15 or 16 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cstraight chain alkyls. In other embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cbranched chain alkyls.

Alkyl groups can optionally be substituted a substituted alkyl with one or more alkyl group substituents which can be the same or different. The term alkyl group substituent includes but is not limited to alkyl substituted alkyl halo arylamino acyl hydroxyl aryloxyl alkoxyl alkylthio arylthio aralkyloxyl aralkylthio carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl oxo and cycloalkyl. There can be optionally inserted along the alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen or alkyl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted alkyl includes alkyl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the alkyl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Further as used herein the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include an allyl or an allylic group. The terms allylic group or allyl refer to the group CHHC CHand derivatives thereof formed by substitution. Thus the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include allyl groups such as but not limited to allyl methylallyl di methylallyl and the like. The term allylic position or allylic site refers to the saturated carbon atom of an allylic group. Thus a group such as a hydroxyl group or other substituent group attached at an allylic site can be referred to as allylic. 

In some embodiments a sensor for detecting a volatile organic compound is provided wherein the chemiresistant films are comprised of alklythiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles and surfactant molecules of Formula I . In some embodiments the surfactant molecules are TOABr molecules. The term thiol refers to a sulfur containing SH group. As such the term thiolate is used herein to refer to a deprotonated thiol group or S. In some embodiments the alkylthiolate is a compound of Formula II CH CRR S II 

where n is an integer from 3 to 15 and Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl and substituted alkyl. In some embodiments the alkylhiolate is CHS .

In some embodiments the chemiresistant films of the presently disclosed subject matter are deposited at least between the two electrodes of the sensors. As used herein the phrase at least between is used to refer to locations where the chemiresistant films are deposited onto the support. For example the chemiresistant films can be deposited onto the support such that the film is present only in the space between the electrodes. As another example the chemiresistant films can be deposited on the support such that the film is present in the space between the electrodes and over the electrodes. Further as another example the chemiresistant film can be deposited on the support such that the film is present on a substantial portion of the support including but not limited to the space between the electrodes over the electrodes and over other areas of the support.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is drop cast deposited at least between the at least two electrodes. In this regard one or more drops of a solution in which alkylthiolate coated alkyl and or surfactant coated metal alloy nanoparticles are solubilized e.g. with toluene can be taken and deposited drop wise at least between the two electrodes and allowed to dry until the solvent has evaporated.

In some embodiments of the sensors of the presently disclosed subject matter the chemiresistant film is micro contact printed at least between the two electrodes. In this regard a solution comprising coated nanoparticles can be used as ink for micro contact printing onto solid substrates 50 . Methods of micro contact printing are known to the skilled artisan and include but are not limited to inking a patterned polydimethylsiloxane PDMS stamp with featured lines e.g. lines approximately 1.3 m wide approximately 0.5 m long with approximately 2.2. m separation with a chemiresistant film solution allowing the solution to dry for several minutes and then bringing the stamp into contact with a support for several seconds.

The term metal alloy nanoparticles is used herein to refer to nanoparticles comprised of at least two elements one of which is a metal. The term nanoparticles includes particles having an average size of in some embodiments between about 2 and about 100 nm in some embodiments between about 2 and about 50 nm and in some embodiments between about 2 and about 10 nm. A metal alloy of the presently disclosed subject matter can be comprised of a pure metal alloy or mixtures of metal alloys. For example the metal alloy can be a core shell particle that contains one metal in the core and another metal as a surrounding shell. As another example the metal alloy can be a mixed alloy that is an even mixture of two metals throughout the particle. As yet another example the metal alloy can be a phase segregated alloy where the metal alloy has different separate phases of each metal in the nanoparticle but are not necessarily arranged as a core and shell.

In accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter the metal alloy nanoparticles can comprise a roughly spherical core that is surrounded by an organic monolayer which in some embodiments can comprise a surfactant an alkyl group or an alkylthiolate group. In this regard the term metal alloy nanoparticles can be used interchangeably with the phrase monolayer protected clusters or MPCs. Further the metal alloy nanoparticles surrounded by the organic monolayer can be taken from a solution in which they are soluble and then deposited as films between electrodes where conductivity of the film is then increased upon exposure to volatile organic compounds.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of gold silver palladium and combinations thereof. Further in some embodiments the metal alloy is selected from the group consisting of gold and gold silver.

The presently disclosed subject matter still further provides in some embodiments a method for detecting a VOC in a sample. In some embodiments the method comprises providing a sensor in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter applying a voltage potential between the at least two electrodes exposing the sensor to a vapor sample and monitoring a change in the current between the two electrodes to thereby detect a VOC in the sample. In some embodiments the concentration of the VOC in the sample is about 20 parts per million to about 150 parts per million.

In some embodiments a method for detecting a VOC is provided wherein a sensor is provided that is comprised of a chemiresistant film comprised of a mixture of surfactant molecules and alkylthiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles to thereby identify at least two VOCs present in a vapor sample. In some embodiments the surfactant molecules are TOABr molecules. Disclosed herein in the Examples are data showing that mixed chemiresistant films of alkylthiolate coated metal alloy nanoparticles and TOABr molecules can be used to alter the selectivity of the films such that the sensors are capable of discriminating among vapors of similar characteristics.

The following Examples have been included to illustrate modes of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

TOABr stabilized Au nanoparticles are chemically synthesized following the Brust method but without the addition of thiols 51 . Briefly 0.06 g of HAuClwas dissolved in 25 mL of water and 0.12 g of tetraoctylammonium bromide TOABr was dissolved in 100 mL of toluene. The two solutions were combined and stirred until all of the AuCl transferred into the toluene phase. The solution turned black after 10 fold excess of NaBHwith respect to Au was added to the toluene solution with stirring. The average diameter of TOABr coated Au nanoparticles was 4.1 0.8 nm as determined by atomic force microscopy AFM measurements.

TOABr stabilized nanoparticles are insoluble when isolated as a powder 52 . Thus after reduction and separation from the water phase the toluene solution containing the particles was reduced to approximately 50 mL by rotary evaporation filtered with a microdisc filter acrodisc 2 m PTFE membrane to remove insoluble materials and then used from solution. Two drops of TOABr coated Au nanoparticles were drop cast as a film between gold electrodes that were microfabricated in a clean room. The films were allowed to dry and further used for conductivity measurements.

Vapor sensing experiments were performed by monitoring film current with time using a CH Instrument 660A electrochemical workstation operating in chronoamperometry mode. Measurements were made at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. The current was monitored with time while a 0.3 V potential was applied between the two electrodes and the sample was exposed to alternating flows of pure Nand different concentrations of vapor N. Concentrations for the volatile organic compound vapors ranged from 15 to 0.04 and were obtained by the use of flow meters located between the sample and gas cylinders. The flow meters were operated manually by a 3 way valve.

To exchange the coated nanoparticles with mercaptoethanol a drop cast film of coated Au nanoparticles was placed above 5 mL of pure mercaptoethanol solution for 24 hrs.

Films of CHS coated Au nanoparticles and TOABr coated Au nanoparticles were drop cast deposited onto Si 100 TiW 50 Au 2000 and Si SiOx substrates for surface reflectance Fourier Transform Infrared FTIR spectroscopy and AFM experiments respectively. FTIR data were acquired using a Digilab FTS 7000 spectrometer Varian Cambridge Mass. in reflectance mode with a liquid N cooled MCT detector. A clean Si SiOx surface was functionalized with aminopropyltriethoxysilane APTES . TOABr Au nanoparticles were diluted with a toluene solution by a factor of 1 000 drop cast deposited on the Si SiOx substrate and allowed to dry for AFM characterization. AFM images for nanoparticle size measurements were acquired with a Veeco Digital Instruments Nanoscope 3A Multimode Scanning Probe Microscope Santa Barbara Calif. using a Si tip operating in tapping mode.

Increased conductivity for Au MPC films in the presence of polar vapors has been observed 38 41 . Non polar CHS coated Au nanoparticles drop cast deposited on interdigitated electrodes 41 alkanethiols functionalized with OH terminal groups 41 and Au clusters linked by dithiol bridges 38 have shown increased conductivity upon exposure to polar vapors but the reason was unclear. This was recently attributed to ionic currents present in remaining TOABr impurities after the synthesis was completed 39 . For example at 3.0 the response of TOABr coated Au nanoparticle films is highest for methanol which is 103 . The highest response at the same percent vapor is for toluene for CHS coated Au nanoparticle films which is much smaller at 12 . In this regard it should be noted that the percent response at 3 for the majority of polar vapors for films of TOABr coated Au nanoparticles exceeds 100 .

The extent of vapor phase partitioning and film swelling depends on the functionality of the coated nanoparticles and the characteristics of the analyte. Polar analytes will like polar coated nanoparticles and non polar analytes will like non polar coated nanoparticle and cause larger amounts of swelling. An increase in current in the presence of an analyte can be due to three possibilities according to Equation 1 1 a decrease in or film contraction 2 a decrease in Edue to an increase in or 3 a decrease in . An increase in could occur upon partitioning of a polar analyte into a non polar medium. In the case of TOABr coated nanoparticle films an increase in is expected with increasing polarity of the analyte which is consistent with a decrease in Ein the electron hopping equation and increase in conductivity current . However cyclic voltammograms CVs of TOABr coated Au nanoparticle films show significant hysteresis indicative of large ionic currents in these films data not shown . Since the current is largely ionic the electron hopping equation likely does not apply and the sensing mechanism is different. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that several mechanisms can lead to the enhanced conductivity of the films. It is possible that more polar analytes solvate the film better leading to enhanced ionic conductivity as observed for solid state electrochemistry experiments of plasticized films 54 . Other possibilities include changes in the dielectric constant of the environment decreases in the distance between nanoparticles and Faradaic electrochemical reactions in the films. This different sensing mechanism compared to the more common swelling mechanism for alkanethiol coated films has led to a different response direction that is more sensitive and has a lower detection limit LOD . Even toluene partially solvated the TOABr coated Au nanoparticle films due to the non polar octyl groups.

The following trend for relative dielectric constants 33 24 18 and 2.4 correlates well with the decreased average percentage responses seen in for methanol ethanol IPA and toluene respectively. At high vapor concentrations approximately 15 the films except toluene responded with values above 100 with a 2 3 second response time. This was only observed for polar vapors. At low concentrations from 0.11 0.04 response time was slower ranging from 40 50 seconds but was still very sensitive as shown in . The magnitude of percent response to toluene for TOABr coated Au and CHS coated Au nanoparticles are similar but opposite in current direction as discussed earlier.

These films have been tested for analytes in the presence of potential interferents such as humidity and high temperature. Results show that TOABr coated Au nanoparticle sensors function after being exposed to 70 80 C. and in the presence of 15 relative humidity RH . To reduce the cost of the sensor sensors comprised of TOABr coated Ag nanoparticles and TOABr Pd Ag 1 1 mol ratio were also synthesized. Pure Ag films exhibited no response in the presence of vapors. Interestingly TOABr coated Au Ag films showed enhanced selectivity for polar vapors over non polar vapors although the sensitivity to all vapors decreased relative to TOABr coated Au nanoparticles. This indicates that the metal composition can play an important role in sensing vapors.

Films of mixed CHS coated Au nanoparticles with TOABr coated Au nanoparticles were prepared to determine whether the selectivity of the film to different vapors could be altered. shows a chemiresistive response to 15 ethanol toluene and IPA as indicated for a selected CHS coated Au nanoparticle film before and after addition of TOABr coated Au nanoparticles to the CHS coated Au nanoparticle solution that was exposed. shows the typical response observed for CHS coated Au nanoparticles where the response is largest for toluene followed by IPA and ethanol.

The selectivity of coated Au nanoparticles has been previously altered by changing the functionality of the nanoparticles 48 which has even been used in an array format 49 . However changing the functionality usually involves synthesizing a new batch of coated nanoparticles with different functional groups or performing solution phase thiol place exchange or coupling reactions which can take several days. The studies disclosed herein utilize another approach for altering selectivity by changing the functionality of coated Au nanoparticles using vapor phase place exchange reactions 55 . Micro contact printed or microstamped films of CHS coated Au nanoparticle vapor exchanged with dithiol molecules were previously prepared for imparting stability to the microlines by forming two thiolate Au bonds on adjacent nanoparticles per dithiol molecule 42 . Further self assembled monolayers SAMs have been assembled by vapor phase thiol adsorption 56 . The advantage of vapor phase thiol place exchange is that one sample of coated Au nanoparticles can be drop cast across electrodes and chemically altered to various different functionalities very rapidly by eliminating long reactions times rotaevaporation filtering purification and collection. It also allows functionalization with groups that might cause solution phase coated nanoparticles to become insoluble which would make drop casting them as a film impossible.

The foregoing examples demonstrate the design of a very sensitive film comprised of TOABr stabilized Au nanoparticles for sensing VOCs. These films are more sensitive to polar VOCs compared to CHS coated Au nanoparticles and can detect for example ethanol at levels relevant for breathalyzer tests. Two approaches were used to improve the selectivity for complex mixtures. First addition of TOABr molecules to CHS coated Au nanoparticles exhibited two different behaviors the current response increased in the presence of ethanol and decreased for IPA and toluene as expected since the film is also comprised of CHS coated Au nanoparticles. The second approach was to functionalize the CHS coated Au nanoparticle films by exchanging polar groups mercaptoethanol in the vapor phase. This led to chemiresistive films that responded selectively to IPA by increasing in current and very poorly responded to the presence of non polar analytes toluene . Ionic currents dominate the conductivity of TOABr Au films revealing a new type of sensing mechanism for metal nanoparticles surrounded by organic stabilizers.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced. All such references are incorporated herein by reference including the references set forth in the following list.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

