---

title: Architectural design for sell from stock application software
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing sell from stock software useful to process quotations, capture orders, process delivery and invoice. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service interfaces, and multiple service operations, each being implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Accounting process component; a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component; an Outbound Delivery Processing process component; a Site Logistics Processing process component; an Inventory Processing process component; a Customer Requirement Processing process component; a Supply and Demand Matching process component; a Logistics Execution Control process component; a Due Item Processing process component; a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component; a Payment Processing process component; a Customer Invoice Processing process component; a Customer Quote Processing process component; and a Sales Order Processing process component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321250&OS=08321250&RS=08321250
owner: SAP AG
number: 08321250
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
The subject matter of this patent application relates to computer software architecture and more particularly to the architecture of application software for sell from stock.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

This specification presents a software architecture design for a software application implementing sell from stock functionality.

In various aspects the software architecture design can be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products for implementing a software architecture design for a software application implementing sell from stock software useful to process quotations capture orders process delivery and invoice. The application is structured as multiple process components interacting with each other through service operations each implemented for a respective process component. The process components include an Accounting process component a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component an Outbound Delivery Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component an Inventory Processing process component a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component a Logistics Execution Control process component a Due Item Processing process component a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component a Payment Processing process component a Customer Invoice Processing process component a Customer Quote Processing process component and a Sales Order Processing process component.

The software architecture design can further be implemented as methods systems and apparatus including computer program products implementing a software architecture design for a software application that is adapted to interact with external software systems through the service operations described in reference to external process components or a subcombination of them.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in the sell from stock design includes seven deployment units a Financial Accounting deployment unit a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit a Supply Chain Control deployment unit a Due Item Management deployment unit a Payment deployment unit a Customer Invoicing deployment unit and a Customer Relationship Management deployment unit .

The Financial Accounting deployment unit includes two process components an Accounting process component that records all relevant business transactions for valuation and profitability analysis and a Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component that is responsible for the management of financial accounting master data that is used both for accounting and costing purposes.

The Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes three process components an Outbound Delivery Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component and an Inventory Processing process component .

The Outbound Delivery Processing process component manages and processes the outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. It combines document based tasks for the outbound delivery process and enables communication with the originating document e.g. fulfillment the product recipient and invoicing.

The Site Logistics Processing process component combines tasks concerning the preparation physical execution and confirmation of logistics processes within a site. Logistics processes which are based on site logistics process models include picking packing shipping and receiving as well as value added services.

The Inventory Processing process component combines tasks required for the management of inventory and recording of inventory changes. The Inventory process component can provide services to maintain current stock and handle unit content logistics operating unit content and allocation content.

The Supply Chain Control deployment unit includes three process components a Customer Requirement Processing process component a Supply and Demand Matching process component and a Logistics Execution Control process component .

The Customer Requirement Processing process component combines the tasks required for controlling customer requirements in the supply chain. This involves checking material availability receiving preparing and passing customer requirements on to supply planning and logistics and providing feedback on fulfillment.

The Supply and Demand Matching process component combines all the tasks necessary to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account. For example the supply and demand matching component may collect all the various material demands from customer requirement processing in house requirement processing demand forecast processing and sales scheduling agreement processing and attempt to assign all the existing material receipts. The matching component may also plan the internal or external procurement of further material receipts where necessary.

The Logistics Execution Control process component creates controls and monitors the supply chain execution activities necessary for the fulfillment of an order on a macro logistics level. It triggers the necessary site logistics activities and receives information about the supply chain execution progress. For example sales order activities or purchase order activities may be controlled and monitored by the logistics execution control process component. The Logistics Execution Control process component sends information to the logistics execution to trigger the necessary supply chain execution activities receives information about supply chain execution progress and updates data relevant for both fulfillment and supply and demand planning.

The Due Item Management deployment unit includes a Due Item Processing process component and a Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Due Item Processing process component is used for the collection management and monitoring of trade receivables or payables and corresponding sales or withholding tax. The Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component is used for the collection processing and reporting of receivables and payables according to foreign trade regulations that are required by the central banks to create the balance of payments of a country.

The Payment deployment unit includes a Payment Processing process component . The Payment Processing process component combines all the tasks necessary for the processing and management of all payments. Payment Processing is also responsible for the associated communication with financial institutions such as banks and provides the primary input for liquidity management.

The Customer Invoicing deployment unit includes a Customer Invoice Processing process component that is used for invoicing a customer for the delivery of goods or the provision of services.

The Customer Relationship Management deployment unit includes two process components a Customer Quote Processing process component and a Sales Order Processing process component .

The Customer Quote Processing process component is used to process quotes to customers offering the delivery of goods according to specific terms.

The Sales Order Processing process component handles customers requests to a seller for the delivery of goods on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. For example a sales area receives the request and is then responsible for fulfilling the contract.

The foundation layer described below includes a Pricing Engine process component and a Payment Authorization process component . The Pricing Engine process component processes price and tax calculations. The Payment Authorization process component represents a reusable service that is used to process the authorization request for a payment made using a payment card at the clearing house for example to authorize the payment for goods or services purchased from an online store using a credit card.

A number of external process components described below will be used to describe the architectural design. These include a Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component an Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component a Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component a Payment Processing at Business Partner process component a Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component a Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component an RFQ Processing at Customer process component a Due Item Processing at Business Partner process component an External Tax Calculation process component and a Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component .

Not explicitly represented in the figures is a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that are used in multiple deployment units . These entities can be process components business objects and reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

A process component of an external system is drawn as a dashed line process component . Such a process component represents the external system in describing interactions with the external system however the process component need not represent more of the external system than is needed to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The connector icon is used to simplify the drawing of interactions between process components . Interactions between process component pairs involving their respective business objects process agents at and operations interfaces and messages at and are described as process component interactions which determine the interactions of a pair of process components across a deployment unit boundary i.e. from one deployment unit to another deployment unit . Interactions between process components are indicated in by directed lines arrows . Interactions between process components within a deployment unit need not be described except to note that they exist as these interactions are not constrained by the architectural design and can be implemented in any convenient fashion. Interactions between process components that cross a deployment unit boundary will be illustrated by the figures of this patent application these figures will show the relevant elements associated with potential interaction between two process components but interfaces process agents at and and business objects that are not relevant to the potential interaction will not be shown.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements the end to end process mentioned earlier. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit . It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object . A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. This example business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component . A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects . Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components can be categorized as a standard process component a process component at a business partner a third party process component or a user centric process component. The standard process component named simply process component is a software package that realizes a business process and exposes its functionality as services. The process component at a business partner is a placeholder for a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component used at a business partner. The third party process component is a process component or other technology that performs the essential functions of the process component provided by a third party. The user centric process component is a process component containing user interface parts.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is often the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation . An operation belongs to exactly one process component . A process component generally is able to perform multiple operations . Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents e.g. at and which will be described below. Operation may be the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters serving as a signature.

The architectural elements also include the service interface referred to simply as the interface. An interface is a named group of operations . Interface typically specifies inbound service interface functionality or outbound service interface functionality. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface . An interface belongs to exactly one process component . A process component might contain multiple interfaces . In some implementations an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations directed to the same other process component are in one interface .

The architectural elements also include the message . Operations transmit and receive messages . Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component. In some implementations the message is a form based message that can be translated into a recognized format for an external process component . The form message type is a message type used for documents structured in forms. The form message type can be used for printing faxing emailing or other events using documents structured in forms. In some implementations the form message type provides an extended signature relative to the normal message type. For example the form message type can include text information in addition to identification information to improve human reading.

The architectural elements also include the process agent e.g. at and . Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages . Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. The process agent can be associated with one or more operations . Process agents at and can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object .

An outbound process agent and will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents and are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents and are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents by using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the communication channel template. The communication channel template is a modeling entity that represents a set of technical settings used for communication. The technical settings can include details for inbound or outbound processing of a message. The details can be defined in the communication channel template. In particular the communication channel template defines an adapter type a transport protocol and a message protocol. In some implementations various other parameters may be defined based on a selected adapter type. For example the communication channel template can define a security level conversion parameters default exchange infrastructure parameters processing parameters download URI parameters and specific message properties.

The communication channel template can interact with internal or external process components at and . To interact with an internal process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an operation and interface pair. To interact with an external process component the communication channel template is received and uploaded to be used with an external entity such as an external bank business partner or supplier.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit . A deployment unit includes one or more process components that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a boundary of a deployment unit defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit .

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interaction within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original .

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units . Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are assigned to their respective deployment unit .

As shown in a bank statement is created at a bank and an IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message with statement information is generated. The IT CBI Bank Account Statement Notification message uses Mapping Entity to transform the IT CBI formatted message to a Bank Account Statement Notification message . The message is received in the Payment Processing process component where a Create Bank Statement operation is invoked to create a bank statement. The Create Bank Statement operation is included in a Payment Processing Incoming Payment Advicing In interface . A Maintain Bank Statement inbound process agent updates a House Bank Statement business object by creating a new bank statement. The House Bank Statement business object represents a legally binding notification from the house bank about the revenues items within a specific time period at a house bank account with a defined starting and closing balance.

The Bank Statement Creation at Bank process component sends information to Payment Processing process component using an IT CBI Notify of Bank Account Statement communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a bank statement.

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The Customer Quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time.

A Notify Customer Quote to Customer outbound process agent uses a Notify of Customer Quote operation to initiate messages to the RFQ Processing at Customer process component . The Notify of Customer Quote operation is included in a Quote Processing Out interface . The Notify of Customer Quote operation sends a Form Quote Notification message to the RFQ Processing at Customer process component .

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes an Incoming Check business object a Check Deposit business object the Payment Order business object the House Bank Statement business object a Payment Allocation business object a Bill of Exchange Receivable business object a Bill of Exchange Deposit business object a Cash Transfer business object and a Payment Advice business object . The Incoming Check business object represents a check issued by a business partner. The Check Deposit business object represents an index of checks deposited at a house bank e.g. the house bank can credit the total amount specified in check deposit to a house bank account . The Payment Allocation business object represents the assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Deposit business object represents a deposit of bills of exchange receivable at a house bank for credit to a house bank account. The Cash Transfer business object represents a company internal money transfer that includes payments from one house bank account to another house bank account transfer payments from one cash storage to another cash transfer payments from a cash storage to a house bank account cash deposit and or payments from a house bank account to a cash storage cash withdrawal . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons.

An update in one or more of the above business objects can trigger the Payment Processing process component to update an Accounting Notification business object in the Accounting process component . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction. In one example an update in the Incoming Check business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit of an incoming check. The Notify of Payment from Incoming Check to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Payment operation can notify accounting of cash receipts and cash disbursements. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation can notify accounting about the cancellation of cash receipts and cash disbursements.

As shown in if the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Incoming Check business object is saved then a Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Incoming Check business object is cancelled then a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component .

The Accounting process component includes a Payment Accounting In interface . The interface includes a Create Accounting Document operation and a Cancel Accounting Document interface . If the Payment Accounting Notification message is received the Create Accounting Document operation is invoked. If the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is received then the Cancel Accounting Document operation is invoked. The operations can trigger a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In another example an update in the Check Deposit business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit of a deposition of one or more checks. The Notify of Payment from Check Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Check Deposit business object is ready for transfer then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Check Deposit business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In another example an update in the Payment Order business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit of a self initiated payment. The Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is final then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Order business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In another example an update in the House Bank Statement business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit concerning payments on bank accounts. For example these payments may be sent to the system via the House Bank Statement business object . The Notify of Payment from Bank Statement to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the House Bank Statement business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the House Bank Statement business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In yet another example an update in the Payment Allocation business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit from the Payment Allocation business object . The Notify of Payment from Payment Allocation to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Allocation business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Allocation business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In yet another example an update in the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit from the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Receivable to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In yet another example an update in the Bill of Exchange Deposit business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit from the Bill of Exchange Deposit business object . The Notify of Payment from Bill of Exchange Deposit to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Bill of Exchange Deposit business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Bill of Exchange Deposit business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In yet another example an update in the Cash Transfer business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit from the Cash Transfer business object . The Notify of Payment from Cash Transfer to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Cash Transfer business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Cash Transfer business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

In yet another example an update in the Payment Advice business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent to send a notification to the Financial Accounting deployment unit from the Payment Advice business object . The Notify of Payment from Payment Advice to Accounting outbound process agent invokes either the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation . If the Notify of Payment operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Advice business object is saved then the Payment Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation is invoked e.g. a status of the Payment Advice business object is cancelled then the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message is sent to the Accounting process component to update the Accounting Notification business object .

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Due Clearing business object a Due Payment business object a Product Tax Declaration business object a Withholding Tax Declaration business object and a Tax Due Payment business object . The Accounting process component includes the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction. Updates in some or all of the Due Clearing business object the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object the Withholding Tax Declaration business object or the Tax Due Payment business object can trigger messages to be sent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing. The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables from goods and services. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables or receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The Withholding Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of withholding tax payables of a company to a tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and country specific legal requirements that triggers the payment to the tax authority if required. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

As shown in an update in the Due Clearing business object may trigger a Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent . The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Payment operation or a Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment operation and the Notify Payment Cancellation operation are included in a Payment Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent may invoke the Notify of Payment operation if the due clearing is released. The Notify of Payment from Due Clearing to Accounting outbound process agent may invoke the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the due clearing is cancelled.

The Notify of Payment operation notifies accounting of payments or clearings of trade and tax receivables or payables. The Notify of Payment operation sends a Payment Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation notifies accounting of payment or clearing cancellations for trade and tax receivables or payables. The Notify of Payment Cancellation operation sends a Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component .

The Payment Accounting In interface includes a Create Accounting Document operation and a Cancel Accounting Document operation . The Create Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation receives the Payment Cancellation Accounting Notification message . Both operations trigger a Maintain Accounting Document based on Payment inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

An update in the Due Payment business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent . The outbound process agent sends a notification to Accounting for inward or outward trade receivables and or payables payments. The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if a value added tax VAT declaration is released. The Notify of Payment from Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

An update in the Product Tax Declaration business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent . The outbound process agent sends a notification to the Accounting process component for a payment of tax receivables and or payables. The Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if a VAT declaration is released. The Notify of Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the VAT declaration is cancelled.

An update in the Withholding Tax Declaration business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent . The outbound process agent sends a notification to the Accounting process component for a declaration of withholding tax payables. The Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if a withholding tax declaration is released. The Notify of Payment from Withholding Tax Declaration to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the withholding tax declaration is cancelled.

An update in the Tax Due Payment business object triggers a Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent . The outbound process agent sends a notification to the Accounting process component for a payment of tax due. The Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation or the Notify Payment Cancellation operation . The Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment operation if tax is due. The Notify of Payment from Tax Due Payment to Accounting outbound process agent invokes the Notify of Payment Cancellation operation if the tax due is cancelled.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify Customer of Customer Invoice outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The Notify of Invoice operation is included in an Invoicing Out interface . The Customer Invoice Processing process component sends information to the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer processing component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Notify of Invoice operation sends full billing documentation e.g. a customer invoice to a customer for customer usage. The Notify of Invoice operation generates an Invoice Request message . The message is sent from the Customer Invoicing Processing process component to the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component requesting that the update be made. The Notify of Invoice operation can also generate a Form Invoice Request message . The message is sent from the Customer Invoicing Processing process component to the Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component . The Supplier Invoice Processing at Customer process component receives information from the Customer Invoice Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. While XI represents Exchange Infrastructure any similar or suitable third party or proprietary tool may be used to perform the functions provided by or described in relation to XI.

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Logistics Execution Requisition business object . The Logistics Execution Requisition business object sends instructions to Logistics Execution which supports the controlling triggering and monitoring of a logistic process on a macro logistics level to fulfill an order. The business object uses a Request Fulfillment for Logistics Execution Requisition to Outbound Delivery Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Delivery Fulfillment operation . The operation generates a Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface .

The Delivery Request Fulfillment Request message is received by a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request inbound process agent to update an Outbound Delivery Request business object . The Outbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping. The Maintain Outbound Delivery Request inbound process agent is used to validate an inbound delivery and an advanced shipping notification and to prepare inbound logistics for receiving the goods.

A Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Requisition to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent invokes a Confirm Fulfillment operation to confirm data upon receipt of an inbound delivery request. The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends a delivery fulfillment confirmation to the Logistics Execution Control process component . The confirmation includes data that indicates if the outbound delivery request is partially completed fully completed or reset to not complete. It can also indicate if the outbound delivery request confirmation part has changed. The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface .

The Confirm Fulfillment operation generates a Delivery Request Fulfillment Confirmation message . The message is received by a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation uses a Change Logistics Execution Requisition based on Delivery Fulfillment Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Logistics Execution Requisition business object .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Customer Invoice Processing 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are provided for shipping by a vendor. The business object uses a Request Invoicing from Outbound Delivery to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation sends a billing due notification to the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation generates a Customer Invoice Request message and sends a customer invoice request to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

The message is received by a Maintain Customer Invoice operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes a Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The business object uses a Request Invoicing from Sales Order to Customer Invoice Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Invoicing operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The operation sends a Customer Invoice Request Request message to the Customer Invoice Processing process component .

The Customer Invoice Request Request message is received by a Maintain Customer Invoice Request operation . The operation creates updates deletes or requests cancellation of customer invoice requests. The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Customer Invoice Request inbound process agent to update a Customer Invoice Request business object . The Customer Invoice Request business object represents a request to create one or several customer invoices or to take account of the data for the underlying business document when creating a customer invoice.

The Customer Invoice business object uses a Confirm Customer Invoice to Sales Order Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Invoicing operation . The Confirm Invoicing operation is included in a Request Invoicing Out interface . The outbound process agent uses the Confirm Invoicing operation to send a Customer Invoice Issued Confirmation message to the Sales Order Processing process component .

The message is received by a Change Sales Order based on Customer Invoice operation . The operation is included in a Request Invoicing In interface . The operation uses a Change Sales Order based on Customer Invoice inbound process agent to update sales orders with information from customer invoices in the Sales Order business object . This information may include an update of the status and invoiced quantity of a sales order.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Advice business object . The Payment Advice business object represents an announcement of a payment transaction by a business partner to the company specifying payment reasons. A Payment Advice Notification message is received from the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component by a Create Payment Advice operation . The operation is included in an Incoming Payment Advicing In interface . The Payment Processing process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Create Payment Advice operation invokes a Notify of Payment from Payment Order to Business Partner inbound process agent . The agent updates the Payment Advice business object with information about payments in transfer. The Payment Processing at Business Partner process component sends information to the Payment Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner Out XI communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes a Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to the customer. The Customer Invoice business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent to notify accounting of the existence of the customer invoice.

The business object uses the Notify of Customer Invoice to Accounting outbound processing agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The operations are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Invoice operation is invoked an Invoice Accounting Notification message is generated and sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked an Invoice Cancellation Accounting message is generated and sent to the Accounting process component .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting message . An Invoice Accounting In interface includes the Create Accounting Document operation and the Cancel Accounting Document operation . The operation creates an accounting document for a customer invoice or supplier invoice. The operation cancels an accounting document for a customer invoice or supplier invoice.

The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document Based on Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Order Processing at House Bank 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes a Bank Payment Order business object . The Bank Payment Order business object represents an order to a house bank to make a transfer or direct debit from a specified house bank account to fulfill a payment order. The house bank can be a bank located in France.

The Bank Payment Order business object uses a Request File Based Payment Order from Bank Payment Order to House Bank outbound process agent to invoke a Request File based Payment Order operation . The Request File based Payment Order operation instructs a house bank using a file to make a bank transfer or a direct debit. The operation is included in a Payment Ordering Out interface . The Request File based Payment Order operation generates a File based Collective Payment Order Request message . The File based Collective Payment Order Request message uses Mapping Entity to transform the file based message type to a Collective Payment Order Request message that can be received by the Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component . The Collective Payment Order Request message is in a format that the house bank a bank located in France can understand. A collective payment order can be an instruction based on a file transfer to a credit institution to carry out one or more payment transactions e.g. bank transfers or direct debits . The Payment Order Processing at House Bank process component receives information from the Payment Processing process component using a Payment Order Request communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from a third party about a payment order request.

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes the Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Sales Order business object uses a Notify of Sales Order to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Sales Order operation . The operation notifies the Accounting process component about the creation change or cancellation of a sales order. The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The operation generates a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message that is sent to the Accounting process component .

A Create Accounting Notification operation receives the Sales and Purchasing Accounting Notification message . The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Subledger Account based on Sales and Purchasing inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object about the creation the change or the deletion of any kind of order business objects. The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction.

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Allocation business object . The Payment Allocation business object represents an assignment of a payment item to the payment reasons from which the payment item originated. The business object uses a Request Clearing Maintenance from Payment Allocation to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Clearing operation . The operation generates a Clearing Request message to request the clearing of payments payment allocation status set to released within the Due Item Processing process component .

The business object can also use the outbound process agent to invoke a Request Clearing Cancellation operation . The operation generates a Clearing Cancellation Request message to request the canceling of payments payment allocation status set to cancelled . Both operations and are included in a Clearing Out interface in the Payment Processing process component .

A Create Clearing operation receives the Clearing Request message . A Cancel Clearing operation receives the Clearing Cancellation Request message . A Clearing In interface includes the Create Clearing operation and the Cancel Clearing operation . The Create Clearing operation creates a clearing for foreign initiated payments. The Cancel Clearing operation cancels a previously sent clearing request by reference. The Create Clearing operation and the Cancel Clearing operation use a Maintain Clearing inbound process agent to update the Tax Due Payment business object or the Due Payment business object or both. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables. The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to trade receivables and payables from goods and services.

The Tax Due Payment business object can use a Confirm Clearing from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Clearing operation . The operation generates a Clearing Confirmation message . The message is sent to the Payment Processing process component for a clearing request. The outbound process agent confirms or rejects the clearing of a foreign initiated payment for trade receivables payables. The Confirm Clearing operation is included in a Clearing Out interface .

The Due Payment business object can use a Confirm Clearing from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Confirm Clearing operation . The operation generates a Clearing Confirmation message . The message is sent to the Payment Processing process component for a clearing request. The outbound process agent confirms or rejects the clearing of a foreign initiated payment for trade receivables payables.

The message is received by a Change Payment Allocation based On Clearing Request Confirmation operation that confirms the execution or rejection of a sent Clearing Request. The operation is included in a Clearing In interface . The operation uses a Change Payment Allocation Based On Clearing Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update the Payment Allocation business object .

As shown in the Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Site Logistics Requisition business object . The Site Logistics Requisition business object represents a request to logistics execution to execute a site logistics process for a certain quantity of material by a certain time.

The business object uses a Request Site Logistics Processing from Site Log Request to Site Logistics Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Site Logistics operation . The operation is included in a Site Logistics Processing Out interface . The Request Site Logistics operation generates a Site Logistics Request Request message . The message is sent to the Site Logistics Processing process component in order to maintain the site logistics request.

The message is received by a Maintain Site Logistics Request operation . The operation is included in a Site Logistics Processing In interface . The Maintain Site Logistics Request operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Request inbound process agent to update a Site Logistics Request business object . The business object represents an internal request for site logistics to prepare and perform within a certain time period an outbound inbound or internal site logistics process.

The business object uses a Confirm Site Logistics Request to Logistic Execution Control outbound process agent to invoke a Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation which notifies the planning system of a reconciliation of a site logistics request confirmation. The operation generates a Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation Notification message . The message is received by a Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation . The operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent to update the Site Logistics Requisition business object .

Alternatively the Confirm Site Logistics Request to Logistic Execution Control outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Site Logistics Request operation which confirms receipt of the request and acknowledges quantities and delivery dates. The operation generates a Site Logistics Request Confirmation message which is sent to the Logistics Execution Control process component . The message is received by a Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation . The operation uses a Maintain Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics inbound process agent to update the Site Logistics Requisition business object . A Site Logistics Processing Out interface includes the Confirm Site Logistics Request operation and the Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation .

The Logistics Execution Control process component includes a Site Logistics Processing In interface . The Site Logistics Processing In interface includes the Change Site Logistics Requisition based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation operation and the Change Site Logistics Requisition Based on Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation .

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes a Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Sales Order business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Availability Information from Sales Order to Customer Requirements outbound process agent to invoke a Synchronous Request Product Availability Info and Provisional Reservation operation . The operation requests product availability information including the creation of a provisional reservation for a customer requirement e.g. a sales order from the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

Alternatively the Synchronous Request Product Availability Information from Sales Order to Customer Requirements outbound process agent can invoke a Register Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation . The operation registers a provisional requirement reservation for deletion and triggers deletion in case of failure or cancellation of transaction processing.

The Sales Order business object may also use a Request Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment from Sales Order to Customer Requirement outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation . The operation requests reservation and fulfillment information for a customer requirement e.g. a sales order . A Fulfillment Out interface includes the Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation the Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation and the Request Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation .

If the Request Product Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation is invoked a Product Available to Promise Check Request message is generated. The message is sent to the Customer Requirement Processing process component where it is received by a Synchronous Check Availability and Reserve operation . The message is a binding request to check the availability of specified amounts of specified materials at specified dates and to reply with a binding statement concerning which amounts of which materials are available at which dates. The operation checks the availability of certain amounts of certain materials and confirms this availability to the caller. The operation uses a Check Availability and Reserve inbound process agent to update a Customer Requirement business object . The Customer Requirement business object represents a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. It can include the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

A Product Available To Promise Check Confirmation message is sent back to the Sales Order Processing process component from the Synchronous Check Availability and Reserve operation to confirm the receipt of the request. The message is the confirmation of the availability of certain amounts of certain products at certain dates.

If the Register Product Customer Requirement Deletion Notification operation is invoked a Provisional Customer Requirement Deletion Notification message is generated. The message is sent to the Customer Requirement Processing process component where it is received by a Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation . The operation deletes provisional customer requirements that have been created by the Check Availability and Reserve operation . The operation uses a Maintain Customer Requirement process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The operation receives a customer requirement fulfillment request and updates the corresponding customer requirement instance in the Customer Requirement business object .

If the Request Product Customer Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation is invoked a Customer Requirement Fulfillment Request message is generated. The message is sent to the Customer Requirement Processing process component where it is received by a Maintain Customer Requirement operation that creates or changes a customer requirement. The message is a request to fulfill a sales order or the material flow relevant parts of a service order or to prepare the fulfillment or the change of cancellation of such a request. The operation creates or changes a customer requirement. The operation uses the Maintain Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object about the request deletion or fulfillment of the sales order. The Check Availability and Reserve operation the Delete Provisional Customer Requirement operation and the Maintain Customer Requirement operation are included in a Fulfillment In interface in the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

The Customer Requirement business object uses a Notify of Available Update from Customer Requirement outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Availability Update operation . The operation generates a Product Available To Promise Update Notification message . The message is sent to the Sales Order Processing process component . The operation notifies the creator of a customer requirement about an updated availability situation for the products requested within the customer requirement.

Alternatively the Sales Order business object may use Confirm Fulfillment of Customer Requirement outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation . The operation confirms the partial or complete fulfillment of a customer requirement to the creator of the requirement. The operation generates a Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message . The message is sent to the Sales Order Processing process component . A Fulfillment Out interface in the Customer Requirement Processing process component includes the Notify of Availability Update operation and the Confirm Fulfillment operation .

A Change Sales Order based on Product Available Update operation receives the Product Available To Promise Update Notification message . The operation changes the sales order with availability and reservation information based on changes in fulfillment planning. The operation uses a Change Sales Order based on Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

Alternatively a Change Sales Order based on Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation receives the Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation message . The operation updates a sales order with information from fulfillment confirmation. This may include for example an update of status and delivered quantity. The operation uses a Change Sales Order based on Customer Requirement inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

The Change Sales Order based on Product Available Update operation and the Product Customer Requirement Fulfillment Confirmation operation are included in a Fulfillment In interface in the Sales Order Processing process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes the Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are provided for shipping by a vendor. The business object uses a Notify of Outbound Delivery outbound process agent to invoke an Output Delivery Note operation . The operation is included in a Delivery Note Out interface . The operation sends a dispatched delivery notification to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component . The operation generates a Form Delivery Note Notification message that is sent to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Confirmation business object . The Site Logistics Confirmation business object can represent a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time e.g. inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations or progress status changes .

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object uses a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation . Alternatively a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation may be invoked. Both operations and are included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface .

The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation generates an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message . The message is sent to the Accounting process component . Alternatively the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation generates an Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The message is sent to the Accounting process component .

A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Accounting Notification message . The operation creates an accounting document. A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The operation cancels requests received. The operations and use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Inventory and Activity inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . The business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. Both operations and are included in an Inventory and Accounting In interface .

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Customer Requirement Processing 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The Customer Quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer is legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time. The Customer Quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Availability from Customer Quote to Customer Requirements outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Availability Information operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation can request product availability information for customer quote items. The Request Product Availability Information operation generates a Product Availability Query message . The message is sent to the Customer Requirement Processing process component .

A synchronous Check Availability operation receives the Product Availability Query message . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The operation uses a Check Availability inbound process agent to update the Customer Requirement business object . The message is a non binding query for the availability of specified amounts of specified products at specified dates. The operation checks the availability of certain amounts of materials at certain dates and sends this information back to the Customer Quote Processing process component . The Customer Requirement business object represents a requirement that is derived from a sales order quotation or service order and to which details on the anticipated availability date of materials required to fulfill the requirement may be added. It can include the quantities of materials required at specific dates as well as information about which materials will be available or delivered in which quantities at which dates.

The Check Availability operation may generate a Product Availability Response message . The message is received by the Request Product Availability Information operation in the Customer Quote Processing process component . The message is a non binding response about which amounts of products are available at which dates.

The Due Item Processing process component includes the Due Payment business object the Product Tax Declaration business object and the Tax Due Payment business object . The Due Payment business object represents a payment request or a payment confirmation related to trade receivables and payables from goods and services. The Product Tax Declaration business object represents a declaration of the product tax payables receivables of a company to the responsible tax authority according to the tax declaration arrangement and legal requirements that trigger the payment to the tax authority. The Tax Due Payment business object represents a payment request or payment confirmation with regard to tax payables and receivables.

The Due Payment business object uses the Synchronous Request Payment Reservation from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke one or more operations. The outbound process agent can invoke a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation a Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation and a Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in a Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation operation can request payment information with a provisional reservation of money in Payment Processing. The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation can request payment information with a change of provisional reservation of money in Payment Processing. The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation can register a change of a provisional payment to the last transactional or saved state.

The operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Request message . The operation can also receive a Payment Order Reservation Confirmation message . The message is generated by a Create Payment Reservation operation . The message is received by the Create Payment Reservation operation . The operation is included in a Payment Request In interface in the Payment Processing process component . The Create Payment Reservation operation can check and determine payment data and create a reservation of payment. After the reservation is created the operation can confirm the reservation creation to the caller.

The Payment Processing process component includes the Payment Order business object . The operation uses a Synchronous Maintain Payment Reservation inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object . The inbound process agent can create change and cancel the Payment Order business object for a reservation request. The Payment Order business object represents an order e.g. a collective instruction that contains several separate instructions within a company to make a payment to a business partner in a period of time.

The Request Payment Information and Provisional Payment Reservation Change operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Request message . The operation can also receive a Payment Order Reservation Change Confirmation message . The message is generated by a Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation . The message is received by the Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation . The operation is included in the Payment Request In interface of the Payment Processing process component . The Synchronous Change Payment Reservation operation can synchronously change a reservation of payment and confirm the change to the caller. After the reservation is changed the operation can confirm the reservation change to the caller. The operation uses the Synchronous Maintain Payment Reservation inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

The Notify of Provisional Payment Reservation Change Cancellation operation generates a Payment Order Reservation Change Cancellation Notification message . The message is received by a Change Payment Reservation operation . The operation is included in the Payment Request In interface . The Change Payment Reservation operation can change a reservation of payment and confirm the change to the caller. The operation uses a Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to create or update the Payment Order business object .

The Due Payment business object also uses a Request Payment from Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment operation or a Request Payment Cancellation operation . The operations and are included in the Payment Request Out interface . The Request Payment operation can send a request for payment to the Payment Processing process component . The request may confirm a provisional payment made before. The Request Payment Cancellation operation can cancel at least one provisional requested or ordered payment.

The Request Payment operation generates a Payment Order Request message . The message is received by a Create Payment Order operation . The operation is included in the Payment Request In interface . The Create Payment Order operation can create a request for payment. The operation uses the Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

The Request Payment Cancellation operation generates a Payment Order Cancellation Request message . The message is received by a Cancel Payment Order operation . The operation is included in the Payment Request In interface . The Cancel Payment Order operation can cancel a request for payment. The operation uses the Maintain Payment Order inbound process agent to update the Payment Order business object .

The Product Tax Declaration business object uses a Request Payment from Product Tax Declaration to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . The outbound process agent invokes the Request Payment operation to initiate a payment request. The outbound process agent invokes the Request Payment Cancellation operation to cancel a payment request.

The Payment Order business object uses a Confirm Payment Request from Payment Order to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Payment Request operation . The outbound process agent confirms a processing status of a payment to the sender of a payment request by invoking a Confirm Payment Request operation which is included in a Payment Request out interface . The Confirm Payment Request operation generates a Payment Order Confirmation message . The message is received by a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation . The Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation operation is included in a Payment Request In interface . The operation confirms the execution of a payment request or a payment request cancellation. The operation uses a Change Payment based on Payment Request Confirmation inbound process agent to update a processing status of the Due Payment business object or the Tax Due Payment business object based on the confirmation of a payment request or a payment request cancellation.

The Tax Due Payment business object uses a Request Payment from Tax Due Payment to Payment Processing outbound process agent to invoke the Request Payment operation or the Request Payment Cancellation operation . The outbound process agent invokes the Request Payment operation to initiate a payment request. The outbound process agent invokes the Request Payment Cancellation operation to cancel a payment request.

Interactions Between Process Components Purchase Order Processing at Customer and Sales Order Processing 

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes the Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price.

The Sales Order Processing process component receives messages from the payment Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component . A Purchase Order Request message is received by a Create Sales Order operation . The operation creates a sales order based on a new purchase order from the customer. The operation uses a Maintain Sales Order inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

A Purchase Order Change Request message is received by a Change Sales Order operation . The operation changes a sales order based on changes in a purchase order from a customer. The operation uses a Maintain Sales Order inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

A Purchase Order Cancellation Request message is received by a Cancel Sales Order operation . The operation cancels a sales order based on the cancellation of a purchase order from the customer. The operation uses a Maintain Sales Order inbound process agent to update the Sales Order business object .

The Create Sales Order operation the Change Sales Order operation and the Cancel Sales Order operation are included in an Ordering In interface . The Sales Order Processing process component receives information from a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Ordering Out interface sends information from the Sales Order Processing process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Sales Order business object invokes a Confirm Sales Order operation using a Confirm Sales Order to Customer outbound process agent . The operation is included in an Ordering Out interface . The operation confirms the sales order to the customer. The Ordering Out interface sends information to the Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component from a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Confirm Sales Order operation generates a Purchase Order Confirmation message which sends a sales order confirmation to the customer. The Confirm Sales Order operation generates a Form Purchase Order Confirmation message . The messages and are received by the Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component . The Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component receives information from the Sales Order Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party. The Purchase Order Processing at Customer process component sends information to the Sales Order Processing process component using a Processing At Business Partner Out XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner Out Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to a customer. The business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Due Item Processing outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation informs the Due Item process component about an invoice in order to derive payment due data. Alternatively a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked to notify the Due Item Processing process component about a cancellation of an invoice in order to also cancel the corresponding payment due data. The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface . The Notify of Invoice operation generates a Receivables Payables Notification message . The message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component . The Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation generates a Receivables Payables Cancellation Request message . The message is sent to the Due Item Processing process component .

The Receivables Payables Notification message is received by a Create Receivables Payables operation . The operation creates a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The Receivables Payables Cancellation Request message is received by a Cancel Receivables Payables operation . The operation cancels a trade and or tax receivable or payable. The operations and are included in a Receivables Payables In interface .

The operations and use a Maintain Trade and Tax Receivables Payables inbound process agent to update one or more of three business objects a Trade Receivables Payables Register business object a Tax Receivables Payables Register business object and the Due Clearing business object . The Trade Receivables Payables Register business object represents a register for all trade receivables and payables from goods and services of a company from to its business partners. The Tax Receivables Payables Register business object represents a register of tax receivables and payables of a company that are due for delivered goods and rendered services between buyers and sellers are due for the consumption of goods are due for the transfer of goods or are withheld from payments to sellers. The Due Clearing business object represents a group of receivables and payables for clearing.

Interactions Between Process Components Sales Order Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Sales Order Processing process component includes the Sales Order business object . The Sales Order business object represents an agreement between a seller and a customer concerning the sale and delivery of goods as well as any services that are associated with these processes on a specific date for a specific quantity and for a specific price. The Sales Order business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Sales Order to Financial Accounting Master Data outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface . The operation requests a product valuation.

The Request Product Valuation operation generates a Product and Resource Valuation Query message . The message is sent to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The message is received by a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation which is included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface . The operation is a synchronous access to price information for products.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation uses a Synchronous Valuate and Product Resource inbound process agent to update one of three business objects in the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component a Material Valuation Data business object a Service Product Valuation Data business object and a Resource Valuation Data business object . The Material Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a material or a material group for material inventory valuation and for cost estimation. The Service Product Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a service product or a service product group and for cost estimation. The Resource Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal cost rates for the valuation of business transactions related to a resource and for cost estimation.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation may generate a Product and Resource Valuation Response message . The message is sent to the Request Product Valuation operation in the Sales Order Processing process component .

The Inventory Processing process component includes an Inventory business object . The Inventory business object represents a quantity of all the materials in a location including the material reservations at this location. The business object uses a Notify of Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent to invoke a Notify Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation . The operation is included in an Inventory Reconciliation Out interface . The operation sends an inventory reconciliation to the Supply and Demand Matching process component . The operation generates a Planning View of Inventory Notification message .

The message is received by a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation operation . The operation is included in an Inventory Reconciliation In interface . The operation uses a Maintain Planning View of Inventory based on Inventory Reconciliation inbound process agent to update the Planning View of Inventory business object . The Planning View of Inventory business object represents a view of material stock aggregated at the level of the Supply Planning Area.

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Quote Processing and Financial Accounting Master Data Management 

As shown in the Customer Quote Processing process component includes a Customer Quote business object . The Customer Quote business object represents an offer by a seller to a customer for the delivery of goods or services according to fixed terms. The offer can be legally binding for the seller for a specific period of time. The Customer Quote business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Customer Quote to Financial Accounting Master Data outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Valuation operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface . The operation requests a product valuation.

The Request Product Valuation operation generates a Product and Resource Valuation Query message . The message is sent to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The message is received by a Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation In interface . The operation is a synchronous access to price information for products.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation uses a Synchronous Valuate and Product Resource inbound process agent to update one of a possible three business objects in the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component a Material Valuation Data business object a Service Product Valuation Data business object and a Resource Valuation Data business object . The Material Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a material or a material group for material inventory valuation and for cost estimation. The Service Product Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal prices for the valuation of business transactions related to a service product or a service product group and for cost estimation. The Resource Valuation Data business object represents an object that includes attributes and internal cost rates for the valuation of business transactions related to a resource and for cost estimation.

The Synchronous Valuate Product and Resource operation can generate a Product and Resource Valuation Response message . The message is sent to the Request Product Valuation operation in the Customer Quote Processing process component .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Task business object . The Bill of Exchange Payable business object represents a task for executing a logistics operation or activity within a site. For example the Site Logistics Task business object represents a piece of work to be performed by a person or an automated system.

The Site Logistics Task business object uses a Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output outbound process agent to request printing of a site logistics task list. The Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output outbound process agent invokes a Request Site Logistics Task Execution operation in a Site Logistics Task Output Out interface . For example the operation requests the printing of site logistics task instructions. The Request Site Logistics Task Execution operation sends a Form Site Logistics Task Execution Request message .

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Authorization and Settlement Processing at Clearing House 

As shown in the Payment Authorization process component includes a Payment Card Payment Authorization business object . The Payment Card Payment Authorization business object represents an authorization for a payment made using a payment card. It includes payment information e.g. a description of goods services purchased an authorization request and the result of the authorization request based on a response from a clearing house .

The Payment Card Payment Authorization business object uses a Request Payment Card Payment Authorization outbound process agent to invoke a Request Payment Authorization operation . The operation is included in a Payment Authorization Requesting Out interface . The Payment Authorization process component sends information using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Payment Authorization Requesting Out interface sends information to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Request Product Availability Information operation can request a clearing house for authorization of a payment made by a payment card. The Request Product Availability Information operation generates a Payment Card Payment Authorization Request message . The message can be sent to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component . The Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component can send a Payment Card Payment Authorization Confirmation message which is received by the Request Payment Authorization operation . The Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component receives information from the Payment Authorization process component using a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Due Item Processing and Settlement Processing at Clearing House 

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes a Dunning business object . The Dunning business object represents a reminder or demand from a company creditor to a business partner debtor to make a payment by a certain point in time.

The Dunning business object uses a Notify of Dunning to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Dunning operation . The operation is included in a Dunning Output Out interface . The operation can notify the business partner about outstanding payments. For example notification can involve sending a dunning letter or a payment reminder to the business partner changing the status of the dunning changes to Released. The operation generates a Form Dunning Notification message . The message can be sent to the Settlement Processing at Clearing House process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Customer Invoice Processing and Balance of Foreign Payment Management 

As shown in the Customer Invoice Processing process component includes the Customer Invoice business object . The Customer Invoice business object represents a binding statement of amounts receivable resulting for example from deliveries to a customer services performed for a customer adjustments to these receivables or credit memos to the customer.

The business object uses a Notify of Customer Invoice to Balance of Foreign Payments Management outbound processing agent to invoke a Notify of Invoice operation or a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . For example the operation can be used to inform about an invoice in order to track a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner. The operation can be used to inform about cancellation of an invoice in order to cancel information about a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner. The operations are included in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification Out interface . If the Notify of Invoice operation is invoked a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification message is generated and sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . If the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation is invoked a Foreign Receivable Payable Cancellation Notification message is generated and sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component .

A Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the Invoice Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting message . A Foreign Receivable Payable Notification In interface includes the Create Foreign Receivable Payable operation and the Cancel Foreign Receivable Payable operation . The operation can create a foreign receivable or payable. The operation can cancel a foreign receivable or payable.

The operations use a Maintain Foreign Receivable Payable inbound process agent to update a Foreign Receivable Payable business object . For example the update can be to create change or cancel a foreign receivable or payable. The Foreign Receivable Payable business object represents a receivable from or a payable to a non resident business partner.

As shown in the Pricing Engine process component includes a Price and Tax Calculation business object . The Price and Tax Calculation business object represents a summary of the determined price and tax components for a business case. The Price and Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Price and Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Product Tax Calculation operation . The Request Product Tax Calculation operation is included in an External Tax Calculation Out interface . The External Tax Calculation Out interface receives information from the External Tax Calculation process component using a Processing At Tenant In Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can provide information from an external party about a purchase order confirmation.

The Pricing Engine process component also includes a Tax Calculation business object . The Tax Calculation business object represents a summarization of the determined and calculated tax elements of a business case. The Tax Calculation business object uses a Synchronous Request Product Tax Calculation from Tax Calculation to External Tax Calculation synchronous outbound process agent to invoke the Request Product Tax Calculation operation .

The Request Product Tax Calculation operation can request product tax calculations from an external tax calculation system. The Request Product Tax Calculation operation generates an External Product Tax Calculation Request message . The External Product Tax Calculation Request message is received by the External Tax Calculation process component .

The Request Product Tax Calculation operation receives an External Product Tax Calculation Confirmation message from the External Tax Calculation process component . The External Tax Calculation process component sends information to the Pricing Engine process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

Interactions Between Process Components Payment Processing and Payment Processing at Business Partner 

As shown in the Payment Processing process component includes the Bill of Exchange Receivable business object . The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object represents a bill of exchange issued either by the company or by a business partner for the benefit of the company. The Bill of Exchange Receivable business object uses an Issue Bill Of Exchange Receivable to Business Partner outbound process agent to invoke an Issue Bill Of Exchange operation . The Issue Bill Of Exchange operation is included in a Bill Of Exchange Receivable Issuing Output Out interface . The operation sends a Form Bill Of Exchange Receivable Issue Request message . The Form Bill Of Exchange Receivable Issue Request message can be received by the Payment Processing at Business Partner process component .

Interactions Between Process Components Outbound Delivery Processing and Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer 

As shown in the Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes the Outbound Delivery business object . The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are provided for shipping by a vendor. The business object uses a Notify of Outbound Delivery to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Outbound Delivery operation . The operation is included in a Delivery Notification Out interface . The Outbound Delivery Processing process component sends information to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component using a Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The Delivery Notification Out sends information from the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component using the Processing At Tenant Out Web Services Reliable Messaging WSRM communication channel template . The communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

The Notify of Outbound Delivery operation generates a Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message and a Form Delivery Dispatch Advice Notification message . The messages can be received by the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component . The Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component receives information from a Processing At Business Partner In XI communication channel template . The Processing At Business Partner In Exchange Infrastructure XI communication channel template can define protocols and parameters used for communication with an external party.

As shown in the Due Item Processing process component includes the Dunning business object . The Dunning business object represents a reminder or demand from a company creditor to a business partner debtor to make a payment by a certain point in time. The Accounting process component includes the Accounting Notification business object . The Accounting Notification business object represents a notification sent to Financial Accounting by an operational component regarding a business transaction. It represents this operational business transaction in a standardized form for all business transaction documents and contains the data needed to valuate the business transaction. Updates in the Dunning business object can trigger messages to be sent to update the Accounting Notification business object .

An update in the Dunning business object may trigger a Notify of Dunning Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent . The Notify of Dunning Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Dunning Invoice operation or a Notify of Dunning Invoice Cancellation operation . The Notify of Dunning Invoice operation and the Notify of Dunning Invoice Cancellation operation are included in a Dunning Invoice Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Dunning Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent may invoke the Notify of Dunning Invoice operation to notify Accounting about dunning fees. The Notify of Dunning Invoice to Accounting outbound process agent may invoke the Notify of Dunning Invoice Cancellation operation to notify Accounting about the cancellation of dunning fees. The Notify of Dunning Invoice operation sends an Invoice Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Invoice Accounting Notification message can be a notification about the creation of a new supplier invoice or a change to an existing supplier invoice. The Notify of Dunning Invoice Cancellation operation sends an Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message to the Accounting process component . The Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message can be a notification about the cancellation of a supplier invoice.

The messages are received by operations in the Accounting process component . A Create Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Accounting Notification message . A Cancel Accounting Document operation receives the Invoice Cancellation Accounting Notification message . The Create Accounting Document operation creates an accounting document for a dunning invoice. For example the accounting document can record receivables for the invoice in Financial Accounting. The Cancel Accounting Document operation receives dunning accounting cancellation requests from the Due Item Processing process component . The operations are included in a Dunning Invoice Accounting In interface . The operations use a Maintain Accounting Document based on Dunning Invoice inbound process agent to update the Accounting Notification business object . For example the updates can change the status of dunning changes to released or canceled. 

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

