---

title: Method for fabrication of semiconductor devices on lightweight substrates
abstract: A method for making a semiconductor device having front-surface electrical terminals in which the device is manufactured so as to include a bottom electrode, a top electrode and a semiconductor body therebetween. A first bus bar is disposed in a groove in the semiconductor body. It is in electrical communication with the bottom electrode, and includes a tab portion which projects from the device. A second bus bar is in electrical communication with the top electrode, and is disposed atop the first electrode, and electrically insulated therefrom. The tab of the first bus bar provides one terminal of the device and is folded onto the second bus bar and is electrically insulated therefrom. The second bus bar provides the second terminal of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07638353&OS=07638353&RS=07638353
owner: United Solar Ovonic LLC
number: 07638353
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080603
---
This invention relates generally to thin film semiconductor devices. More specifically the invention relates to thin film semiconductor devices which are fabricated on thin flexible substrates. In particular the invention relates to lightweight thin film photovoltaic devices fabricated upon thin polymeric substrates.

Overall device weight is often a significant factor with regard to semiconductor devices used in specialized applications such as aerospace applications military applications or other applications where portability of the device is important. Overall device weight is particularly important with regard to large area devices such as photovoltaic devices. Hence there are significant incentives for the fabrication of large area lightweight photovoltaic and other semiconductor devices.

Thin film semiconductor materials are frequently used for the preparation of lightweight photovoltaic devices since they are flexible light in weight and can be readily deposited over large areas by high speed efficient deposition processes. In a typical thin film semiconductor device the substrate which supports the layers is the major component of the weight of the device. In those instances where weight is not significant substrates of glass ceramic or metal may be employed. However for lightweight and ultra lightweight applications thin substrates typically fabricated for polymeric materials or metal foils are preferred.

The use of thin lightweight substrates can complicate processes for the fabrication of photovoltaic devices particularly when those devices are being fabricated in a large volume high speed process. Therefore thin lightweight substrates are frequently used in combination with a relatively thicker support member which is subsequently removed after device fabrication is completed.

In most instances it is desirable that the positive and negative contact terminals for a photovoltaic device both be located so as to simplify its installation and use. In that regard it is desirable that the device have electrical connection points that occupy different positions along a cross section of the device. The affixation of current collecting structures such as grid members bus bars and terminals to a photovoltaic device can be complicated in those instances where a support member is employed. As will be explained hereinbelow the present invention provides methods and device structures whereby lightweight photovoltaic devices may be fabricated on a thin substrate member and wherein the devices are configured to have same surface terminals. These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent from the drawings discussion and description which follow.

Disclosed herein is a method for making a photovoltaic device. According to the method a substrate is provided and that substrate may be disposed upon a support body. A layer of an electrically conductive bottom electrode material is disposed on the substrate so as to form a bottom electrode a photovoltaic body is deposited in electrical communication with the bottom electrode a layer of top electrode material is deposited in electrical communication with a photovoltaic body so as to form a top electrode. In the foregoing construction the bottom electrode top electrode and photovoltaic body cooperate to provide a photovoltaic cell. In a further step a portion of the top electrode and photovoltaic body are removed so as to form an opening therethrough having a portion of the bottom electrode exposed therein. An electrically conductive bus bar having a tab portion defined thereupon is affixed to the material so that the bus bar is in electrical communication with the exposed portion of the bottom electrode and so that the tab portion is free. A body of electrically insulating material is disposed so as to cover the first bus bar. A plurality of grid members are disposed in electrical communication with the top electrode said grid members extending onto the insulating body. A second electrically conductive bus bar is disposed upon the insulating body in electrical communication with the grid members so that the second bus bar establishes electrical communication with the top electrode. The tab portion provides a terminal of the device and in some instances the tab is folded into a superposed relationship with the second bus bar and a portion of an electrically insulating material is disposed between the folded over tab portion and the second bus bar so as to prevent electrical contact therebetween. In some instances the portion of electrically insulating material may comprise a contiguous segment of the body of insulating material disposed at the top of the first bus bar in the previous step or in other instances it may comprise a separate insulating body.

In particular instances further steps may be implemented wherein a layer of protective material is disposed on the top electrode and or wherein at least a portion of the support material is removed from the substrate.

The support material may comprise a body of metal and it may be removed by etching. In other instances the support material may comprise a polymeric material and may be removed by etching cutting skiving or the like. The substrate of the device may comprise a body of polymeric material which in particular instances may comprise a polyimide. In specific instances the photovoltaic body includes at least one layer of a group IV semiconductor alloy material and such material may comprise a hydrogenated silicon germanium or silicon germanium alloy material. In particular instances the photovoltaic body is configured to include at least one triad of layers comprised of a substantially intrinsic body of semiconductor material interposed between oppositely doped layers of semiconductor material. In some instances the device may include a plurality of such triads stacked in an optical and electrical series relationship.

The present invention is directed to lightweight semiconductor devices fabricated upon thin substrates. The semiconductor devices may comprise photovoltaic devices and for purposes of illustration this invention will be explained with reference to one particular process for the fabrication of lightweight and ultra lightweight thin film photovoltaic devices however it is to be understood that the principles disclosed herein may be otherwise implemented and or used for the fabrication of other thin film semiconductor devices such as photosensors photoreceptors and the like as well as for non photoresponsive devices such as integrated circuits device arrays displays and the like.

Referring now to there is shown a cross sectional view of a body of photovoltaic material prepared for use in a process for the fabrication of a lightweight photovoltaic device. The photovoltaic material includes a body of support material which operates to retain all of the superjacent layers during various stages of the processing steps. As such the support body is relatively thick and has good dimensional stability. One specific material which may be utilized as the support body in this embodiment comprises stainless steel of approximately 5 mils thickness. Substrates of this type provide a good combination of tensile strength flexibility and dimensional stability which are compatible with high speed roll to roll processing techniques. Other substrate materials may comprise polymeric materials as well as rigid materials such as glass ceramics thicker metal bodies and the like in those instances where flexibility is not required.

A body of substrate material is retained upon the support member . The substrate material is typically a thin lightweight material and one specific substrate material comprises a thin high strength polymer having good thermal stability. Typical thicknesses are in the range of 0.5 to 2.0 ml. Such polymers include polyimides such as the material sold under the designation Kapton by the DuPont Corporation. And in one particular instance the substrate comprises a polyimide layer of 1 mil thickness. In some instances the substrate may comprise a metallic body. In any instance the substrate is affixed to the support as for example by adhesive lamination thermal lamination or the like.

In the illustrated embodiment a layer of stress relief material is interposed between the support member and substrate . This layer will remain affixed to the substrate in the completed device and operates to balance stresses imposed on the substrate by superjacent layers of the device. Such layers as well as methods for their fabrication and use are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 176 543 and the disclosure hereof is incorporated herein by reference. It is to be understood that this layer is optional and furthermore other layers of material may be readily incorporated between the substrate and support in a similar manner.

Disposed atop the substrate is a layer of a bottom electrode material . The material of this layer is electrically conductive and will form the base electrode of the photovoltaic device. This layer should have good electrical conductivity and is typically fabricated from a metal although other materials such as polymers metal oxides and the like having sufficient electrical conductivity may also be employed. In those instances where the photovoltaic device is illuminated from its top surface this bottom electrode layer may also be made from a highly reflective material so as to function as a back reflector operative to direct unabsorbed light back through the subjacent photovoltaic material. The bottom electrode layer may be a composite body fabricated from a plurality of layers of different materials chosen to combine optimum electrical and optical properties. In one instance the bottom electrode layer comprises a highly reflective layer of silver having an optical tuning layer of a transparent electrically conductive material such as zinc oxide thereatop. As is known in the art this combination of layers may be chosen so as to optimize both electrical conductivity and absorption of light by superjacent semiconductor layers. Such composite back reflectors are shown for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 296 043 and 5 569 332 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A photovoltaic body is disposed atop the bottom electrode . This photovoltaic body is operative to absorb incident photons and generate carrier pairs in response thereto. There are a variety of photovoltaic materials and configurations which may be utilized to fabricate the photovoltaic body . One specific group of materials comprises group IV semiconductor materials which specifically include hydrogenated alloys of silicon and or germanium. In particular these materials may be configured to form one or more triads wherein each triad comprises a layer of substantially intrinsic semiconductor material interposed between oppositely doped layers of semiconductor material. In a triad of this type carrier pairs generated in the substantially intrinsic layer of semiconductor material are separated by an internal field generated by the respective doped layers so as to create a photovoltaic current. The triads may be stacked in an optical and electrical series relationship to produce a multi junction device as is known in the art. While the invention is being described with reference to one particular class of photovoltaic devices and materials it is to be understood that the principles of the invention may be implemented in connection with any photovoltaic device and material.

Disposed atop the photovoltaic body is a layer of top electrode material . In those instances where the photovoltaic device is to be illuminated through the top surface this top electrode material is preferably transparent and as such may comprise a transparent electrically conductive oxide material such as indium tin oxide ITO as is known in the art. Other such transparent electrically conductive materials may likewise be employed and the invention is not limited to any specific top electrode material. It is to be noted that in the illustration the photovoltaic body is shown as being in direct electrical contact with the bottom electrode layer and top electrode layer however in some device configurations intermediate layers such as current buffering layers matching layers and the like may be included hence while the photovoltaic body is in electrical communication with the electrode layers and direct electrical contact is not required. In the operation of the device the photovoltaic body top electrode layer and bottom electrode layer cooperate to provide a photovoltaic cell in which absorption of light in the photovoltaic body creates and separates carrier pairs which are collected by the electrode layers.

The material of may be prepared in large areas by high volume techniques such as roll to roll methods. For subsequent processing the material is typically cut into smaller size areas corresponding to finished cells or modules. Referring now to there is shown the material of at a first stage in its processing. In this stage a first groove is formed in the material so as to extend through the top electrode layer and photovoltaic body . This groove exposes a portion of the bottom electrode at its base. The groove may be formed by a variety of techniques and one specific technique which may be utilized comprises chemical etching. This etching may be implemented in the case of semiconductor devices comprised of a top electrode layer of indium tin oxide or the like and a semiconductor body of hydrogenated silicon and or germanium layers by the use of a product commercially available under the designation SolarEtch Si from Merck KGaA.

As will be seen in a second groove is etched into the device. This groove extends only through the first electrode layer and serves to form a perimeter around a photovoltaically active area of the device. This groove limits lateral conductivity in the finished device and thus serves to electrically isolate portions of the photovoltaic cell bounded thereby.

Referring now to there is shown a top plan view of a body of photovoltaic material which is being configured into a thin film photovoltaic device in accord with the present invention. The material is of the type shown in and is a cross sectional view thereof taken along line . As will be seen from the second groove bounds a perimeter of the active area which is covered by a portion of the top electrode material while the first groove extends along one edge of the body of material outside of the bounded perimeter. It will also be seen that a third groove generally similar to the first groove is disposed on the opposite side of the perimeter.

Referring now to there are shown further stages in the processing of the device. is a cross sectional view of the material taken along line of . As will be seen in a first bus bar is disposed in the first groove . This bus bar is in electrical contact with the bottom electrode in this instance via a body of electrically conductive adhesive . In other embodiments the bus bar may be affixed to the bottom electrode by welds or the like. The bus bar is fabricated from a material having good electrical conductivity and one such material comprises a copper ribbon having a silver coating thereupon. While the first bus bar is shown as being entirely within the groove it may likewise be disposed only partially in the groove or it may be disposed separate from the groove provided that it establishes electrical communication with the bottom electrode material . It should also be noted that another first bus bar is likewise disposed in the third groove of the device as illustrated in . It should also be noted that for purposes of illustration the relative thicknesses of the semiconductor layers and electrode layers have been greatly exaggerated. In most actual implementations these layers will be very thin compared to the thickness of the bus bar substrate and support.

In a subsequent step of the process a body of an electrically insulating material is disposed atop the first bus bar . Referring now to there is shown a top plan view of the photovoltaic material having an insulating tape disposed atop the first bus bar. As will be seen the tape also covers the tab portion of the bus bar in this particular implementation of the invention. The insulating material may be adhesively affixed to the bus bar and in particular instances a body of double sided adhesive tape may be utilized as the insulating body. However in other instances single sided adhesive tape may be likewise employed as may be other insulating bodies which can be otherwise affixed to the bus bar.

In subsequent steps grid wires and a second bus bar are affixed to the device. Referring now to there is shown a cross sectional view of the photovoltaic material with the insulating tape affixed over the first bus bar . As will be seen the insulating tape extends beyond the periphery of the bus bar and abuts the perimeter of the active area of the device as defined by the second groove in the top electrode . As further shown in a grid wire extends across the surface of the top electrode and this grid wire is carried up and onto the insulating body . The grid wire is one of a number of grid wires which are typically disposed across the active area of the photovoltaic device. These wires serve to carry photogenerated electrical current from the top electrode. Typically the grid wires are fabricated from a material having good electrical conductivity and one particular material utilized in the present invention comprises a core of copper wire coated with a layer of silver and having a further coating on the outer surface of an electrically conductive curable adhesive.

In the embodiment a second bus bar is disposed upon the insulating tape in electrical contact with the grid wire . This second bus bar serves to establish electrical communication with the top electrode via the grid wires . In those instances where the adhesive used to attach the grid wires and or the adhesive associated with the insulating body is a curable adhesive the method involves the further step of curing that adhesive so as to accomplish the bonding of the elements of the device. In some embodiments the adhesive utilized is a contact adhesive and the curing step is thus not necessary.

Referring now to there is shown a top view of a photovoltaic device fabricated in accord with the foregoing general procedure. The device includes a photovoltaically active area having a plurality of grid wires such as grid wire as described above extending across the top electrode surface thereof. This device is configured as previously described so that tab portions of a first bus bar are exposed on the upper surface of the device where they function as a first set of electrical terminals. In a typical embodiment in which the photovoltaic device includes a photovoltaically active body of silicon material these terminals will be the negative terminal of the device. The exposed portions of the second bus bars function as the second set of terminals and in this instance they are positive terminals. It should be noted that in otherwise configured photovoltaic devices the polarity of the terminals may be reversed.

It is also to be noted that in the embodiment the device includes two negative terminals and two positive terminals . In other configurations the device may readily be configured to include a larger or smaller number of terminals. For example a device may include only one terminal of each polarity while in other instances it may include more than two terminals of each polarity. All of such embodiments are within the scope of this invention.

Generally it is preferable that the top surface of the thus produced photovoltaic device is provided with a durable protective layer and this regard a front protective layer of a transparent material is spray coated onto the device so as to cover the bus bar structure grid wires and top surface of the photovoltaic device. Materials and techniques for preparing the front protective layer are well known in the art and other techniques such as lamination may also be used. Provision is made for electrical communication with the tab and second bus bar .

While the device may be used in the as made form as discussed above a particular advantage of the techniques disclosed herein is that they may be utilized for the fabrication of lightweight and ultra lightweight devices. In that regard a further step is typically implemented wherein a support member for example member in is wholly or partially removed from the remainder of the device. There are a variety of techniques which may be utilized for the removal of the support member. In some instances where the support member is metal chemical etchants such as acids may be employed. In one particular instance the support member is fabricated from steel and it is removed by the use of a ferric chloride etchant. In other instances the support member may be comprised of a body of polymeric material and may be removed by the use of appropriate solvents. In yet other instances the support member may be affixed to the substrate by a separable adhesive and may be removed by peeling away and such removal may be facilitated by the use of a skiving blade a laser beam or other such means known in the art.

While the foregoing has described a process in which a substrate is disposed upon a support it will be apparent that the basic fabrication process may also be used in conjunction with substrates that are not affixed to a support. Such modifications and variations will have utility in particular instances and may be readily implemented by those of skill in the art.

Numerous modifications and variations of the foregoing may be implemented in view of the teaching presented herein. For example the techniques disclosed herein may be utilized to fabricate large area arrays comprised of a number of interconnected photovoltaic devices. Such interconnections may be in a series parallel or mixed series parallel relationship selected so as to optimize voltage and current output of the module. Also while the invention has been described primarily with reference to photovoltaic devices clearly the techniques disclosed herein may be utilized to fabricate other types of semiconductor devices wherein single surface contacts to electrodes are desired in a lightweight or ultra lightweight device. As mentioned above these other devices can include photoresponsive and photoemissive devices as well as device arrays circuits sensors and the like. Also it is to be understood that it is within the level of skill of one in the art to utilize materials and configurations other than those precisely shown herein.

In view of the foregoing it is to be understood that the drawings discussion and description presented herein are illustrative of specific embodiments of the invention but are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

