---

title: Remote diagnosis of unauthorized hardware change
abstract: Aspects describe remotely diagnosing unauthorized hardware changes on a mobile device. The changes can be identified based on hardware component identification and/or based on behavior characteristics of the device. If an unauthorized change is detected, information relating to that change can be reported to a service provider. Further, actions associated with the authorized change can be automatically implemented or implemented after confirmation to proceed with the recommended action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08245315&OS=08245315&RS=08245315
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08245315
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080910
---
The following description relates generally to mobile devices and more particularly to hardware changes on a mobile device.

Technological advances have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there exists a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. Consumers are increasingly offered many types of electronic devices that can be provisioned with an array of software applications and hardware devices. Distinct features such as email Internet browsing game playing address book calendar media players electronic book viewing voice communication directory services and so forth increasingly are selectable applications that can be loaded on a multi function device such as a smart phone portable game console hand held computer and so on.

With these technological advances more and more people desire more and more features to be associated with the personal computing devices. For example increased memory capabilities increased processing speed longer battery life and so forth are being demanded. However at times a demand for these added features might not correspond with a desire to purchase those features. As such some personal computing devices might be modified to include features that are not authorized by a device manufacture service provider and the like which can result in associated losses experienced by such entities. In some other situations unauthorized changes can result in damage to the device and or injury to the device user. Thus there exists a need in the art to monitor for such unauthorized changes to mitigate loss to the device user as well as other entities associated with providing device services.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with detecting unauthorized hardware changes on a mobile device. The unauthorized change is defined by a configurable policy and a control or restriction can be applied to the device based on the configurable policy and the type of unauthorized change.

According to an aspect is a method for diagnosing an unauthorized hardware change. The method includes detecting a hardware change on a mobile device and determining the hardware change is an unauthorized change. The method also includes performing an action based on the unauthorized change.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that includes a memory and a processor. The memory retains instructions related to detecting a change on a mobile device ascertaining the change is unauthorized and performing an action based on the unauthorized change. The processor is coupled to the memory and configured to execute the instructions retained in the memory.

Still another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that detects an unauthorized change to a device. The wireless communications apparatus includes a means for identifying a change to a device and a means for establishing that the change is unauthorized. The wireless communications apparatus also includes a means for implementing an action based on the unauthorized change.

Yet another aspect relates to a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to detect a change on a mobile device based on a component identification a behavior characteristic or combinations thereof. The computer readable medium also includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to determine the change is unauthorized and a third set of codes for causing the computer to perform an action based on the unauthorized change. The action includes transmitting information to a user to a service provider or to both the user and the service provider.

Another aspect relates to at least one processor configured to diagnose an unauthorized change. The processor includes a first module for identifying a change on a device and a second module for establishing that the change is unauthorized. The processor also includes a third module for communicating information to a user a service provider or to both the user and the service provider and a fourth module for selectively implementing an action as a function of a policy associated with the unauthorized change a user response a service provider response or combinations thereof.

Another aspect relates to a method for remotely diagnosing changes to a mobile device. The method includes receiving notification that an unauthorized change has been made to a mobile device. The notification includes a recommended action. The method also includes evaluating the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of an implementation policy and communicating an approval or rejection of the recommended action to the mobile device.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that includes a memory and a processor. The processor is coupled to the memory and is configured to execute the instructions retained in the memory. The memory retains instructions related to receiving from a mobile device a recommended action to be performed based on an unauthorized change implemented on the mobile device evaluating the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of implementation policy and sending approval or rejection of the recommended action.

Still another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that remotely detects unauthorized changes on a device. The wireless communications apparatus includes a means for receiving notification that an unauthorized change has been made to a device the notification includes a recommended action. The unauthorized change is a hardware change a circuitry change or combinations thereof. The wireless communications apparatus also includes a means for reviewing the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of implementation policy and a means for communicating an approval or rejection of the recommended action to the device.

A further aspect relates to a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive from a device a recommended action to be performed based on an unauthorized change implemented on the device. The unauthorized change is a hardware change a circuitry change or combinations thereof. The computer readable medium also includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to evaluate the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of implementation policy and a third set of codes for causing the computer to send approval or rejection of the recommended action wherein the rejection includes an alternative action.

Still another aspect relates to at least one processor configured to diagnose unauthorized changes on a mobile device. The processor includes a first module for receiving notification that an unauthorized change has been made to a mobile device the notification includes a recommended action and a second module for evaluating the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of implementation policy. The processor also includes a third module for communicating an approval or rejection of the recommended action to the device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.

As used in this application the terms module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a mobile device. A mobile device can also be called and may contain some or all of the functionality of a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile wireless terminal device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device wireless communication apparatus user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a smart phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a handheld communication device a handheld computing device a satellite radio a wireless modem card and or another processing device for communicating over a wireless system. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and can also be called and may contain some or all of the functionality of an access point Node B or some other network entity.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring now to illustrated is a system that can detect and diagnose unauthorized hardware changes. Various changes can be made to a mobile device that result in safety issues or that result in circumventing restrictions placed on the mobile device by a service provider device manufacturer and so forth. For example a mobile device with a limited amount of memory capabilities e.g. 4 megabytes might be purchased at a lower cost than a device with higher memory capabilities e.g. 8 megabytes . If the user attempts to increase the memory capabilities it can result in damage to the service provider or device manufacturer since the user has circumvented the restrictions e.g. less memory capability for a lower cost associated with the purchased device. In another example a user might change a battery and intentionally or unintentionally use a battery with increased voltage which can result in a safety issue e.g. device can overheat battery can explode . System can detect these and other changes that can result in damage to the device user the device the device provider and or the service provider.

System includes a mobile device that is configured to communicate over a network with other devices a service provider and so forth and to perform various functions related to the communication and or data exchange. Included in mobile device is a detection module that can monitor changes to the mobile device . The changes can be changes to hardware circuitry or other aspects of mobile device . A comparator can be configured to evaluate an identification of the new hardware behavior characteristics of the device and or other modifications or combinations thereof to determine whether the detected change is an authorized change or an unauthorized change.

In further detail detection module can determine that a change was made based on an identification associated with a new hardware component e.g. information received directly from the hardware component . When a new hardware component is installed on device information associated with that hardware can be gathered e.g. received requested by an identification ID receiver module . For example when a new battery is installed on mobile device the new battery can send its identification e.g. model number manufacturer voltage and so on to ID receiver module . Based on the identification information detection module can ascertain if the new hardware is different hardware e.g. different voltage different manufacturer or a direct replacement for old hardware e.g. the same model number as the previous battery . If the new battery has a different model number it might indicate an unauthorized hardware change.

In accordance with some aspects the determination that a change was made can be based on observed activities associated with the mobile device e.g. processor is over clocking or running too fast . Parameters associated with expected activities can be maintained in an activity parameter listing which can be retained locally on mobile device and or can be obtained over the network . The activity parameter listing can be dynamically updated based on a request for an update and or based on scheduled updates that are automatically sent to the device or based on other considerations e.g. software update to device that changes activities of the device .

If a change is detected based on evaluation of the component identifier and or activity detection comparator can evaluate the change to determine whether the change is an authorized change or an unauthorized change. Comparator can include a listing of component identifiers which can include OEM component identifiers and or identifiers of suitable replacement components e.g. after market components OEM supported hardware a suitable replacement and so forth . The information gathered by ID receiver module e.g. hardware ID can be compared against information in the component identifier listing . If the information e.g. hardware ID matches the listing of approved component identifiers it indicates that the change is authorized. If the information does not match the listing of approved component identifiers it indicates that the change is unauthorized and or that more information is needed to make a determination e.g. component identifier listing should be updated further information from the user is needed and so forth .

The component identifier listing can be updateable wherein information is pushed to the device from the network and or pulled from the network . For example at specified intervals e.g. daily weekly monthly when a listing associated with device is updated the information can be automatically sent to the mobile device . Further mobile device can request an updated listing based on various criteria e.g. a new list has not been received lately a new hardware device is detected that is not included in the listing maintained by device and so forth .

The component identifier listing can include identification of only components that are compatible and or approved for use with mobile device . However in accordance with some aspects components that are not approved and or are not compatible with mobile device can be identified in the component identifier listing as unapproved components. Utilization of a listing that includes unapproved components can result in quicker detection of unapproved components especially in situations where a critical failure or safety issue might result from use of the unapproved component.

In accordance with some aspects the component identifier listing is not retained at mobile device but is accessible over the network which can conserve resources e.g. storage space on mobile device . If the component identifier listing is not maintained on mobile device when comparator needs to determine whether the component is authorized a message is sent to an application in the network . This message can include the component identifier and a request for information relating to the identifier and or information related to whether the component is approved for use with the mobile device e.g. based on mobile device model number based on services purchased for the mobile device and so forth . In response to the request an indication can be received specifying whether the component is authorized or unauthorized.

In accordance with some aspects comparator evaluates the behavior of the new hardware and or circuitry changes to ascertain if the behaviors substantially conform to expected and authorized behaviors. The behavior is referred to herein as behavior characteristics and relates to the fact that a hardware component should behave in a particular manner. Comparator can include behavior characteristics related to various behaviors that mobile device should exhibit. The behavior characteristics can be dynamically updated such as over the air. For example a user might purchase applications and or updated hardware for use with the mobile device . At substantially the same time as the product e.g. application hardware is purchased information associated with the mobile device can be updated and sent to the device over the network . In such a manner comparator can expect a change to the device which can be substantially different from the device parameters e.g. behavior characteristics as originally purchased e.g. extended memory purchased although generally this model of device does not have an extended memory and so forth . For example a behavior characteristic of a Read Only Memory ROM can be that the device should respond with information within a certain interval or range of time e.g. milliseconds . If the ROM responds too quickly it can indicate that the behaviors of the ROM were modified a factory installed ROM replaced and so forth e.g. a malfunctioning component .

According to some aspects the identification and the behavior characteristics are monitored and utilized independently and if there is a change to either or both it can indicate unauthorized device changes. In accordance with some aspects both the identification and the behavior characteristics are utilized together to determine if unauthorized changes have been made to the device. For example a new battery may be available which is an approved battery however the information that comparator utilizes to determine if the battery is acceptable has not been updated to reflect the new battery information e.g. new model number . In this situation comparator can ascertain that the battery identification is not the identification of an approved battery. However comparator also reviews the battery behavior characteristics and determines that the battery operates as expected approved. In this situation comparator can determine that the battery is acceptable. According to some aspects comparator can dynamically request information over the network relating to the new hardware component e.g. battery . A reply can be received in response to the information request either approving the change or rejecting the change. The response information can be retained such as in component identifier listing .

In accordance with some aspects a time interval between when a potential unauthorized change and confirmation of whether the change is authorized or unauthorized can be provided. For example a battery is replaced and the battery ID gathered by ID receiver module is not found e.g. potentially an unauthorized battery . However there is a connectivity issue e.g. the device is in an area with limited or no wireless coverage and device cannot communicate with the network . In this situation the user is presented with information related to the potential unauthorized change e.g. The recently installed battery needs to be confirmed for compatibility with this device. and the user is given an amount of time to connect to the network and confirm compatibility e.g. Please resolve connection problem within 5 hours to confirm compatibility. If compatibility is not confirmed this device will only be available for emergency communications after 5 hours. In such a manner there user is aware that there might be a problem with the device and is provided the opportunity to resolve connectivity issues in order to resolve the problem.

There can be different levels of severity associated with the various unauthorized changes that can be made to the device . The action that is taken e.g. limiting functionality of the device restricting usage of the device and so forth can be a function of the severity level and can be expressed as policies or rules. In accordance with some aspects the policies or rules can be remotely configurable such that the policies or rules can be dynamically updated. The policies or rules can indicate categories such as policies that protect a business model e.g. increasing memory policies that relate to user safety and or policies that protect data on the phone from theft and so forth.

Various actions can be performed as a function of detecting an unauthorized change. According to some aspects the actions can be performed based on an implementation policy that associates an action with an unauthorized change. In accordance with some aspects the implementation policy is dynamically updateable over the air and or can be manually overridden e.g. when an authorized third party or service provider has physical access to the device .

Examples of actions that can be performed include limiting usage of the device to emergency usage suspending a subset of applications running on the device restricting at least one device action and or suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change. Another action that can be performed includes logging and reporting information associated with the unauthorized change to a service provider a user or both the service provider and the user. In accordance with some aspects the action can include prompting a user to solve a connectivity problem during a specified amount of time and or prompting the user for information associated with the unauthorized change.

The various actions that can be performed can be classified into a number of categories. For example a category can include gathering information related to the unauthorized change and or reporting information related to the change to the user and or a service provider. The gathering and or reporting can occur without interrupting device activity e.g. the user can continue to utilize the device .

Another category can relate to requesting information from the user related to the detected unauthorized change. For example after detecting an unauthorized change a prompt can be sent to the user for further information related to the change e.g. a request for the user to enter an authorization code in a user interface associated with the device . A further category can relate to requesting information from a service provider in order to obtain authorization of the change. For example a request can be sent to the service provider or an authorized third party to confirm whether the change is acceptable. Further information related to various actions that can be taken will be provided below.

Also included in mobile device is a management module that is configured to selectively manage operation of the device if an unapproved hardware and or circuitry modification has been detected. Management of the device can include powering down the device if a critical situation has developed that relates to safety of the device user e.g. critical type of change . In this situation a limited amount of time might be available to notify the user of the unsafe condition and allow the user to use the device for a limited amount of time e.g. to make an urgent phone call . In another example it might be determined that the device is overheating and therefore the device is powered down immediately to mitigate damage to the user and or device .

In accordance with some aspects if safety issues are not a factor and no other critical issues exist e.g. low impact type of change changes that affect a business model and so forth management module can selectively control the operation of the changed hardware and or circuitry. For example if a display has been changed with a display having a higher resolution which is determined to be unauthorized for this device management module can limit the display resolution to the amount of resolution that is authorized. In another example if the processor is over clocking instead of changing the clock speed management module can modify one or more parameters so that the operating system OS is operating in a low priority mode. Operation in the low priority mode can cause the processing of data to take a little longer however there are less CPU cycles utilized to process the data. Thus even through the processor is over clocking the CPU is not operating at full speed e.g. high priority mode which can be dangerous and cause safety issues.

Additionally or alternatively a report log interface can be included on mobile device . Report log interface can be configured to gather information related to detected changes both authorized and unauthorized and report the information to a service provider over the network . Further report log interface can provide information as to what action is to be performed by management module and why that action will be performed.

For example before powering down the device report log interface sends a message to a user and or a user manager e.g. service provider reporting the current situation and the action that will be performed e.g. device will be powered down . The user can be prompted to obtain connectivity if there is a communication problem. For example if there is a connectivity issue confirmation of whether a change is authorized or unauthorized might not be available. Further confirmation of actions that should be taken or policies associated with the detected change might not be accessible from the network . The user might also be prompted for information relating to the change e.g. license key and so forth . The user can be given a period of time during which to provide the information or to resolve a connectivity problem.

Based on the reported information the service provider has information relating to the action and the reason for the action and can respond to the information. For example if the device is powered down e.g. turned off the user might contact the service provider to report that the device is not working. The service provider can review the information received from report log interface and advise the customer the reason why there is no service e.g. incorrect size battery is creating a safety issue .

It should be understood that powering down the device is just one type of action that can be performed by management component based on the unauthorized change. Other actions can be performed such as impeding certain behaviors or device actions limiting certain actions and so forth. In accordance with some aspects when an unauthorized change is detected the device is placed into a mode wherein all functionality is disabled expect the functionality that allows report log interface to report information to a service provider and or other functionality associated with detecting unauthorized changes e.g. other applications are suspended . If the service provider authorizes the change made by the user the service provider can enable the device over the air through the subset of enabled functionality. For example if memory is upgraded the user can be prompted for information related to the upgrade e.g. credit card number for payment associated with the upgrade . At substantially the same time as the information is received and the change is authorized full access can once again be provided e.g. applications temporarily suspended are activated .

In accordance with some aspects before at least a subset of actions are performed that restrict or limit device usage e.g. after providing an amount of time for connectivity issues to be resolved after prompting user for authentication information such as a license payment verification and so forth a report is sent to the service provider. At substantially the same time as the report is sent a confirmation is sent asking if the recommended action should be carried out by management module . Management module can be associated with or have access to policies that provide management module with information e.g. policies rules about how to proceed based on the circumstances e.g. a case by case analysis related to the unauthorized change. The policies can be dynamically updated over the air. The policies can relate to various categories such as a business model user safety theft protection and so forth.

In accordance with some aspects the unauthorized changes can be classified as more detrimental or serious than other an unauthorized changes that can have a lower impact e.g. critical type low impact type business model user protection theft protection and so forth . The classification of the unauthorized changes can be specified by the policy . For example some changes e.g. related to a business model policy might require permission before the management module carries out the action e.g. restricting device usage while other changes e.g. illegal downloading of games movies and so forth can result in actions that are automatically implemented by management module . A trigger for requesting approval can be anytime the management component is about to take some action based on something it detects happening on the device that is outside of a threshold e.g. authorized or where there is information that does not match approved information e.g. component identification does not match approved listing behavior characteristics are not expected and so forth . In accordance with some aspects the policy can be dynamically updated over the air.

For example before powering down the device a policy or rule might indicate that verification or approval is needed before performing the action. Thus a report and request can be sent by report log interface . If a response is received indicating that the recommended action e.g. turning off the device is acceptable management component can proceed. If the response is that the recommended action is not acceptable management component does not proceed and in accordance with some aspects an alternative action can be implemented by service component and carried out by management component .

In accordance with some aspects confirmation is not requested before a particular action e.g. limiting a subset of device functionality is implemented. For example if a user is illegally downloading games the policies can indicate that all game usage is restricted or usage of a 3D module is restricted e.g. the 3D module is utilized to play the illegally downloaded games . In this situation confirmation might not be requested before some functionality of the device is limited or restricted.

According to some aspects the user is prompted for information related to the change. Some actions that might be implemented can have a negative effect such as turning off the device. In this situation either or both the user and the service provider can receive the report and the recommended action before that action is implemented. In accordance with this aspect the user can be provided the opportunity to prove that the change is authorized. For example the user can be notified that a higher resolution display has been detected and in order to retain the usage of the higher resolution the user needs to prove that the display was purchased. The user can be prompted for a license key or another manner of providing that it was an authorized purchase.

Additionally or alternatively machine learning and reasoning can be employed to automatically infer and implement actions. For example machine learning and reasoning can be employed to evaluate behavior characteristics and or user activity on the device in order to determine what is typical behavior of the user and or the device and to infer changes to that behavior over time. Machine learning and reasoning can also be employed to implement one or more actions based on observed changes. The one or more actions can include but are not limited to prompting a user to resolve connectivity problems prompting a user to provide information e.g. license key related to a particular change limiting usage of the device suspending all but a subset of device applications and so forth.

At least one mobile communication device includes a detection module that monitors the communication device to determine if a change has been made to one or more hardware components a circuit or other device parameters. A comparator is configured to determine whether the detected change is an authorized change or an unauthorized changed. The determination can be made based on a hardware identification a behavior characteristic or combinations thereof.

Further communication device can include a management module that can recommend an action based on an unauthorized changed to the communication device . A report log interface can communicate the change e.g. both authorized and unauthorized to a service provider and or the user. Additionally report log interface can provide information relating to the recommended action and request approval of the action. Management module can automatically implement the action and or can wait for approval of the action before proceeding. In accordance with some aspects the determination of what action to recommend and or whether to automatically proceed or wait for approval can be made based on one or more policies.

A mobile communication device integrator can be configured to monitor authorized changes and or unauthorized changes to mobile communication device . Mobile communication device integrator can be configured to receive notification that an unauthorized change has been made to mobile device . The unauthorized change is a hardware change a circuitry change or combinations thereof. The notification includes a recommended action. Mobile communication device integrator can evaluate the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of implementation policy and communicate an approval or rejection of the recommended action to the mobile device. In accordance with some aspects mobile communication device integrator transmits the implementation policy to the mobile device when there is a change to the implementation policy when a request for the implementation policy is received from the mobile device or combinations thereof. If the recommended action is rejected the communication can include an alternative action to be implemented. According to various aspects the recommended action or the alternative action comprises one or more of limiting usage of the device to emergency usage suspending a subset of applications running on the mobile device restricting at least one mobile device action and or suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change.

Mobile communication device integrator can be associated with network or can be managed by a third party. For example if the device is utilized to connect to the Internet monitoring can indicate whether a laptop computer is connected to the Internet though device based on a traffic activity that is above a threshold level or traffic that is not related to the device . If unauthorized activity is detected e.g. connecting a laptop to the Internet the carrier or a third party can disable or limit the amount of traffic allowed e.g. only a certain number of megabytes each month. Thus report log interface can monitor the activity which enables a third party to make adjusted on their end e.g. limiting the amount of Internet traffic based on the provided information.

The changes can be retained by data collection processes stored in a change tracking database . The information relating to the tracked changes can provide information e.g. gathered anonymously for device manufactures and or service providers to meet consumer needs and desires. For example based on the retained changes determinations can be made based on further device parameters e.g. should devices be provided with more memory faster CPU processing capabilities and so forth .

Further mobile communication device integrator can include an analyze component that selectively approves or denies an action recommended by a management component . If the action is not approved an alternative action can be supplied and carried out by management component .

In accordance with some aspects information related to whether the change is authorized or unauthorized can be presented to the user though a display or through another means e.g. speaker LCD LED lights blinking in a certain sequence and so forth . For example if the change is authorized the user can be presented with information that the change is accepted. If the change is unauthorized the user can be presented with information that the change will not be applied the mobile communication device will be turned off or other actions that will be made. The user can be provided with an opportunity to provide information relating to the change e.g. one hour five hours ten hours one day a week and so forth . The user can confirm the change through interaction with a key board or another user interface means.

Additionally or alternatively approval of the unauthorized change can be performed manually by an authorized third party e.g. authorized retailer and or a service provider. For example a user purchases a device and or brings the device to a retailer e.g. store . While the retailer has physical possession of the device the authorized retailer can override or disable one or more of the functionalities associated with detection of unauthorized changes. For example a functionality that can be disabled can be functionality associated with checking for a certain type of hardware change e.g. battery and or functionality associated with overriding an action associated with an unauthorized change e.g. never prompt the user for information .

A number of different techniques can be utilized by the authorized third party to override and or disable functionality associated with detection of unauthorized changes. For example a salesperson associated with the authorized retailer can enter a code manually into a user interface. Alternatively the sales person can have a hardware dongle e.g. USB dongle key that performs a security exchange with a certificate retained in the device in order to validate the manual alteration of an implementation policy e.g. disable override and so forth .

Additionally the communication device may include a user interface for purposes such as viewing and interacting with information related to user implemented device changes. This user interface includes an input device operable to generate or receive a user input into the communication device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the communication device . For example input device can include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module and so forth. Further for example output device can include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism an LCD one or more LEDs and the like. Output device can generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration or a Braille text producing surface an illumination e.g. light and so forth.

Further communication device can include a computer platform operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with input device and output device . Computer platform can include a memory which can comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory can include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components. In the illustrative version memory is depicted as RAM memory and a nonvolatile local storage component both connected to a data bus of the computer platform .

Further computer platform can also include a processor which can be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Certain of these capabilities of the communication device can be facilitated by code loaded from local storage retained in memory and executed by the processor . In some aspects such as when communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other logic such as an application specific integration circuit ASIC can execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident software components depicted as applications e.g. games that can be active in memory for other functions e.g. communication call control alarm clock text messaging and so forth . Device APIs can be a runtime environment executing on the respective communication device. One such API runtime environment is BREW API . The Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. exists over the operating system of a computing device such as a wireless cellular phone. BREW software can provide a set of interfaces to particular hardware features found on computing devices. The BREW APIs provide the ability for applications to call Device APIs and other functions without having to be written specifically for the type of communication device . Thus applications if composed in BREW or other software components on the communication device can operate identically or with slight modifications on a number of different types of hardware configurations within the operating environment provided by BREW API which abstracts certain hardware aspects. A BREW extension adds additional capability to the programming platform of the BREW API such as offering MP3 players Java Virtual Machines and so on.

As an example a User Interface module can be a brew extension leveraging a uiOne delivery system UDS as part of a network. The uiOne architecture also developed by Qualcomm Inc. as part of BREW provides a set of BREW extensions that enable rapid development of rich and customizable User Interfaces UIs active content over the air OTA up gradable helps to evolve download business beyond applications provides theming of part or entire handset UI and utilizes BREW UI Widgets. Thus BREW uiOne reduces the time to market for handsets carrier customization and consumer personalization. To do this the BREW uiOne provides a clear set of abstractions adding two new layers to the application development stack for BREW. The uiOne delivery system is used to update communication device UIs over the air. This delivery system can be deployed in a standalone fashion allowing operators to leverage the functionality of their own delivery system. Additional benefits can be realized by deploying uiOne architecture with uiOne delivery system especially when deployed in conjunction with other elements of the BREW solution e.g. monetization and billing of downloadable UI packages when the operator does not already have the appropriate infrastructure .

Additionally processor can include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on communications system. For example processing subsystems allows for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of communication device . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor can include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser and so on. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor can include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

The illustrative depiction of the processing subsystems wherein the communication device is a cellular telephone processing subsystems can include one or more of a receive Rx component for receiving communications sent to the processor of the wireless device a call processing CP component and or system determination SD component for handling the initiation authentication handoffs data exchanges messaging protocols internal processing and decision making etc. associated with processing a message and a transmit Tx component for sending communications from the processor of the wireless device such as to handset components wireless network wireless network components and other devices connected to the wireless network. In accordance with some aspects CP component can handle the majority of the call processing tasks while SD component can handle tasks relating to selecting an appropriate system from a multitude of systems with which to communicate as well as higher level decision making tasks referenced by CP component. In addition processing subsystems can further include one or more of a diagnostic Dx component for evaluating a subsystem a fax Fx component for handling facsimile communications a call manager CM component for characterizing and logging call types a messaging component M for text sending and receiving and a data services DS component for processing all data related communications such as establishing and maintaining data calls.

Computer platform can further include a GPS engine or other location sensing components to provide location information of the communication device .

A communications module that enables communications among the various components of communication device as well as being operable to communications related to receiving advertisements including targeted advertisements. Communications module can be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications. In one aspect the communication module includes a wireless broadband access technology portion a wireless multicast technology portion a cellular telephone radio technology portion and a wireless personal access network portion . Examples of two way wireless broadband access technology portion can include one or more of a wireless code division multiple access W CDMA component an Evolution Data Optimized EV DO component an IEEE 802.11 compliant often mischaracterized by the trademark WiFi component. An example of a wireless personal access network technology portion includes a Bluetooth component. Examples of a wireless multicast technology portion include a Forward Link Only FLO component and or a Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H component.

Also included in communication device can be a detection module that detects user initiated changes made to communication device . A comparator can compare the change to an approved change e.g. component identifier behavior characteristics and make a determination whether the change is authorized or unauthorized. A management module can recommend an action if the change is unauthorized and selectively apply the action based on one or more policies e.g. automatically apply the action request approval before applying the action and so forth . Also included is a report log interface that gathers and reports the changes and or the recommended actions to a user a service provider a device provider or other entities for further processing.

In order to determine whether a change is authorized or unauthorized and or to apply actions based on the change an artificial intelligence AI component and or a rule based logic component can infer information relating to the change and or action. The rules based logic component can be employed to automate certain functions described or suggested herein. In accordance with this alternate aspect an implementation scheme e.g. rule can be applied to define types of attributes that should be acted upon or ignored create rules that are aware of authorized changes performance delays in certain components of the computing platform in order to diagnose various changes and so forth. By way of example it will be appreciated that the rule based implementation can automatically define criteria for when to authorize a change and or which action to perform based on the result of the change e.g. critical .

The AI component can facilitate automating performance of one or more features described herein such as learning what is normal and abnormal behavior characteristics of the device learning specific interactions the user performs with the various applications which can impact the behavior characteristics. Thus employing various AI based schemes can assist in carrying out various aspects thereof.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a class label class x . A classifier can also output a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class x . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs that splits in an optimal way the triggering input events from the non triggering events. Other classification approaches including Na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models maximum entropy models etc. can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are pre trained e.g. through a generic training data from multiple users as well as methods of reinforcement learning e.g. by observing user behavior observing trends receiving extrinsic information . Thus the disclosed aspects can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria.

The memory can store information related to component identifiers and behavior characteristics and utilizing the component identifiers and behavior characteristics to determine whether a change is authorized or unauthorized. Additionally the memory can retain instructions relating to reporting log reports that include information relating to the changes and or recommended actions.

The processor can facilitate analysis of information related to detecting unauthorized changes in a communication network. Processor can be a processor dedicated to analyzing and or generating information received by communication device a processor that controls one or more components of device or combinations thereof. Memory can store protocols associated with authorized and unauthorized changes such that device can employ stored protocols and or algorithms to achieve improved device modifications techniques in a wireless network as described herein.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

At a hardware change made on a mobile device is detected. The change can be based on information that new hardware has been installed on the device e.g. the new hardware broadcasts its identification information . For example when a battery is installed in a device various information e.g. manufacturer model number voltage and so forth can be broadcast by the battery. In accordance with some aspects the change can be detected based on observed activities e.g. processor is over clocking or running too fast .

A determination is made at whether the hardware change is an authorized change or an unauthorized change. The determination can be made as a function of a component identification a behavior characteristic or combinations thereof. The component identification can be determined based on a dynamically updateable component identification listing. In accordance with some aspects the component identification listing can be updated over the air automatically and or upon request for an update. For example if a mobile device has a new battery release the component identification listing can be updated with the battery information and the list automatically transmitted to mobile device or accessible by mobile device .

In accordance with some aspects information associated with allowable characteristics of a certain piece of hardware can be retained. For example a battery voltage should not go above 4.0 V and if it is determined that a newly installed battery has a voltage of 4.5V that battery might not be supported by device e.g. unauthorized change . In another example for over clocking the processing speed is not allowed to go above a certain Mhz or under a certain MHz . In a similar manner RAM can be monitored with respect to access time and other variables.

The change either authorized or unauthorized can be optionally reported to a service provider at as indicated by the dashed line. The service provider can utilize the information to perform further actions relating to this device and or to device improvements.

At in an optional aspect as indicated by the dashed line an action is recommended based on the type of the unauthorized change wherein a type can be classified in accordance with a severity level a business model user safety theft prevention and so forth. For example a critical type of change is a change that can have drastic consequences e.g. device overheating injury to the user . A low impact type of change is a change that does not have associated drastic consequences e.g. a business model such as a higher resolution display installed on the device . If the change is a critical type a recommended action can be to power down the device or disable all applications except emergency calls and applications utilized by method . If the change is a low impact type of change various restrictions can be placed on the device e.g. limit the amount of display resolution . In accordance with some aspects the recommended action is implemented based on an implementation policy. The implementation policy can include requesting approval from a service provider prior to performing the recommended action and or automatically performing the action. For example if a higher resolution LCD is installed on the device an action can be to restrict the amount of resolution output. If a larger capacity ROM or RAM chip is installed the amount of memory that can be utilized can be restricted.

At a prompt is sent to the user based on the unauthorized change. The prompt can be for the user to solve a connectivity problem during a specified amount of time. For example when the unauthorized change is detected there might not be a network connection available e.g. the user is in a location where there is no or limited connectivity. In this situation the user can be given a limited amount of time in order to resolve the connection problem e.g. one day a week and so on . In accordance with another aspect the prompt can be for the user to provide information associated with the unauthorized change. The information can include proof that the change is authorized e.g. a license key a receipt indicating the change has been purchased and so forth .

The user response if any is received and at a determination is made as to an action that should be implemented. In accordance with some aspects the action is determined based on an implementation policy that associates an action with an unauthorized change. The implementation policy can be dynamically updated such as over the air and can take into account various criteria including updated hardware components e.g. new hardware identification newly discovered compatible hardware devices and so forth. The policy can include a listing table or other means of corresponding a particular unauthorized change with a specific action e.g. if illegal downloading of games is detected suspend use of a 3D module .

The action to be implemented can include limiting usage of the device to emergency usage. For example a mobile device such as a cellular telephone can have outgoing phone call limited to only 911 or other emergency calls e.g. roadside assistance . In such a manner the device is limited without compromising the safety of the user or others in need of emergency assistance.

Additionally or alternatively the action to be implemented can include suspending a subset of applications running on the device. For example applications related to diagnosing unauthorized hardware change can be allowed to continue to function while all other applications or a subset of the other applications are suspended until resolution of the unauthorized change e.g. change is deemed authorized change is reversed and so forth .

In accordance with another aspect the action to be implemented can include restricting at least one device action. For example a display having a higher resolution than the display purchased by the user is installed on the device and considered an unauthorized change. The resolution allowed to be output e.g. presented to the user can be restricted or limited to the amount of resolution for which the device is authorized e.g. the amount of resolution purchased .

In accordance with some aspects the action to be implemented includes suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change. For example if the unauthorized change is the detection of illegal downloading of games video content or the like usage of a 3D module can be restricted without affected other device functionality.

In accordance with some aspects the action to be implemented includes logging and reporting information associated with the unauthorized change to a service provider a user or both the service provider and the user. At in an optional aspect as indicated by the dashed line a request for verification of the action to be implemented is requested. This request can be transmitted to a service provider and can be requested based on policies associated with a particular unauthorized change. In this optional aspect a reply is received that includes approval of the action or rejection of the action. In accordance with some aspects if the proposed action is rejected a alternative action can be provided by the service provider.

At the action is selectively applied. If the user has provided the appropriate credentials related to the detected unauthorized change rending the change authorized e.g. user supplied a license key proof of purchase and so forth . The action is not applied. If the user solved a connectivity problem within the allotted amount of time and the change has been determined to be authorized the action is not applied. If the service provider rejected the action the action is not applied however an alternative action supplied by the service provider if any is applied . In accordance with some aspects the action is automatically applied without verification based on the implementation policy.

The unauthorized change and recommended action are evaluated at . The evaluation can be a function of an implementation policy. The implementation policy can cross reference an unauthorized change with an action that should be taken. The implementation policy is dynamic can be updated over the air. For example the implementation policy can be transmitted to the mobile device when there is an update to the policy when a request for the policy is received from the device or combinations thereof. In accordance with some aspects the implementation policy can be manually overridden e.g. when there is physical access to the device .

At approval or rejection of the recommended action is communicated to the mobile device. In accordance with some aspects if the recommended action is rejected an alternative action to be implemented is communicated to the mobile device. The recommended action or the alternative action can include limiting usage of the device to emergency usage suspending a subset of applications running on the device restricting at least one device action and or suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change.

With reference to illustrated is an example system that diagnoses an unauthorized change. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which may be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. Logical grouping may include an electrical component for identifying a change on a device. Also included is an electrical component for establishing that the change is unauthorized which can be a function of a component identification a behavior characteristic or combinations thereof. The component identification can be determined from a dynamically updatable component identification listing.

Logical grouping also includes an electrical component for implementing an action based on the unauthorized change. The action can be performed based on an implementation policy that associates an action with an unauthorized change. In accordance with some aspects the implementation policy is dynamically updateable over the air. Additionally or alternatively the implementation policy is manually overridden.

The performed action can include limiting usage of the device to emergency usage suspending a subset of applications running on the device restricting at least one device action suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the performed action comprises logging and reporting information associated with the unauthorized change to a service provider a user or both the service provider and the user. Further the performed action can include prompting a user to solve a connectivity problem during a specified amount of time and or prompting the user for information associated with the unauthorized change.

According to some aspects logical grouping includes an electrical component for transmitting a recommended action to a service provider and an electrical component for receiving approval or rejection of the recommended action.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. Logical grouping includes an electrical component for receiving notification that an unauthorized change has been made to a device. The notification can include a recommended action. The unauthorized change can be a hardware change a circuitry change or combinations thereof.

Logical grouping also includes an electrical component for reviewing the unauthorized change and the recommended action as a function of an implementation policy. The implementation policy can be communicated to the device when there are changes to the policy and or when a request for the policy is received from the device.

Also included is an electrical component for communicating approval or rejection of the recommended action to the device. Communication of the rejection can include an alternative action that should be implemented. The recommended action or the alternative action is at least one of limiting usage of the device to emergency usage suspending a subset of applications running on the device restricting at least one device action or suspending device applications associated with the unauthorized change.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and can exist within memory .

It is to be understood that the aspects described herein may be implemented by hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. When implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor through various means as is known in the art. Further at least one processor may include one or more modules operable to perform the functions described herein.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA CDMA2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further CDMA2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data. Additionally a computer program product may include a computer readable medium having one or more instructions or codes operable to cause a computer to perform the functions described herein.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within scope of the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

To the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

