---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring sensitive data on a computer network
abstract: A method and apparatus for monitoring sensitive data on a computer network is described. In one embodiment, a method for protecting sensitive data from being leaked to a computer network comprises monitoring data related to a user that is presented on one or more web pages through a common interface, which enables a search for sensitive data on the one or more web pages of the one or more web sites and determining a disclosure of the sensitive data on a web page of one or more web pages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407766&OS=08407766&RS=08407766
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08407766
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a computer network monitoring systems and more particularly to a method and apparatus for monitoring sensitive data on a computer network.

Because of the rapid development and progression of data networks people spend a significant amount of time browsing web sites on the Internet and connecting to various computer networks and database systems. In particular children spend a considerable amount of time viewing and or posting material on social networking web sites e.g. FACEBOOK MYSPACE WEBKINZ and the like blogs chat forums and other publicly accessible web sites. The material may be in the form of a profile e.g. MYSPACE profile comments e.g. public comments on other MYSPACE user profiles comments in a discussion thread bulletin board or blog chat room discussions incoming outgoing messages email and other postings e.g. blog or bulletin board posts .

While browsing children especially teenagers may accidently or knowingly post sensitive data e.g. credit card numbers phone numbers addresses and one or more pieces of personal information deemed sensitive by the parents on one or more publicly accessible websites. As a result the sensitive data is accessible by anyone who can connect to Internet. The malicious use of sensitive data disclosed on the internet is subject matter of significant concern in today s society. In particular the parents of the children desire more control over what material is being posted on publicly accessible websites to protect or limit sensitive data from being disclosed on the internet. Parents are concerned because children are likely to make poor decisions regarding whether to post material that includes sensitive data.

According to one prevalent method available to parents sensitive data is identified using the child s real name and or email address. But the child may use a secret email address or a fake real name on one or more web sites. Moreover the current solution is only able to search a selected number of web sites e.g. MYSPACE but not FACEBOOK . Furthermore such a solution only alerts the parents as to a disclosure of sensitive data and is incapable of removing the sensitive data automatically or upon request by the parents.

According to another prevalent method a software program installed on a particular computer is configured to prevent sensitive data from leaving the particular computer but the software program cannot prevent the leakage of sensitive data from other computers. A child may access the Internet from one or more computers outside the control of the parents e.g. a school computer a friend s computer a library computer a internet caf and the like .

Therefore there is a need in the art for a method and apparatus for monitoring sensitive data on a computer network to protect the sensitive data from disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally comprise a method and apparatus for monitoring sensitive data on a computer network. In one embodiment a method for protecting sensitive data from being leaked to a computer network comprising monitoring data related to a user that is presented on one or more web pages through a common interface wherein the common interface enables a search for sensitive data on one or more web pages of one or more web sites and determining a disclosure of the sensitive data on a web page of one or more web pages.

The client is a computing device e.g. laptop desktop mobile device Personal Desk Assistant PDA such as those generally known in the art. The client comprises a Central Processing Unit CPU various support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. Various support circuits facilitate operation of the CPU and may include clock circuits power supplies input output circuits and or the like. The memory includes a read only memory random access memory disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and the like. In one embodiment the client is a computer used by a child through which a responsible party e.g. a parent wants to protect sensitive data from disclosure. The memory includes various software packages such as a data leakage protection component .

The data leakage protection component processes sensitive data e.g. from the parents and login information associated with one or more web sites to produce configuration information which is stored in the configuration information database . In one embodiment the parents input Uniform Resource Locators URLs of the one or more web sites e.g. web sites that are routinely accessed by a child on the client as well as the login information e.g. login name password email address answers to challenge questions profile name and any other information needed for a login sequence required to access the material posted on the one or more web sites and to remove any the material that includes the sensitive data.

Optionally the memory includes an agent that is configured to collect the configuration information from various resources in the client . In one embodiment the agent enables the generation of configuration information without requiring any input from the parents. For example the parents may not know the certain portions of the login information e.g. the email address or profile name used for a MYSPACE profile because the child desires to use the particular web site without parental knowledge. Instead the agent determines such portions of the login information by examining a browser history used at a particular site. For example the browser history indicates the email address used to login into the MYSPACE profile.

The configuration information database stores the configuration information provided by the agent and or the data leakage component e.g. input from the parents . In one embodiment the client communicates the configuration information to a location within the configuration information database . The configuration information database provides the configuration information to the server to protect the sensitive data related to a particular user from disclosure on one or more web sites hosted by the web computer as explained further below.

The server comprises a Central Processing Unit CPU various support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. Various support circuits facilitate operation of the CPU and may include clock circuits power supplies input output circuits and or the like. The memory includes a read only memory random access memory disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and the like. The memory includes various software packages such as a data polling component and a website access engine . The memory further includes various data such as plug in information .

The web computer is a computing device e.g. a web server for hosting one or more web sites configured to host one or more web sites. The web computer comprises a web page a web page . . . a web page hereinafter generally referred to as the web pages . The web computer is configured to control access to the web pages by the client e.g. through login names and passwords . Once access is authorized the web pages are transmitted and presented on the client .

The network comprises a communication system that connects computers by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless links facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The network may employ various well known protocols to communicate information amongst the network resources. For example the network may be part of the Internet or intranet using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet WiFi WiMax General Packet Service GPRS and the like.

The data polling component cooperates with the web access engine to access and or monitor one or more web sites hosted by the web computer using the configuration information e.g. login information associated with a particular user of the one or more web sites stored in the configuration information database . In one embodiment the data polling component accesses the configuration information database to extract URLs of the one or more web sites the sensitive data associated with the particular user and or login information associated with the one or more web sites. Based on the configuration information the data polling component uses the web access engine to perform a search of the web pages within the web computer as explained further below.

The web access engine is configured to provide a common interface between the data polling component and the one or more web sites hosted on the web computer i.e. a plurality of web servers . The data polling component interacts with various implementations of the one or more web sites through the common interface. The common interface enables access to the web pages for the data polling component even though the one or more web sites may employ distinct layouts schemas web Application Programming Interfaces and or file systems. In one embodiment the data polling component uses the common interface generated by the web access engine to examine e.g. search parse analyze the web pages for a disclosure of the sensitive data indicated in the configuration information.

In one embodiment the common interface is effectuated through a supporting plug in architecture where plug ins. Each plug in comprises web site specific information that is required to search the web pages for any sensitive data by parsing the web pages and or accessing the web API. The web access engine implements the common interface using one or more plug ins that are specific to one or more web sites and stored in plug in information . As such the plug in information enables identification of any sensitive data on the web pages by the data polling component . Plug ins may be added to the plug in architecture in the future to support additional web sites.

According to one embodiment the data polling component submits the login information e.g. email address social networking profile name username password and the like associated with the particular user through the web access engine to acquire access to material posted on the web pages by the particular user according to one embodiment. The web computer verifies the login information associated with the particular user and authorizes access to the material posted on the web pages . Once access is granted the data polling component monitors e.g. examines on a periodic basis material presented on the web pages for the sensitive data related to the particular user. In one embodiment the web access engine generates an access request comprising the login information to be processed by a web Application Programming Interface API associated with the web computer .

For example the data polling component and the web access engine submit an email address and a password for a FACEBOOK profile to a FACEBOOK web server that implements the FACEBOOK Platform API. In response the FACEBOOK web server authorizes access to one or more portions of the web pages . Notably the FACEBOOK web server permits access to various portions of the web pages for FACEBOOK members and restricts access for non FACEBOOK members. In addition the FACEBOOK web server may restrict or prevent a first FACEBOOK member from viewing or accessing information within a FACEBOOK member profile of a second FACEBOOK member based on various factors e.g. the information is set as private the second FACEBOOK member is not a Friend of the first FACEBOOK member the second FACEBOOK member is under eighteen years old and the like . Accordingly the email address and password enable the data polling component and the web access engine to access search and or remove material e.g. information within profiles on the FACEBOOK web server that would otherwise be unavailable.

In one embodiment the data polling component removes the sensitive data posted on the one or more web sites using the login information e.g. profile name and password . For example if the data polling component identifies the sensitive data e.g. a phone number an address and or a social security number posted on a social networking profile e.g. MYSPACE profile associated with the particular user or as a comment posted by the particular user on another social networking profile e.g. a friend s MYSPACE profile then the data polling component uses the email address and password to log into a social networking account owned by the particular user and to remove the sensitive data. In another embodiment the data polling component is configured to notify the parents of the particular user if any sensitive data has been disclosed through the one or more web sites. As another example if the data polling component determines that the sensitive data is posted on a web blog then the data polling component sends a notification regarding the disclosure to the parents.

In operation the data polling component generates a search query in a generic query language that includes the sensitive data. The web access engine is configured to processes the search query defined in the generic query language to produce a second search query that is acceptable e.g. executable by a web site hosted by the web computer according to various embodiments of the present invention. The web access engine communicates the second search query to the web computer for processing. As such the web access engine functions as the common interface between the data polling component and the web site hosted by the web computer .

In one embodiment the web access engine translates or maps the search query to the second search query in accordance with a query language defined by the web computer for the web site e.g. Google Search Syntax and described in a portion of the plug in information e.g. a plug in associated with the web site . The second search query may comprise a search string that includes the sensitive data and or the login information. In one embodiment the second search query is submitted to the web Application Programming Interface API associated with the web site e.g. Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX Web API MYSPACE API FACEBOOK API FLICKR API Google SOAP Search API and the like . The web API comprises implementations of one or more functions that search the web pages associated with the web site for the sensitive data in accordance with the second search query. The data polling component examines search results for the second search query returned by the one or more functions to determine whether any sensitive data is presented or disclosed on the web pages . The search results may be in a search response format of the query language used at the web site. As such the web access engine converts the search results into a format that is recognizable and or searchable by the data polling component. As described above if the data polling component identifies any sensitive data within the search results the parents are notified and or the sensitive data is automatically removed.

According to yet another embodiment of the present invention the web access engine uses a web page processing technique e.g. Document Object Model DOM or tree based parser Virtual Token Descriptor for eXtensible Markup Language VTD XML Simple API parser for XML SAX and the like to parse content of the web pages in order to identify any sensitive data leaked through the web pages . The web access engine may also comprise a web or screen scraping technology that employs the web page processing technique to extract information from the parsed web pages and transform the information into a format recognizable and or searchable by the data polling component e.g. in a generic language . As described above if the data polling component determines a disclosure of any sensitive data from the transformed information the sensitive data is automatically removed from the web pages and or the parents are notified.

In one embodiment a plug in included with the plug in information indicates a format or layout of the web pages as viewed on a browser application at the client . In one embodiment a plug in comprising an underlying object structure e.g. Document Object Model for representing the web pages organized in various formats e.g. Markup Language e.g. HTML or XML JavaScript based content as well as content in a related format enables the web access engine to parse the web pages in order to identify any sensitive data. In one embodiment a plug in describes a logical or semantic structure e.g. XML schemas Document Type Definition and the like of the web pages which is used by the web access engine to parse the rendered content to identify a disclosure of any sensitive data associated with a particular user.

At step one or more web sites are accessed using login information e.g. a login name a challenge question answer a password a profile name an email address a real name and the like associated with a user of the one or more web sites. At step the one or more websites are monitored for sensitive data related to the user through a common interface. As described above the common interface enables a search for the sensitive data on one or more web pages e.g. the web pages of within the one or more web sites. In one embodiment the one or more web sites are polled on a periodic basis to determine whether the sensitive data has been disclosed. According to another embodiment of the present invention the step has been further described in by a sequence of steps for a method .

At step a determination is made as to whether a disclosure of the sensitive data on the one or more web pages has occurred. If disclosure of the sensitive data has not occurred option NO the method returns to step . If the disclosure of the sensitive data has occurred option YES the method proceeds to step . At step a notification is sent to the parents of the user as to the disclosure of a portion of the sensitive data through a web site. At step the portion of the sensitive data is automatically removed from the web site. At step the method ends.

At step a common interface is generated between the data polling component e.g. the data polling component of and one or more web sites. As explained above the web access engine functions as the common interface by mapping a search query written in a generic query language associated with the data polling component to a second search query written in a query language that is used at the web site. At step a determination is made as to whether a web API is available for the web site. If the web API is available for the web site option YES the method proceeds to step .

At step the one or more web pages e.g. the web pages of are searched for a disclosure of the sensitive data through function calls implemented in the web API. The second search query is submitted to the web API and a response comprising search results is subsequently returned. As mentioned above plug ins comprise web site specific information that is necessary to access the web API to search one or more web pages. At step the search results are analyzed to identify the sensitive data on one or more web pages.

At step however if the web API is not available for the web site option NO the method proceeds to step . At step one or more web pages associated with the web site are parsed. In one embodiment a web or screen scraping program parses the one or web pages using based on an underlying object structure DOM . Then the web or screen scraping program extracts information from the one or more parsed web pages and transforms the extracted information into a second format e.g. a format examinable by the data polling component of . At step the results of the transformation are analyzed to identify the sensitive data. At step the method ends.

At step sensitive data is processed. As explained above a data polling component e.g. the data leakage protection component of processes the sensitive data e.g. from the parents . At step a determination is made as to whether an agent e.g. the agent of is operable on a client computer e.g. the client of .

If the agent is installed on the client computer option YES the method proceeds to step . At step web activity at the client computer is monitored. In one embodiment the agent monitors interactions between a user and one or more web sites. At step login information e.g. profile name password and the like associated with the user is identified from various resources within the client computer. In one embodiment the agent examines a web history to determine which web sites e.g. social networking sites and the like are visited by the user. The agent collects information regarding one or more profiles associated with the one or web sites.

At step however if the agent is not installed option NO the method proceeds to step . At step login information is received by a data protection leakage component e.g. the data leakage protection component . In one embodiment the parents of the user input the login information into the data leakage protection component to configure the data polling component. Then the method proceeds to step .

At step configuration information is generated. In one embodiment the configuration information comprises URLs for the one or more web sites the sensitive data and or the login information associated with the one or more web sites. At step the configuration information is communicated. In one embodiment the configuration information is stored in a configuration information database e.g. the configuration information database of . The method ends at step .

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

