---

title: Avatar items and animations
abstract: Mechanisms for accessorizing avatars with animated items. Avatars may be accessorized by items that have animations that are item specific, or they may be accessorized by items that apply to the entire body of the avatars. In addition, such item accessories may apply to avatars across different game titles and they may be added during the execution of a game, whether using a user interface or the game itself (e.g. receiving accessories for achieving certain milestones in a game). Such accessories may also be obtained from remote sources as packages, and then applied locally to avatars.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08384719&OS=08384719&RS=08384719
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08384719
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080801
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 080 626 filed on Jul. 14 2008.

The present application may be related in subject matter to the following applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 178 535 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 188 953.

A portion of the disclosure of this document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2008 Microsoft Corp.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to the field of computing and more particularly to fields such as gaming although this is merely an exemplary and non limiting field.

Avatars can be graphical images that represent real persons in virtual or game space. They can be embodiments or personifications of the persons themselves or of principles attitudes or views of life held by such persons. Hitherto avatars have been static or at most they have had limited animation capabilities. However what is needed is systems methods and or computer readable media that allow for creative animation based on input from users and or games.

Various mechanisms are provided herein for accessorizing avatars with animated items. Avatars may be accessorized by items that have animations that are item specific or they may be accessorized by items that apply to the entire body of the avatars. In addition such item accessories may apply to avatars across different game titles and they may be added during the execution of a game whether using a user interface or the game itself e.g. receiving accessories for achieving certain milestones in a game . Such accessories may also be obtained from remote sources as packages and then applied locally to avatars.

It should be noted that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the case of online game playing other users such as user B and user C could interact with the first user if such online game playing was mediated by a central server. In the prior art shown in such avatars that were associated with the first user could be seen by the other users however these avatars would be static in that they would not change over time or at least they would not be animated as this term is understood by those of skill in the art.

In stark contrast to illustrates that avatars can be animated in a plurality of ways. Specifically avatars may be adorned or accessorized by items where an item is understood to be any piece of graphic and or audio component that may be applied to an existing avatar. By way of example and not limitation items may include hats shoes gloves i.e. any piece of clothing in which case such items may contain animations that are item specific for example a hat that keeps changing colors or moves about an avatar s head. Moreover items may also apply to the entire avatar body for example the notion of dancing smiling or jumping may be applied to an avatar as a whole in order to add to the avatar s liveliness and presentability or it may be added for other purposes .

In any event shows that in one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter avatar X may have applied to it animation that is specific to the avatar e.g. the hat example discussed above . On the other hand avatar Y may have animation that is applied to the entire body of the avatar e.g. the dance example discussed above . In either case or in other cases the avatars may be user determined or they may be game determined . This means that users may accessorize the avatars via some interface or such avatars may be accessorized by gaming titles . In this latter scenario if the user is playing a game and unlocks an achievement in the game the reward for such achievement may be animation items that then may be applied to the user s avatars whether to the avatars in a specific game or to the avatars in general for several or all games.

For example if a user wins a hat animation such a hat animation may be applied to the avatar across several games whether racing games strategic games fantasy games and so on. The animation may be the same for an avatar across several games or it may change depending on the context of the game. Such details are implementation specific and all aspects of such animation items are contemplated herein.

In another aspect of the present disclosure illustrates an exemplary system that allows for avatar accessorizing using animated items. An avatar engine may be configured to apply accessory items to avatars . The accessory items may contained in a animation package and be provided together with three dimensional meshes bitmapped textures configuration information e.g. where the items should be placed in relation to the avatar . All this code and data could be part of an overall avatar accessory package . In short the avatar engine may access content in the avatar accessory package and then apply this content to the actual avatar .

There may be various triggering mechanisms for applying such item content to avatars. For example one such mechanism can include a user interface that allows users to select which items to apply to which avatars. Alternatively or in addition to game titles themselves can be a trigger for applying item content to avatars depending on the implementation and user interaction with a gaming console hosting such an avatar engine . Yet in other aspects of the present disclosure the avatar engine may reside on hosting server and any processing may be performed upstream from users.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter illustrates a system for animating avatars across a plurality of games. Although a system is shown in this subject matter can be practiced as a method and or computer readable media which is true of this figure with respect to any of the other figures and vice versa . In the above discussed avatar engine may have various modules. The shown modules are merely exemplary and non limiting as holds true for any of the present disclosure that is exemplary and non limiting .

Thus a system may be used for animating gaming console avatars in a plurality of different ways where the system may be loaded in local computer memory and where it may be executed by a physical processor. In such a system a processing module may be configured to process an accessory package containing a plurality of animation items. Another module the identification module may be configured to identify avatars and animation items from the plurality of animation items. And still another module the application module may be configured to apply the animation items to the avatars.

This system may accommodate various other aspects such as having animation items applied to the avatars at least in a first game title and a second game title . Moreover the animation items may be configured to be applied to the avatars while the first game title is playing . In other aspects animation items may be further configured to be applied to the avatars while the second game title is playing . The first game title and the second game title may be distinct from each other in that they may be loaded separately at time t and at time t .

It will be readily appreciated that other instructions may be used in conjunction with the aspects discussed above such as instructions configured to carry at least one item between or across different game titles instructions configured to present to a user the option of accessorizing any avatars during the execution of games instructions configured to trigger and manage animation in different ways such continuous event user and idle animation instructions configured to apply animation in specific ways such as item based and avatar based or using different mechanisms such as user interface and game titles . It should be noted that other instructions that embody the various aspect discussed above may be used.

The above discussed computing devices and accessories can be embodied as gaming consoles music players personal computers controllers remote control devices and other such devices having different similar or the same platforms. Referring to a block diagram shows an exemplary multimedia console that can be used in conjunction with the various accessories with lighting activation by proximity and motion capabilities.

This console which includes a game oriented console or a PC can comprise for example digital audio processing functionality. Specifically in a multimedia console is shown with a central processing unit CPU having a level 1 L1 cache a level 2 L2 cache and a flash ROM Read only Memory . The level 1 cache and level 2 cache can temporarily store data and hence reduce the number of memory access cycles thereby improving processing speed and throughput. The flash ROM can store executable code that is loaded during an initial phase of a boot process when the multimedia console is powered. Alternatively the executable code that is loaded during the initial boot phase can be stored in a flash memory device not shown . Further ROM can be located separately from the CPU . These memory devices can cache parts or the entirety of the above mentioned applications programs applets managed code and so on. Moreover these memory devices can store sensitive and non sensitive information on a memory unit by memory unit basis as was discussed above. Any of such information can be used at least in part to aid in animating avatars as was discussed above.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder can form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data can be carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline can output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller can be connected to the GPU and CPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory . Thus various types of information whether sensitive or not or even parts of various types of information can be stored in the various types of memories discussed above depending on the need.

The multimedia console can include an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that can be preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and can serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory unit e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . Such peripheral controllers can have various types of lighting displays that is triggered by proximity and motion. Moreover the network interface and or wireless adapter can provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and can be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory can be provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive can be provided and can comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive can be internal or external to the multimedia console . Application data can be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the multimedia console . The media drive can be connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 . Additional to such application data other information can be stored on the console that will aid in the communication between peripheral accessory device controllers and the console itself.

The system management controller can provide a variety of service functions to assure the availability of the multimedia console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec can form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity 3D surround and stereo audio processing according to aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter above. Audio data can be carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline can output data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly can support the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the multimedia console . A system power supply module can provide power to the components of the multimedia console . A fan can cool the circuitry within the multimedia console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the multimedia console can be interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

When the multimedia console is powered on or rebooted application data can be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . Such application data can include some of the online derived data including the avatar packages discussed above. The application can also present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the multimedia console . Users can accessorize avatars using such a user interface. In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive can be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the multimedia console . And such media including game titles can be the basis for accessorizing avatars.

The multimedia console can be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the multimedia console can allow one or more users to interact with the system watch movies listen to music and the like. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the multimedia console can further be operated as a participant in a larger network community of computing devices. As such a participant it can interact with computing devices whether PCs or servers and receive information that can be eventually stored.

Next illustrates an exemplary networking environment for subject matter discussed with reference to . The above discussed console can correspond to any one of the aforementioned computing devices or it can be distributed over such devices. It can interact with various other objects and storage devices via a communications network bus where such objects and devices can correspond to other computing devices whether hardware firmware or software . The controllers can communicate with the console in a wired manner or wirelessly over close distances or over remote distances using the shown communications network . Such communication can be aided by various computing devices connected to the communications network .

Finally it should also be noted that the various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible storage media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the subject matter.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing application programming interface API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined.

Finally while the present disclosure has been described in connection with a plurality of exemplary aspects as illustrated in the various figures and discussed above it is understood that other similar aspects can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating therefrom. For example in various aspects of the disclosure methods systems and computer readable media were described configured for providing animation accessorization of avatars. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

