---

title: Integrated building device monitoring network
abstract: An electrical device for installation within a building is described. Accordingly, the device may comprise a mounting arrangement configured to mount the device within the building. A location module is provided to monitor a location of the device within the building and a power monitor is provided to monitor power consumption of an electrical appliance connectable to the device. The device further includes a communication module configured to interface the electrical device to a communications network and to communicate the location and the power consumption via the communications network. In an example embodiment, the communications network is connectable to a system controller that is operable to communicate with a plurality of the electrical devices to control operation of the electrical devices. The device and the system controller may form part of a building management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07965174&OS=07965174&RS=07965174
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07965174
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080228
---
This application relates to networked electrical devices for example networked electrical devices mountable within a building.

Buildings include power reticulation systems that provide power to many electrical appliances or electrical loads that consume electrical power. Such appliances may be fixed or movable devices. Examples of fixed appliances include lights heating apparatus electrical power outlets or the like that are typically permanently mounted within the building. Examples of movable appliances include LCD projectors computers or the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that other embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

An electrical device system and method to provide location information of electrical devices in a building are described. The electrical device may comprise a mounting arrangement a device communication module a location module and a network communication module. The mounting arrangement may be configured to mount the device operatively within a building and the device communication may be configured to communicate with at least one other electrical device located in use within the building. The location module may be configured to provide a location of the at least one other device within the building and the network communication module may interface the electrical device to a communications network thereby to communicate the location via the communications network.

The system is shown by way of example to include electrical devices configured to communicate over hardwired connections and electrical devices configured to communicate over wireless connections . Each device is shown to be coupled to an associated electrical appliance . .. Examples of the electrical appliances . . include lights power outlets heating apparatus computers DVD players projectors and any other electrical appliance that may be fixedly or movable located within the building.

An example electrical device which may be similar to one or more of the electrical devices is shown by way of example in . The electrical device includes a location module to identify a location of the electrical device or one or more other electrical devices within the building e.g. using a mounting arrangement . A network communication module is provided to communicate the location via a communications network for example to a monitoring console. In an example embodiment a power monitor is provided to monitor power consumed by an associated electrical appliance. A device communication module is provided to communicate with one or more other electrical devices to determine the location of other electrical devices. The device communication module may be a low power short range transceiver. In use a plurality of electrical devices with their associated device communication modules may be provided and interconnected to form a mesh or a cluster network.

In an example embodiment the electrical devices form part of a building management system. Thus the electrical devices may be provided e.g. fixedly installed during building construction at various locations e.g. various rooms within the building and inter alia identify or monitor location of other electrical devices and power consumption at these various locations.

Each electrical device may have associated device information. The device information may for example include a physical location of the electrical device with respect to the building asset identification data e.g. a serialized numbering system used for tracking assets a device type e.g. if the device is a power outlet light ballast or the like an electrical appliance type associated with the electrical device e.g. a television projector computer or the like and or any other electrical device related information. Examples of electrical devices include power outlets e.g. outlet sockets light ballasts heating ventilation air conditioning HVAC devices such as variable air volume VAV electrical devices and fan coil units FCU thermostats security system components and any other electrical appliances that may be installed in the building. It will thus be appreciated that a plurality of electrical devices may be provided in a plurality of rooms in the building or throughout a plurality of associated buildings .

The hardwired electrical devices may be deployed in locations where wired communications are more cost effective for example where a wired network such as an Ethernet is already provided or will be provided e.g. during construction . In an example embodiment a Power over Ethernet network may be utilized to effect communication and provide power to one or more electrical devices. In addition or instead the hardwired electrical devices may be configured to communicate via power lines of a power reticulation network to which the electrical devices are connected.

In an example embodiment the communications network is an Internet Protocol IP network that includes network devices such as wired routers wireless routers switches and other network devices that communicate and route data between the electrical devices through and a system controller.

In some example embodiments the communications network may be shared by other electronic devices. For example the communications network may be part of one or more wireless computer networks a cellular telephone network or any other network capable of communicating data between networked devices. In example embodiments the communications network includes but is not limited to one or more ZigBee Alliance networks 802.11x networks e.g. 802.11b 802.11c or the like 802.15.4 networks 802.51 networks 802.16 networks 802.20 networks and or Bluetooth networks.

As shown at block the method includes communicating between an electrical device e.g. the electrical devices and at least one other electrical e.g. the electrical devices device located within a building. In an example embodiment the electrical device e.g. the electrical devices is fixedly mounted within the building e.g. installed during constructions . Thereafter a location of the at least one other electrical device e.g. the electrical devices within a building is identified based on the communication see block . Optionally power consumption of an electrical appliance associated with the electrical device may be monitored see block . The location and power consumption from the electrical device e.g. the electrical devices is then communicated to a system controller via a communications network see block .

In an example embodiment the system controller may then communicate control instructions to one or more other electrical devices e.g. the electrical devices to control operation of an electrical appliance connected to an associated electrical device. In an example embodiment the location and the power consumption is communicated via a power reticulation network to which the electrical device e.g. the electrical devices is connected. Referring to reference numeral shows a schematic block diagram of a system in accordance with an example embodiment in which a plurality electrical devices is managed by a system controller including a console . The electrical devices and system controller are operatively coupled via a communications network . Each of the electrical devices are shown to be connectable to an associated electrical appliance. For example the electrical device may be connected to a light ballast to monitor power consumption of circuitry associated with a light e.g. a light ballast the electrical device may be connected to an HVAC the electrical device may be configured to monitor one or more other devices e.g. projectors in conference rooms in the building the electrical device may configured to monitor electrical assets e.g. laptop computers in the building and the electrical device may be configured to monitor desktop computers. It should be noted that any other electrical loads or appliances may be monitored. In an example embodiment the electrical device may include a mounting arrangement configured to mount the device operatively within a building. For example when the electrical device is a power outlet see electrical device a mounting plate may be provided to mount the power outlet to the building. Various components of the electrical device see for example may then be integrated within the power outlet.

In an example embodiment the system controller includes a network communication module to interface the system controller to the communications network . A control module is provided and is configured to receive a location and power consumption data from one or more of the electrical devices . Based thereon control instructions may be communicated to the electrical devices to control operation of electrical appliances connectable to the electrical devices . The user console may allow a user such as a building administrator to manage a building including the system . The console may be provided with a display to display the power consumption and the location of the electrical devices . Further the console may include a user input module e.g. including a keyboard to receive user input from a user. A processing module may be provided to process the user input and to generate control signals to communicate to one or more of the electrical devices .

In an example embodiment the electrical devices may include memory to store information about the device and or an associated electrical appliance. For example a physical location of the device may be stored in the memory using physical coordinate data that identifies where the device is located within the building. Examples of physical coordinate data include x y and z coordinates provided with reference to the building building room number pairs polar coordinates with reference to the building or any other identification arrangement that identifies an electrical device within the building. As the physical location of the electrical device is known this may be used to determine the relative location of another electrical device in a given space such as a room in a building.

In an example embodiment each device is integral within a building fixture. Such integration may for example include locating each device in a housing of an electrical appliance. For example when the electrical appliance includes a mounting frame e.g. a frame of a power outlet in a building the device may be fixed to the frame such as by nut and bolt fasteners adhesive welding or the like. Various electrical components of the electrical may be provided on a common circuit board with the circuit board coupled to the mounting frame.

The electrical device is shown to form part of an electrical appliance and may thus be integral with a mounting arrangement for mounting the electrical appliance within a building. For example the mounting arrangement may be part of a lamp or lighting arrangement to permanently mount e.g. screw or bolt the electrical appliance within the building. The electrical device may be connected to a lamp ballast of the lamp.

The electrical device is shown to include a location module configured to identify a location of the electrical device within the building and a power monitor configured to monitor power consumption of the electrical appliance connected to the electrical device . A communication module is provided and is configured to interface the electrical device to a communications network and thereby communicate the location and the power consumption via the communications network to for example a building management system. The communications module may also communicate wirelessly with other electrical devices located within a room in a building.

A device controller is provided to control operation of inter alia the location module the communications module and the power monitor . In an example embodiment transmit only functionality as opposed to bidirectional transceiver functionality may be provided. In certain example embodiments the electrical device may monitor more than one electrical device such a group of lights in a room in a building an electrical appliance e.g. portable computers or projectors located within a room in a building or the like.

Turning to the electrical device this device is shown by way of example to be configured as a gateway node. The electrical device includes a communications module to communicate wirelessly with the communications network and a network interface module to interface the wireless communications network to a wired communications network e.g. an Ethernet . The electrical device may thus form a gateway node that interfaces a plurality of electrical devices to the wired communications network see line . In the example embodiment shown in the electrical device is shown to interface the electrical device and the electrical device to the wired network.

The example electrical device is shown to also include a wireless communications module and is configured as a mobile device or node . In an example embodiment this mobile device may be self powered and may function as a test device or location device that allows a user to test and or locate electrical devices deployed in a building. Accordingly the electrical device may include a display screen keyboard processor and other electrical circuitry see block to locate and communicate with other electrical device in the building. For example this test or location device can be used to direct a building operator to a particular node or device in a building using navigational instructions. The mobile device may use location algorithms to determine a physical location of the electrical devices e.g. electrical devices and electrical devices . In an example embodiment the mobile device identifies the location of one or more other electrical devices relative to the mobile device . In an example embodiment a location algorithm may process a received signal strength indication RSSI an angle arrival of a received signal time difference of arrival in the received signal or the like to obtain at least an indication of the location of an associate electrical device. A location may also be determined by receiving signals from other electrical devices using triangulation.

In an example embodiment the communications network is in communication with municipal energy grid monitors e.g. a plurality of electrical meters . Each grid monitor may monitor energy provision and communicate data via the communications network to provide to energy consumption information to a console e.g. see the console shown in . A building manager may for example use this information to identify a power source having a preferred stability level to be used by equipment sensitive to power fluctuations. Accordingly one or more power outlets connected to the stable energy source may be enabled by the building manager for use by the sensitive equipment. In an example embodiment the server node may include an application programming interface API for use by other devices to for example control and monitor electrical devices connected to the communications network . For example the server node may correspond to the system controller of the system see and accordingly run the API.

The system is shown to include a management module a user console and a power to data gateway node that are connected to the IP backbone . The user console may provide a wireless gateway to various networked devices in the building as described in more detail below. The power to data gateway node may be configured to manage multiplexed data communications over the power reticulation network . Accordingly the power to data gateway node may receive information about an electrical device directly connected to the power reticulation network or indirectly connected to the power reticulation via a wireless network . In some example embodiments the power to data gateway node communicates information over a wired network connection e.g. a USB connection to another device such as a personal computer personal computer .

The system is also shown to include power outlets installed within the building and thus connected to the power reticulation network . Each power outlet may include the electrical device see . The system is also shown to include a lighting arrangement including an electrical device which may be substantially similar to the electrical device connected to a light ballast .. As described by way of example above with reference to power consumption and location data may be communicated from the power outlets and the lighting arrangement to the management module and or the user console . Accordingly in an example embodiment power provided to appliances plugged into the power outlets and to the lighting arrangement may be controlled by the management module e.g. the appliances may be turned on and off . In an example embodiment one or more of the power outlets may form part of a rack for computers in a data center.

The system is also shown by way of example to include further lighting arrangements and . The lighting arrangements include electrical devices which may be substantially similar to the electrical device and their associated ballasts . .. In some example embodiments one or more of the power outlets the lighting arrangements the power to data gateway the user console and the management module store at least some device data. For example the device data may include information on device behavior e.g. power consumption a state of operation of the device e.g. whether a light is on or off location information about the device asset tracking information or other any other information.

The user console may include application software to allow an administrator to perform an analysis of the status of the power outlets and lighting arrangements connected to the communications network . For example application software may monitor and process energy requirements of the power outlets and lighting arrangements connected to the network . For example using outputs from the application software the administrator may identify one or more devices that may be deactivated to save energy. The application software may also identify where an electrical device to be deactivated is located.

In an example embodiment the system includes an API to facilitate access to the communications network by one or more remote computers. The API may communicate with other enterprise systems to facilitate collection of information from these devices and control operation of the devices. Example components of the API include but are not limited to a policy engine interface an energy management system interface a fire system interface a security system interface or the like. Thus in an example embodiment a stand alone fire system can access any node or device using the API . The fire system may also include one or more of the electronic devices .

The system is also shown to include a mobile device which may be substantially similar to the mobile device that is configured to communicate wirelessly with the communications network . In an example embodiment the mobile device is configured to communicate with the power outlets and the lighting arrangements and the user console via the communications network . The mobile device may include circuitry to identify a physical location of the each of the power outlets the lighting arrangements and the user console . In an example embodiment the mobile device is configured to control multiple devices including the power outlets the lighting arrangements the user console and the power to data gateway . The mobile device may also be configured to identify its physical location within the building and provide location information to a user. In an example embodiment the mobile device includes navigational software to assist a user in navigating through a building. In one example embodiment the mobile device includes memory to store a building map to facilitate navigation in the building. The mobile device may thus include a display for displaying information.

In an example embodiment the mobile device includes a processor and associated circuitry and may be programmed to keep track of the operational status of electrical devices that it controls. Thus in an example embodiment the status e.g. operational status such as power consumption on off status etc. of the power outlets and the lighting arrangements may be stored in the mobile device . For example when the mobile device controls a plurality of lamp ballasts operational information of the lamp ballast may be stored in the mobile device . If the dimming of lights in a room is required by a building manager the building manager can use the mobile device and enter an instruction to dim the lights. This instruction may then be communicated via the wireless communications network to a lamp ballast of an associated lighting arrangement e.g. the lighting arrangements . In some example embodiments the management module may be updated to reflect changes to the lighting arrangements affected by the mobile device . In an example embodiment device data is provided in a table that is accessible to other nodes or devices for review and or updating.

In an example embodiment the system may be used to track or monitor assets e.g. any asset item in a building such as projectors video monitors or other high value goods located within the building. In this example embodiment a user may traverse through a building with the mobile device . When the mobile device is in proximity to an asset configured to communicate with the mobile device the mobile device may collect information from the asset and record associated asset information. In this manner an inventory of assets located within a building may be obtained. The mobile device may exchange asset information with other devices on the communications network for example exchange asset information with the management module . In an example embodiment the assets may include an electronic device to communicate with the communications network .

The power outlet further includes a power monitor to monitor power usage by one or more appliance devices connected to the power outlet via the electrical sockets . A location module is provided to provide the location of the power outlet with a building. The power monitor and the location module may substantially resemble the power monitor and the location module of electronic device shown in . Current sensors and may monitor current drawn by electrical appliances plugged into the electrical sockets .

Further a communications module with an associated antenna is provided to communicate device data to other devices on the communications network. In an example embodiment device data may be communicated via power lines and to one or more other electronic devices. The antenna may be a dipole antenna e.g. a 5 centimeter dipole antenna .

In an example embodiment the power outlet and the location module may include a physical location circuit to determine a physical location of the power outlet with respect to a building within which it is mounted. For example a Global Positioning System GPS chip may be included in the location module. In some embodiments location monitor is configured to measure the signal strength of another device to estimate its location within the building e.g. estimate how far that device is from another electronic device with a known location . The signal strength information may thus be used to perform a calculation of the physical location of the electronic device. In another example embodiment the location monitor may be programmed with its physical location data in the building. For example a second electronic device that is not programmed with its physical location may then derive its location from another electronic device having programmed location data.

In an example embodiment the power outlet may be programmed with its location data using the mobile device . For example the mobile device may include circuitry e.g. a GPS circuit to identify its position with a building and when in proximity to the power outlet may communicate this location data to the power outlet . In a similar manner a location of a lighting arrangement e.g. the lighting arrangements may be programmed .

The power outlet is further shown to include a power control module to control power provided by the electrical sockets . In an example embodiment the power control module includes a relay to switch power on and off. Accordingly power provided by the power outlet may be remotely switched on and off via the communications network. A device controller is provided to control operation of the various modules of the power outlet .

Further in some example embodiments a wireless router module is provided to route communications. A power line communication module may be provided to communicate via the power lines and and in these circumstances the wireless router module may route communications received wirelessly to an IP backbone e.g. the IP backbone via a power reticulation network.

Circuitry to implement the example modules in the power outlet may be provided on a printed circuit board PCB that is attached to the mounting arrangement . A transformer may provide power to the example modules of the power outlet .

In an example embodiment the power monitor communicates power usage data obtained from the current sensors to the device controller . This data may be communicated to an appliance plugged into the power outlet via a power cord of the appliance.

Various different housing may be provided dependent upon the specific deployment of the power outlet within the building. Likewise the various components may be arranged in different positions to fit within standard power outlet housings. For example components of certain example embodiments are arranged and sized for compatibility with the National Electrical Manufacturers Association 5 15 outlet standard.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

