---

title: Low temperature impurity doping of silicon carbide
abstract: The method described herein enables the introduction of external impurities into Silicon Carbide (SiC) to be conducted at a temperature between 1150-1400° C. Advantages include: a) low temperature diffusion procedure with greater control of the doping process, b) prevent roughness of SiC surface, c) less surface defects and d) better device performance and higher yield. The method described herein involves depositing a ceramic layer that contains the desired impurity and a certain element such as oxygen (in the form of oxide), or other elements/compounds that draw out the silicon and carbon atoms from the surface region of the SiC leaving behind carbon and silicon vacancies which then allow the external impurity to diffuse into the SiC more easily. In another embodiment, the deposited layer also has carbon atoms that discourage carbon from escaping from the SiC, thus generating a surface region of excess carbon in addition to the silicon vacancies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07999268&OS=07999268&RS=07999268
owner: Auburn University
number: 07999268
owner_city: Auburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080725
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 962 266 filed Jul. 27 2007 and entitled LOW TEMPERATURE IMPURITY DOPING OF SILICON CARBIDE which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract Grant No. CRDF UZE2 2682 TA 05 awarded by the U.S. Civilian Research Development Foundation CRDF .

The present invention relates to the field of semiconductors. More specifically the present invention relates to the field of impurity doping at a low temperature.

Doping is a necessary step in semiconductor material and device processing. Doping is done by controlled introduction of certain impurity known as dopant into a semiconductor to modify its electrical properties such as electrical conductivity charge carrier concentration lifetime and type of conductivity. Doping is required for making semiconductor junctions such as found in diodes transistors and others as well as for making non rectifying or ohmic electrical contact of low contact resistance to semiconductor material. Ohmic contact with low contact resistance is more easily fabricated on semiconductor material that has a very high charge carrier concentration.

The conventional methods of introducing dopants in silicon carbide is by ion implantation followed by activation annealing at temperatures between 1400 2200 C. in order to convert the implanted dopants into electrically active species. The higher the activation temperature the greater the number of impurity atoms that become electrically active. Due to the high activation temperature the surface of silicon carbide tends to decompose causing surface roughness and generating surface defects. These surface roughness and defects can have a detrimental effect on device performance. For instance they can degrade channel mobility in silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors to negatively impact device performance. Although activation annealing at a lower temperature is preferred it does not provide a high enough activation percentage and is therefore inefficient. A low temperature activation annealing is also needed in the fabrication of devices based on the 3C polytype of silicon carbide grown on silicon substrate.

Another conventional method is by thermal diffusion either from gas phase or by proximity annealing. This is done by placing the impurity source in close proximity to the silicon carbide such as flowing an impurity containing gas over the sample placing a solid source next to the silicon carbide sample and flowing inert gas through the chamber so that the impurity is able to be carried by the gas over the silicon carbide sample evaporating a thin film of the metal directly on the silicon carbide sample or evaporating a thin film of the metal directly on the silicon carbide and annealing at temperatures in excess of 1400 C. and even up to 1900 C. The temperature has to be sufficiently high in order to get enough dopant into the sample. A lower annealing temperature such as what is needed for 3C polytype of silicon carbide grown on silicon substrate does not provide sufficient doping.

Another commonly used method is by in situ doping in which dopants are introduced during crystal growth. In thin film growth of silicon carbide by chemical vapor deposition in situ doping is usually done by adding impurities such as nitrogen by using nitrogen gas or ammonia aluminum by using a metalorganic source such trimethylaluminum boron by using diborane gas phosphorous by using phosphine gas etc. as part of the process gas into the growth chamber. This technique is preferred when a uniform large area coverage is required but is not suitable when only selected areas on the semiconductor wafer require doping.

A commonly used doping technique in silicon device fabrication is to use commercial spin on dopant glass compound containing the desired dopant. Most of these spin on dopant compounds contain both impurity dopant and silicon dioxide in an organic medium or solvent. Some spin on dopants are also available without silicon dioxide in their formulations. In a typical procedure in silicon wafer processing a film of spin on dopant is deposited onto a silicon wafer and spun to obtain a thin uniform layer. The silicon wafer is baked at 100 200 C. to remove the solvent and the wafer loaded into a diffusion chamber. On heating the wafer to a temperature slightly over the melting point of the spin on dopant in an atmosphere containing either nitrogen gas or a gas mixture of 90 nitrogen and 10 oxygen a smooth glassy film is formed on the surface of the wafer. Dopant from the glass is deposited on the surface of the silicon. The formation of silicate glass is to provide an inert barrier against outdiffusion of silicon. Following this step the wafer is then cooled and removed from the diffusion chamber and the silicate glass film is removed by wet chemical etching using dilute hydrofluoric acid solution or buffered oxide etch BOE solution. The wafer is then loaded back into the diffusion chamber and heated to about 1000 1200 C. in an atmosphere containing about 10 25 oxygen in nitrogen gas to allow diffusion or drive in of the dopant into the silicon. The duration of the drive in step depends on the desired doping depth in the material. An alternative technique of removing the silicate glass film without removing the wafer from the chamber is by heating in steam at about 1050 1250 C. for about 5 20 minutes.

Such spin on dopants are not usually used for doping silicon carbide material because the method is not effective when employing the typical processing conditions as used in silicon device processing. For instance nitrogen is a dopant in silicon carbide and therefore nitrogen gas is not formally used in silicon carbide annealing. However these spin on dopants such as those containing phosphorus are used in some silicon carbide device fabrication processes to dope other material such as polysilicon that is used for making the gate contact on silicon carbide metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor eg. Jianwei Wan et al. N Channel 3C SiC MOSFETs on Silicon Substrate IEEE Electron Device Letters Vol. 23 No. 8 August 2002 pp. 482 484.

Point defects such as vacancies and interstitials are known to play a key role in the diffusion of impurities in semiconductors. Thus the efficiency of doping in semiconductors can be altered by the presence of these point defects. The interaction between point defects and extrinsic impurities produces localized energy states in the energy band structure of the semiconductor and alter the electronic properties of the material. Extrinsic doping by introducing an impurity produces electrically active defect center when such impurity occupies a vacant atom site or an interstitial site between the atoms in the atomic lattice of the host semiconductor crystal. Interactions between vacancies interstitials and impurities to form larger defect complexes can also occur. Intentionally changing the amount of vacancies can help control the incorporation of impurities in the crystal lattice and thus control the electrical properties of the semiconductor.

In order to manipulate the defect structure to produce a desired electrical or optical characteristics certain impurity related defects are preferred over others depending on the location of the defect levels within the band gap. Several methods are available to selectively favor the creation of a particular type of defects. These methods include co implantation and co diffusion of impurities as well as changing the composition of the gas during epitaxial growth.

In SiC points defects such as carbon vacancy V silicon vacancies V vacancy pairs V V antisite defects Cor Si or combination thereof can interact with extrinsic impurities to modify the electrical properties of SiC. For instance boron is known to produce two main acceptor levels in SiC.

Miyajima et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 120 review and discuss the role of boron in SiC and claim that the shallow acceptor level is due to boron occupying a silicon site B whereas the other deeper acceptor level is due boron occupying a carbon vacancy site VC. However several works have also shown that the deeper boron acceptor level could be due to a defect complex B V . Due to its shallower energy level Bis the preferred acceptor level for more efficient dopant activation. To promote preferential creation of this Bdefect various methods have been implemented ranging from co implantation of boron and carbon or control of the ratio of carbon and silicon atoms in the process gas during epitaxial growth and in situ doping by chemical vapor deposition.

A model known as site competition epitaxy D. J. Larkin P. G. Neudeck J. A. Powell and L. G. Matus Applied Physics Letters 65 1659 1994 explains how the incorporation of an impurity in SiC can be controlled by varying the Si C ratio in the growth ambient during chemical vapor deposition. Varying the Si C ratio changes the amount of silicon or carbon vacancies to selectively promote or suppress the incorporation of impurity atoms in the vacancies. In situ doping during epitaxial growth by chemical vapor deposition is carried out at temperatures of about 1450 C. for 4H and 6H SiC and about 1350 C. for 3C SiC. However as previously mentioned in situ doping by chemical vapor deposition is not suitable for selective doping of certain areas of a silicon carbide wafer.

In order to create vacancies such as Vor V to promote impurity dopant incorporation in silicon carbide SiC an elevated temperature is required with a greater number of vacancies being created as temperature increases. The formation energy of such vacancies is positive or endothermic which means that energy has to be input into the system to form or create the vacancies. For instance the formation energy of neutral Vin silicon rich 4H SiC is about 8.40 8.45 eV depending on lattice site and this is an energy loss process.

However if there is another chemical reaction that has a lower or even negative exothermic formation energy then it can be used to offset the energy required for vacancy formation. For instance in the case of silicon carbide the reaction between silicon and oxygen atoms to form silicon dioxide molecule is an exothermic process providing an energy gain of about 8.3 eV at 298 K assuming the reaction SiC O SiO C being the most probable of all possible oxidation reactions at temperatures below about 1750 K K. Negita Journal of the American Ceramic Society Vol. 69 No. 12 pp. C308 310 1986 . Therefore by heating silicon carbide in the presence of oxygen the process of silicon atoms from the silicon carbide crystal reacting with the oxygen atoms to form silicon dioxide and leaving behind silicon vacancies in the crystal is an energetically favorable process. The same is true if an oxide layer is place on top of the silicon carbide surface and heated to a sufficiently high temperature to cause the silicon atoms in the silicon carbide to diffuse into the oxide layer above to form silicon dioxide leaving behind silicon vacancies. In other words this chemical reaction between the silicon in the silicon carbide and the oxygen in the oxide layer assists in the creation of vacancies. Consequently silicon vacancies can be created in the silicon carbide crystal at a lower temperature.

The presence of the silicon vacancies then assists in the diffusion of impurity or dopant atoms into the silicon carbide crystal by allowing the dopant atoms to occupy the vacant silicon sites. The formation energy of a neutral phosphorus dopant occupying a silicon vacancy in 4H SiC is between 9 10 eV depending on the defect configuration. In the case of neutral boron occupying a silicon vacancy in 4H SiC the formation energy is between 6 7 eV. This process requires an energy input but the overall energy needs is still less than that of a process without oxidation.

The method of this invention combines the process of oxide assisted vacancy creation with the process of external impurity diffusion to enable the overall impurity doping process to be energetically favorable and made possible at lower temperatures.

The method of this invention can also apply if the assisting chemical reaction such as oxidation nitridation or carbonization gives rise to a compound that has a lower formation energy compared to the formation energy of the native elements that make up the semiconductor material.

The theoretical basis of this method can also be arrived at by comparing the relative stability and formation energy of metal carbide or metal oxide with that of silicon carbide. Such comparison can be used to find suitable materials for use with this method.

The method described herein enables the introduction of external impurities into Silicon Carbide SiC to be conducted at a temperature between 1150 1400 C. Further this method preferentially creates one type of vacancy over the other thus encouraging the diffusion of dopant into a preferred predominant vacancy to preferentially form the desired defects. Advantages include a low temperature diffusion procedure with better control of the doping process b prevent roughness of SiC surface c less surface defects and d better device performance and higher yield. The method described herein involves depositing a ceramic layer that contains the desired impurity and a certain element such as oxygen in the form of oxide or other elements compounds e.g. nitrides and carbides that draw out the silicon and carbon atoms from the surface region of the SiC leaving behind carbon and or silicon vacancies which then allow the external impurity to diffuse into the SiC more easily. In another embodiment the deposited layer also has carbon atoms that discourage carbon from escaping from the SiC thus generating a surface region of excess carbon in addition to the silicon vacancies.

In one aspect a method of doping a material comprises depositing a layer on the material the layer including an impurity and an oxide the layer and the material forming a sample and heating the sample at a diffusion temperature. The method further comprising heating the sample at a lower temperature before heating the sample at the diffusion temperature. Depositing is selected from the group consisting of dipping spinning brushing and dropping droplets with a dropper. The material is silicon carbide. In some embodiments the layer comprises a phosphorus impurity. In some embodiments the layer comprises phosphorus oxide and a component containing carbon. In some embodiments the layer comprises phosphorus and a component containing silicon but not carbon. In some embodiments the layer comprises a boron impurity. In some embodiments the layer comprises an element that is able to form a chemical bond with silicon with a formation energy lower than that of the bonding between silicon and carbon atoms in a surface region of silicon carbide. In some embodiments the layer comprises an element that is able to bond easily with a carbon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the bonding between silicon and carbon in a surface region of silicon carbide. In some embodiments the layer comprises a chemical that allows a solution of the layer to wet the surface of the sample and produces a uniformly thin film when the sample is spun in a spin coater. The lower temperature is approximately 650 C. The diffusion temperature is between 1150 1400 C. The method further comprises drying the sample. The method further comprises forming a solution to be deposited as the layer. The method further comprises removing the deposited layer from the sample upon the sample cooling. The deposited layer is removed by etching in a solution of hydrofluoric acid in water. In another embodiment the first temperature at 650 C. can be skipped which means heating the sample to the final temperature of 1150 1400 C. in a single step.

In another aspect an n type silicon carbide semiconductor in which phosphorus or a Group V metal is used as impurity in a silicon carbide substrate the n type silicon carbide semiconductor formed by depositing a layer on a silicon carbide material the layer including a phosphorus or a Group V metal impurity and an oxide the layer and the silicon carbide material forming a sample heating the sample at a first temperature and heating the sample at a second temperature. Depositing is selected from the group consisting of dipping spinning brushing and dropping droplets with a dropper. In some embodiments the layer comprises a phosphorus impurity. In some embodiments the layer comprises phosphorus oxide. The first temperature is approximately 650 C. The second temperature is between 1150 1400 C. The deposited layer is removed by etching in a solution of hydrofluoric acid in water. The sample is dried. The deposited layer is removed from the sample upon the sample cooling. The deposited layer is removed by etching in a solution of hydrofluoric acid in water. In another embodiment the first temperature step is skipped and the sample is heated to the final temperature of 1150 1400 C. in a single step.

In yet another aspect a p type silicon carbide semiconductor in which boron or a group III element is used as an acceptor impurity in a silicon carbide substrate the p type silicon carbide semiconductor formed by depositing a layer on a silicon carbide material the layer including a boron or group III impurity and an oxide the layer and the silicon carbide material forming a sample heating the sample at a first temperature and heating the sample at a second temperature. Depositing is selected from the group consisting of dipping spinning brushing and dropping droplets with a dropper. In some embodiments the layer comprises a boron impurity. In some embodiments the layer comprises boron oxide. In some embodiments the layer comprises an element that is able to form a chemical bond with silicon with a formation energy lower than that of the bonding between silicon and carbon atoms in a surface region of silicon carbide. The first temperature is approximately 650 C. The second temperature is between 1150 1400 C. In another embodiment the first temperature step is skipped and the sample is heated to the final temperature of 1150 C. in a single step. In some embodiments the layer comprises an element that is able to bond easily with a carbon atom with a bonding energy lower than that of the bonding energy between silicon and carbon in a surface region of silicon carbide. The deposited layer is removed by etching in a solution of hydrofluoric acid in water.

In another aspect of this invention a post diffusion annealing following dopant diffusion at the final temperature of 1150 1400 C. can heal any crystalline damage caused by the dopant diffusion process. In one embodiment of this method the sample is annealed at a temperature of about 500 C. for about 5 10 minutes in vacuum. In yet another embodiment of this method the sample is annealed at a temperature of about 700 C. for about 5 10 minutes in vacuum. In yet another embodiment of this method the post diffusion annealing temperature must not be above 900 C. to prevent damage to the crystalline structure.

The introduction of impurities known as doping is a crucial step in electronic device fabrication. Doping of silicon carbide SiC by impurities typically requires an activation or diffusion step conducted at high temperature between 1400 C. and 2200 C. At such high temperatures surface decomposition is able to occur which then leads to poor device performance and yield. To prevent surface decomposition elaborate steps are needed to provide an overpressure of silicon atoms at the surface of SiC. However due to the high temperature a certain degree of surface damage is still inevitable. Also any process that requires a temperature greater than about 1420 C. should not be applied for any polytype of silicon carbide deposited on silicon substrate because the silicon substrate will melt. The method described herein enables the introduction of external impurities into SiC to be conducted at a temperature between 1150 1400 C. The advantages of the method include a low temperature diffusion procedure with better control of the doping process b prevent roughness of SiC surface c less surface defects and d better device performance and higher yield. The method described herein involves depositing a ceramic layer that contains the desired impurity and a certain element such as oxygen in the form of oxide or other elements or compounds that draw out the silicon and carbon atoms from the surface region of the SiC leaving behind carbon and silicon vacancies which then allow the external impurity to diffuse into the SiC more easily. In another embodiment the deposited layer also has carbon atoms that discourage carbon from escaping from SiC thus generating a surface region of excess carbon in addition to the silicon vacancies.

I. G. Atabaev et al. described in Uzbekistan Patent No. UZ IAP02792 a method in which a saturated solution of boric acid or boron anhydride in methanol is deposited on the surface of silicon carbide by dipping the latter in the solution. The sample is then dried and annealed at 650 C. in air. This initial annealing step is followed by a drive in diffusion step which involves increasing the sample temperature to between 1150 1400 C. for 15 30 minutes to form a layer of borosilicate glass that acts as a source of boron to dope the silicon carbide layer. They attributed the observed higher diffusion rate of boron in their samples to the interaction between the carbon sublattice and air to create vacancies in the crystal.

The method described in the Uzbekistan patent does not provide a uniform film of boron compound on the surface of silicon carbide because the solution in methanol will not wet or adhere uniformly to the surface of the SiC. Consequently there will be patches on the surface of the sample where there are too many boron atoms than other parts of the sample causing surface deterioration and more surface defects.

In some embodiments a layer L including several components is deposited on silicon carbide in the step . The layer L is able to be a saturated liquid solution that is deposited on the surface of silicon carbide by dipping spinning brushing or just introducing droplets from a dropper. The layer L is also able to be deposited on silicon carbide using evaporation of a solid source or sputtering of a solid target. Other methods of depositing the layer L are also possible.

One of the components in the layer L is a desired impurity to be introduced into the silicon carbide . As is described below in some embodiments the impurity is phosphorus.

In some embodiments a component in the layer L is able to be an element that is able to form a chemical bond with silicon with a formation energy lower than that of the bonding between silicon and carbon atoms in the surface region of silicon carbide . In an embodiment this element is oxygen in the form of oxide of the impurity .

In some embodiments a component in the layer L is able to be an element that is able to bond easily with a carbon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the bonding between silicon and carbon in the surface region of silicon carbide . In an embodiment this element is oxygen in the form of the oxide of the impurity or in air .

In some embodiments a component in the layer L is able to be any chemical that allows the mixture to wet the surface of the semiconductor sample and produces a uniformly thin film when the sample is rotated or spun as in a spin coater. In some embodiments other and or additional components are included in the layer L .

In the step it is determined if the sample of silicon carbide and layer L needs to be dried. If the layer L is formed from a liquid solution the sample including the silicon carbide and the deposited layer L is then baked in an oven or air dried to remove the solvent in the layer L in the step . If the layer L is formed from a solid through vacuum evaporation or sputtering then no drying is necessary.

In the step the silicon carbide with the deposited layer L is then heated in oxygen at approximately 650 C. to form a glass like layer L . This step allows the layer L to flow and distribute the impurity compound uniformly or planarize over the surface.

In the step the silicon carbide with the deposited layer L is then heated in oxygen at a temperature between 1150 1400 C. for 30 minutes or longer depending on the depth of diffusion.

In the step on cooling to the ambient temperature the deposited layer L is then removed from the silicon carbide by etching in a solution of hydrofluoric acid in water or by another means.

To utilize the method described herein a layer L containing one or more components is deposited on silicon carbide forming a sample the sample is dried if necessary the sample is heated at approximately 650 C. the sample is also heated between 1150 1400 C. and the deposited layer L is removed. The result is a doped semiconductor. The method is implemented utilizing standard doping equipment or equipment modified configured as needed. To utilize a semiconductor generated by the method described herein additional steps are able to be taken to further modify the characteristics of the semiconductor as desired. A generated semiconductor is able to be used for many purposes such as transistors diodes and other devices.

In operation the method described herein is able to generate a doped material such as a semiconductor at a low temperature. The advantages of the method is a low temperature diffusion procedure that gives a better doping control b prevent decomposition and roughness of SiC surface c less surface defects d better device performance and higher yield and e a wide range of doping concentration is able to be obtained more efficiently and easily without expensive facilities and procedures. The semiconductor generated using the method described operates as any semiconductor device generated using another method with the exception of fewer surface defects and other improvements.

1 A layer L containing an impurity and another component or components that are able to form a chemical bond with a silicon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the chemical bond between silicon and carbon in the silicon carbide surface region when placed on silicon carbide and the sample is heated to 650 C. and subsequently annealed at 1150 1400 C. causes the formation of silicon vacancies in the surface region of silicon carbide thus allowing the desired impurity to diffuse at a faster rate than normal into the silicon vacancies to produce p type silicon carbide.

2 A layer L containing an impurity including but not limited to boron phosphorus and aluminum and another component or components that are able to form a chemical bond with a carbon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the chemical bond between silicon and carbon in the silicon carbide surface region when placed on silicon carbide and the sample is heated to 650 C. and subsequently annealed at 1150 1400 C. causes the formation of carbon vacancies in the surface region of silicon carbide thus allowing the impurity to diffuse at a faster rate than normal into the carbon vacancies to produce p type silicon carbide.

3 A layer L containing an impurity and a component or components that are able to form a chemical bond with a silicon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the chemical bond between silicon and carbon in the silicon carbide surface region and another component that contains carbon such as a photoresist or another carbon containing compound when placed on silicon carbide and the sample is heated to 650 C. and subsequently annealed at 1150 1400 C. causes the formation of a carbon rich surface region together with silicon vacancies in the surface region of silicon carbide thus allowing the desired impurity to diffuse at a faster rate than normal to occupy the silicon vacancies preferentially.

4 A layer L containing an impurity and a component or components that are able to form a chemical bond with carbon atom with a formation energy lower than that of the chemical bond between silicon and carbon in the silicon carbide surface region and another component that contains silicon such as silicon dioxide when placed on silicon carbide and the sample heated to 650 and subsequently annealed at 1150 1400 C. causes the formation of a silicon rich region as well as carbon vacancies in the surface region of silicon carbide thus allowing the impurity to diffuse at a faster rate than normal to occupy the carbon vacancies preferentially.

5 The methods are able to be used on a 3C polytype of silicon carbide 3C SiC epilayer grown on silicon substrate.

6 The methods are able to be used on a 6H polytype of silicon carbide 6H SiC epilayer grown on 6H SiC substrate.

7 The methods are able to be used on a 4H polytype of silicon carbide 4H SiC epilayer grown on 4H SiC substrate.

9 The layer L is able to be formed by vacuum evaporation e beam evaporation sputtering of solid sources by chemical vapor deposition using gaseous or metalorganic sources or another method.

10 The vacancies in SiC into which the impurity is able to selectively occupy are able to be controlled.

In some implementations the method described herein is able to be used for fabrication of ohmic contacts on n and p doped areas in the fabrication of SiC devices. In one embodiment of this method in the fabrication of SiC metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors the layer L containing boron oxide is deposited on the ion implanted areas of the source and drain contacts of p type SiC then the sample is annealed at 1150 1400 C. according to the procedure of . During this diffusion step the ion implanted area is activated accompanied by diffusion of more p type impurity atoms into the contact areas to produce ohmic contacts of low contact resistance. By avoiding the use of high temperature activation anneal this method can reduce surface damage to produce better devices. In another embodiment of this method the layer L containing phosphorus oxide is deposited on the ion implanted areas of the source and drain contacts of n type SiC then the sample is annealed at 1150 1400 C. according to the procedure of . During this diffusion step the ion implanted area is activated accompanied by diffusion of more n type impurity atoms into the contact areas to produce ohmic contacts of low contact resistance. In yet another embodiment the device to be fabricated can be other silicon carbide diodes and transistors.

In some embodiments a different material is doped instead of silicon carbide. In one embodiment of the method of this invention an improved ohmic contact can be made on n type gallium nitride by including an oxide of an n type dopant such as silicon in the layer L followed by diffusion annealing in oxygen at about 900 1000 C. for about 15 minutes. The layer L is then removed and a multilayer stack including titanium aluminum molybdenum and gold layers is deposited on the sample and the whole sample annealed at between 700 900 C. for 30 seconds to produce ohmic contact of low contact resistance. In another embodiment of this method the layer L containing an oxide of a p type dopant and gallium oxide is deposited on p type gallium nitride followed by diffusion annealing in oxygen at about 900 1000 C. for about 15 minutes. The layer L is then removed followed by conventional metallization and anneal.

The present invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments incorporating details to facilitate the understanding of principles of construction and operation of the invention. Such reference herein to specific embodiments and details thereof is not intended to limit the scope of the claims appended hereto. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that other various modifications may be made in the embodiment chosen for illustration without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

