---

title: Antenna for compact satellite terminal
abstract: An antenna for a compact satellite terminal. Antenna is a rigid parabolic structure of metal matrix composite capable of disassembly into segments affording a high degree of portability such as for man-packable satellite terminals and the like. A shallow feed horn assembly is joined to an orthomode transducer by a common hub, the hub also serving as the attachment point for a plurality of antenna segments, where a quick release means joins the segments to the hub. The feed horn, hub, orthomode transducer and antenna segments are designed for extremely compact stowability in a variety of applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07859479&OS=07859479&RS=07859479
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07859479
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080826
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 61 123 565 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Mar. 25 2008 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of ground based satellite communications equipment. More specifically the present invention relates to lightweight portable ground satellite communications terminals and stowable antenna structures to be used therewith.

Communication by satellite is essential in remote locations of the world where terrestrial communications networks do not exist. Moreover when moving about remote locations satellite communications equipment must be mobile. Smaller lighter satellite communications equipment affords greater mobility. Satellite communications in the higher frequency bands such as X K and Ku require a minimum transmit and receive directed gain that is much higher than the non directional gain of handheld satellite transceivers in the L band. Therefore to achieve the necessary directional gain mobile satellite transceivers in the X K and Ku bands require directional antenna systems generally comprising parabolically shaped reflecting surfaces.

Generally speaking while electronics have become smaller and more efficient over the years minimum antenna size remains bounded by the physics of electromagnetic radiation and the need for larger physical antenna size i.e. aperture to achieve a higher directed gain. It is not uncommon for antenna systems to comprise the least transportable component of modern portable satellite transceivers.

Efforts have been made to achieve a higher degree of transportability of satellite communications antenna systems. Early efforts employed umbrella like unfolding antennas comprising Mylar material stretched over lightweight metallic frameworks. Other efforts incorporated parabolic shaped recesses into the satellite terminal enclosures themselves. Many others efforts involved assembling sections of flat or semi flat panels into mosaics to achieve a larger reflecting surface. While some of these designs may indeed increase directed gain at low satellite frequencies such as in the L band they provide inherently unacceptable directive gain at X K and Ku bands. The design constraint which prior attempts face at higher frequencies is their inability to provide true parabolic reflecting surfaces necessary for narrow focused i.e. directed beamwidths required not only for gain but also for discriminating among adjacent geostationary satellites position in equatorial orbits.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2005 0212715 A1 to Saunders hereinafter Saunders attempts to overcome the effects of rain fade by increasing the physical reflecting surface of a fixed antenna reflector by adding extensions around its periphery. The invention in Saunders however provides no means for compacting the fixed portion of the antenna reflector. Therefore the invention in Saunders would not solve portability issues in transportable satellite communications terminals.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 833 to Nonaka et al discloses a parabolic antenna for television signal reception that affords a degree of transportability by virtue of having its means for positioning incorporated into the rear of the parabolic antenna where both comprise a common assembly joined by hinges. The problem not solved by Nonaka is reducing the transportable size of the parabolic antenna reflector.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 190 to Palmer et al discloses a deployable parabolic dish antenna where alternating sections of triangular and rectangular reflector surfaces are connected about the periphery of a stationary main reflector surface by hinges. Upon deployment the triangular and rectangular sections rotate outward to form a larger resultant parabolic reflecting surface centered about the main reflector. The problem with this approach is that the triangular and rectangular sections when not deployed are positioned perpendicularly to the main reflector resulting in the overall displaced volume of the antenna structure to be as great when stowed as when deployed.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 618 101 to Emde et al discloses a collapsible parabolic antenna for use on board satellites. The antenna in Emde employs at least one fixed semicircular segment and at least one movable semicircular segment which when rotated into position provide a 360 degree reflecting surface. Because this antenna is designed for automatic deployment the movable segments remain connected to the primary axis of the antenna structure at all times. The result therefore is that the stowed volume of the antenna is less but not significantly less than the deployed volume of the antenna.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 554 999 to Gupta et al discloses a collapsible flat antenna that provides phasing so as to simulate the antenna radiation characteristics of a parabolic dish reflector antenna. Phasing is accomplished by a plurality of reactive elements responsive to different frequencies within the antenna s bandwidth. The antenna disclosed in Gupta is intended to be a flexible structure allowing stowage by collapsible folding. One limitation of this approach is that phased antennas yield optimum radiation patterns at the specific frequency their reactive elements are designed for whereas parabolic reflecting antennas exhibit optimum radiation patterns across frequency bands. Another limitation of a flexible structure is the difficulty in physically supporting it and maintaining its orientation.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004 0196207 A1 to Schefter et al discloses a collapsible antenna for portable satellite terminals which employs a reflector assembly comprising a plurality of panels which may be connected to each other for deployment and disconnected for stowage. Connection of each panel to the other is by means of quarter turn quick release cam nuts. A separate boom arm is used to mount the feed assembly at a focused distance from the reflector assembly. Schefter discloses that the reflector is comprised of four 4 panels. However the antenna design suffers from large overall size because it is not a true parabolic structure and because it is a truncated structure the feed focus is necessarily deep as opposed to shallow feed focuses with non truncated parabolic structures.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 061 945 to Hull et al discloses a lightweight collapsible satellite communications dish antenna having a plurality of identical pre shaped sectors joined at their apex which can be stowed by rotating all of the sectors about their apex so as to result in their lying substantially atop each other. The invention in Hull inherently requires that the sectors be made of a highly flexible material so as to be capable of being drawn into a curvature shape upon deployment while also capable of returning to a flat shape for stowage. Hull does not disclose any cognizable means for mounting a signal feed means at the dish focus.

What the prior art fails to provide and what is needed therefore is an antenna which 1. is extremely compactable when stowed and 2. still retains true parabolic reflector properties when deployed.

The present invention provides an apparatus for terrestrial based satellite communications which provides improved transportability over the prior art.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an antenna for a compact satellite terminal which exhibits characteristic parabolic radiation patterns at all angles.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna for a compact satellite terminal which utilizes a shallow compact feed to reduce both its deployed and stowed volume.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna for a compact satellite terminal which requires no tools for assembly disassembly and to change polarization.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna meeting all of the above objectives yet being adaptable to a variety of satellite terminals operating at a variety of different frequencies.

An additional object of the present invention is to overcome a lack in the prior art of portable satellite antenna designs some of which are compact but offer neither true parabolic characteristics nor ruggedness.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects by providing an antenna for a compact satellite terminal. The antenna is a rigid parabolic structure of metal matrix composite capable of disassembly into segments affording a high degree of portability such as for man packable satellite terminals and the like. A shallow feed horn assembly is joined to an orthomode transducer by a common hub the hub also serving as the attachment point for a plurality of antenna segments where a quick release means joins the segments to the hub. The feed horn hub orthomode transducer and antenna segments are designed for extremely compact stowability in a variety of applications.

In a fundamental embodiment of the present invention an antenna for a compact satellite terminal has a hub with a input side an output side and a plurality of slots equidistantly located on the periphery of the hub where a plurality of antenna segments being equal in number to said plurality of the slots are removably attached into and where a feed horn and an orthomode transducer are removably attached to the input and the output sides of the hub.

Still according to a fundamental embodiment of the present invention an antenna for a compact satellite terminal where each of the plurality of antenna segments are removably attached into each of the like plurality of said slots by means of a tab one end of which forms an anchor being fastened to each antenna segment and the other end of which forms a tenon like projection and also by detents located on at least one surface of each tenon like projection into which spring actuated balls located inside at least one surface of said slot of said hub captively mate to secure each tab into its respective slot.

Still yet according to a fundamental embodiment of the present invention an antenna for a compact satellite terminal where each of the plurality of antenna segments are conductive composite structures fabricated from a nickel nanostrand metal matrix composite material.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention describes an antenna design that collapses into an optimally dense package for stowage and carrying and which can be easily set up and taken down. Such an antenna would find application in very compact and highly portable satellite communications terminals. The invention incorporates a number of unique features which collectively result in a very lightweight and compact system which can be configured to support full duplex communications over satellites in earth orbit. These satellites are in most cases envisioned to be in geosynchronous orbit with the satellite terminal antenna in a fixed orientation during the communications session. However transportable terminal designs should be readily modifiable to provide for active tracking of the antenna for use on a moving platform or with non geosynchronous satellites. Those skilled in the art would appreciate a practical implementation of the invention as readily applicable to a backpack transportable system weighing at 20 lbs or less and having rough stowed package dimensions of about one cubic foot or less i.e. 12 inches by 12 inches by 12 inches . Such a terminal is depicted in . Typical operating frequency bands would be around 7 Ghz to 40 Ghz e.g. X band Ku band Ka band . The present invention is by no means limited to these frequency bands however. It should be noted that the present invention is entirely scalable so as to provide whatever aperture gain is required at any frequency.

Still referring to the present invention provides compact transportable terminal aperture gain by a novel parabolic antenna having a single reflecting surface no secondary reflector to a shallow feed positioned at the reflector focus. For supporting significant full duplex data rates of around 512 Kbs to 2 Mbs and to maintain reasonably narrow beamwidths to minimize potential intersatellite interference aperture sizes of 18 to 30 inches in diameter would be required. However apertures of any size whatsoever are within the scope of this invention.

Referring to because a single piece parabolic reflector would be too large to conveniently transport the present invention provides a means to assemble a parabolic reflector from a plurality of trapezoidal shaped segments which plug into a hub with the antenna feed at its center. One skilled in the art would note that while a smaller or larger number of segments could be employed without limiting the utility if the invention six segments have been chosen for a particular embodiment of the invention intended to fit within a terminal package for stowage and transport having an approximate 12 inch by 12 inch footprint. An exploded view shows the segmentation of the antenna reflector with feed in center antenna hub block composite antenna segments with integral end tabs for attachment to the hub .

Referring to depicting a partially assembled view of the antenna assembly with feed in center. The reflector segments are preferably made from a single shell about 0.050 thick of a high electrical conductivity graphite composite material which has an attached or molded in end connector tab by which it is pressed into the hub. Suitable composite materials for the reflector segments include metal matrix composites such as but not limited to nickel nanostrand. The tab receiver slot not shown see in the hub preferably incorporates a small spring plunger not shown see that provides for a snap fit to hold the tab in place while allowing it to be easily pulled free with a light tug. Alternatively the spring plunger may be located within the hub slot and a corresponding detent located on the tab. Additionally the tab may be tapered and or lengthened in more than one dimension to mate with a similar taper and length in the hub slot not shown see for greater retention. Other means for retention of the tab into the slot are clearly within the scope of this invention.

Referring to a close up view of antenna hub and pedal shows how tab at end of petal interlocks with slot in hub . Note detent not shown in tab for spring loaded pin inside hub slot . Also note that hub slots and tabs are slightly tapered on three sides for ease of assembly. Segments may also incorporate a spline along their edges that would interlock with corresponding grooves or slots not shown on the edges of adjacent segments for adding rigidity to the antenna when assembled. Other modes of interlocking the segments to accomplish the same certainly exist. In an embodiment of the present invention the metal matrix composite composition of the segments provides sufficient rigidity without the need for splines .

Referring to shows a rear view of the segmented antenna of the present invention as fully assembled. The orthomode transducer hereinafter OMT is visible from this rear view.

Referring to shows the antenna hub relationship to the feed horn OMT as an assembly. Signals feed into and out of the OMT into and out of a terminal electronics box not shown see . The feed horn and the OMT rotate radially with respect to each other and are held together by the antenna hub .

Still referring to the antenna feed comprises two sections an OMT portion behind the reflector and the feed horn section at the front surface of the reflector . The feed horn can be hand rotated relative to the OMT which is fixed to the hub for the purpose of changing polarization. Detents not shown on the OMT mating surface combined with a small spring plunger not shown on the feed horn mating surface serve to index the position of each polarization eg. LHCP RHCP . The feed horn side can thus be rotated along the radial axis about or 90 degrees to change polarization. Circular polarizations are also with the scope of the present invention. Additionally in one embodiment of the invention an internal pin not shown located in a 90 degree arced groove or slot not shown is employed to index the polarization by limiting the rotation of the feed horn relative to the OMT to 90 degrees. A slight amount of friction between the feed horn and the cap eliminates slop and backlash and is provided by an elastomeric ring functioning as a bearing surface .

Referring to the antenna of the present invention is depicted with an exemplary compact satellite terminal in the stowed position. The feed horn hub and OMT assembly hidden from view with the antenna reflector segments detached rotates backward into a position in which the feed horn is aligned parallel with the feed support arms. From here the elevation arms can be lowered into a position of zero degrees with the horizon with the feed flat with the top of the box. The antenna reflector segments are then stacked on top of the feed with the curved edge over the protruding edge of the hub for maximum storage compactness. A cover typically would snap over the top of the box for transport.

To deploy an exemplary compact satellite terminal incorporating the antenna of the present invention the elevation arms are raised to an angle where the feed and hub assembly can be rotated around feed pivot point into a position perpendicular to the elevation arms. A spring loaded pin is employed to hold the feed and hub assembly in this position. The antenna reflector segments are then snapped into place and the deployed configuration take the exemplary form of that depicted in . The pointing and signal acquisition process can typically now begin by first setting the elevation angle.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

