---

title: Providing private access point services in a communication system
abstract: A private access point may be utilized to establish a local network that is accessible by client devices when the client devices are communicatively coupled to the private access point. The private access point is then operable to determine services that may be provided in its local network to the client devices, and to advertise these services within its local network. The services comprise network and/or data accessibility, and bandwidth availability. Private access points are also operable to utilize local and/or remote resources to provide additional services, comprising audio/video processing capability, storage, and/or processing. Offering of services in private access point networks is incentivized to the private access points and/or to client devices. Incentives comprise offering pay and/or credit to the private access points. Providing access to, blocking, limiting and/or modifying available/offered services is managed in private access point networks, based on incentives and/or availability of resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08797943&OS=08797943&RS=08797943
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08797943
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate to communication. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for providing private access point services in a communication system.

The growth of system connectivity has been one of the major developments in recent years. Fewer and fewer systems are operating as a stand alone system and most of today s systems are increasingly becoming elements of one or more larger or complex networks. This growth in various networking technologies have provided improved performance and increased flexibility for these networks. Various wired and or wireless based communication standards have been developed to satisfy demands for ever expanding system connectivity. The growth of system connectivity has also spurred a growth in applications that takes advantage of the benefits offered by the improved system connectivity especially those having access to entities that provides improved processing and or storage capabilities.

Communication end point devices which are mobile and or stationary comprise a plurality of wireless technologies to enable use of various interfaces for transmitting and or receiving data. For example mobile devices which enable cellular connectivity have become a near absolute necessity in today s world. While mobile technology originally evolved from traditional land based communication technologies and was merely intended to add an element of mobility to the traditional telephony service this technology has grown beyond that initial purpose. Many modern mobile technologies including such technologies as GSM GPRS EDGE UMTS CDMA2000 and LTE incorporate substantial data capabilities. Most of today s mobile services comprise such features as text messaging audio video streaming and web browsing. Modern mobile devices for example cell phones and or smart phones are utilized to support additional services via other wireless interfaces for example wireless personal area networks WPAN and or wireless local area network WLAN interfaces.

The use of wireless personal area networks WPAN continues to gain popularity in a great number of applications because of the flexibility and convenience in connectivity they provide. WPAN systems generally replace cumbersome cabling and or wiring used to connect peripheral devices and or mobile terminals by providing short distance wireless links that allow connectivity within very narrow spatial limits typically a 10 meter range . An exemplary WPAN system utilizes a standardized technology such as Class 2 Bluetooth BT technology. While WPAN may be very beneficial for certain applications other applications may require larger service areas and or capabilities. To satisfy such needs other technologies such as Wireless local area networks WLAN have been developed to provide greater wireless service. In contrast to the WPAN systems WLAN provide connectivity to devices that are located within a slightly larger geographical area such as the area covered by a building or a campus for example.

WLAN systems are generally based on specific standards for example IEEE 802.11 standard specifications and typically operate within a 100 meter range and are generally utilized to supplement the communication capacity provided by traditional wired Local Area Networks LANs installed in the same geographic area as the WLAN system. Some WLAN systems are operated in conjunction with WPAN systems to provide users with an enhanced overall functionality. For example Bluetooth technology may be utilized to connect a laptop computer or a handheld wireless terminal to a peripheral device such as a keyboard mouse headphone and or printer while the laptop computer or the handheld wireless terminal is also connected to a campus wide WLAN network through an access point AP located within the building. Also mobile technology enables the use of the mobile phone as a form of wireless modem that allows connecting a laptop for example to the internet via a mobile network. More recently Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX based systems have become popular and use of WiMAX to provide wireless connectivity is expanding.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for providing private access point services in a communication system substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for providing private access point services in a communication system. In various embodiments of the invention private access points are operable to establish and service private access point networks. The private access points are operable to determine services that are available via the corresponding private access point networks to one or more user end point client devices when the client devices are communicatively coupled to the private access points via wired and or wireless links. The services are based on network access data accessibility and or functionality available via the private access points. Available services are advertised in the private access point networks via the private access points. The advertisement operations are performed via beacons and or utilizing for example personalized markup language interfaces such as HTML XML and or other suitable text audio and or video interfaces. Secondary devices and or systems external to and or remote from the private access points are operable to advertise and or offer content or functionality via the advertising functionality in the private access points. The private access points are also operable to utilize local and or remote resources to provide additional services including for example audio and or video processing capability storage and or processing. The offering and or requesting of services in the private access point networks is incentivized to the private access points and or to the client devices. The private access points are operable to request and or receive pay and or credit for providing services. Accounts corresponding to the client devices may also be debited based on services received via the private access point networks. Servicing operations in the private access point networks may be supported and or managed by network service providers via operator support servers for example. The operator support servers enable managing for example user accounts and or network accessibility provided via the private access point networks and or managing crediting billing operations based on servicing operations in the private access point networks.

The plurality of communication networks comprises one or more networks that are operable to enable wireless and or wired communication among a plurality of local and or remote entities. The network connectivity available via the plurality of communication networks is based on one or more communication standards and or protocols. The plurality of communication networks comprises for example the cellular network the Internet the WWAN and or the WLAN . The cellular network comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable communication via one or more cellular technologies. Exemplary cellular technologies comprise CDMA WCDMA CDMA1000 HSDPA GSM GPRS EDGE and or UMTS. The cellular network comprise for example a plurality of control and or switching nodes and a plurality of base stations that enable transmission and or reception of cellular based communications between the cellular network and cellular capable devices.

The Internet comprises a system of interconnected networks to enable exchange of data between a plurality of nodes based on one or more networking standards including for example the Internet protocol IP . For example the Internet enables connectivity among a plurality of private and public academic business and or government nodes and networks. The physical connectivity is provided in the Internet for example via the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN via copper wires fiber optic cables wireless interface and or other standards based interfaces. The transport functionality is performed in the Internet for example based on one or more protocols including for example the TCP IP protocol.

The WWAN comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable implementation of one or more wireless wide network area standards and or protocols. Exemplary wireless wide network area technologies comprise for example WiMAX based networks. The WLAN comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable implementation of one or more wireless local network area standards and or protocols. Exemplary wireless local network area technologies comprise for example 802.11 based standards including for example WiFi based networks.

Each of the communication devices and comprises a personal end point device and or system that is operable to enable performing tasks and or applications requested via users of the communication devices. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the communication devices and are operable to communicate with one or more the AP servicing devices and or to form communication pathways that support one or more applications originating and or terminating in the communication devices. Exemplary devices comprise PDAs Smart phones laptops and or other PCs that are operable to enable utilizing one or more wired and or wireless communication interface. Exemplary wireless and or wired interfaces comprise for example WiFi Bluetooth and or other personal area network WPAN based interfaces USB and or proprietary inter device standards based interfaces.

Each of the AP servicing devices and comprises a privately owned and or operated communication device that is dedicated to establish and or service of the private AP networks and . Each of the AP servicing devices and or comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable performing network setup management and or control operations within the private AP networks and or . Additionally and to facilitate providing network accessibility servicing via private AP networks the AP servicing devices and or are operable to enable network connectivity to one or more of the communication networks via one or more wireless and or wired interfaces. For example each the AP servicing devices and may be operable to utilize cellular links Ethernet links WiMAX links and or 802.11 links to enable establishing network connectivity via cellular network the Internet the WWAN and or the WLAN .

The operator support server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable providing and or managing network accessibility. The operator support server is utilized for example by service providers to enable providing access to one or more of the plurality of communication networks to a plurality of users. The operator support server is operable to enable management of user accounts and or network access during operations of the AP servicing devices and or . The operator support server is also operable to manage user accounts and or network access during operations of the communication devices and or . The secondary advertising server comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable providing supporting and or supplementing advertising operations in the private AP networks and or via the AP servicing devices and or .

Each of the remote resources comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable supporting services provided via AP servicing devices. The remote resource is operable for example to provide processing and or storage operations that are unavailable directly via the AP servicing devices and or but which are necessary to facilitate providing servicing operations in the private AP networks and or . The invention is not limited to a specific device and may comprise for example a general purpose processing device a specialized processing device a specialized peripheral device or any combination of suitable hardware and or code that is enabled to perform a task requested via the AP servicing devices and or . The remote resource also comprises functionality to enable remote communication with private AP servicing devices via the one or more the communication networks for example.

The remote resources may comprise for example a home PC that comprises improved processing subsystems and or increased memory space which may be utilized to store and or retrieve media streams that are offered in the private AP network via the AP servicing devices. The local resource comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that support servicing operations provided via AP servicing devices. The local resource is substantially similar to the remote resource and is also operable to provide for example processing and or storage operations that are unavailable directly in the AP servicing devices but are necessary to servicing operations in private AP networks. The local resource however is operable to enable local and or direct communication with private AP servicing devices via one or more wired and or wireless links that are available via the AP servicing devices. For example the local resources comprise a portable PC a laptop for example which is operable to communicate with the AP servicing device via WiFi and or Ethernet crossover cable to enable storage and or retrieval of media streams that are offered in the private AP network via the AP servicing device .

In operation the AP servicing devices and or enable establishing the private AP networks and or respectively. The private AP networks represent for example localized networks wherein user end point devices present within operational proximity of the AP servicing devices may establish connectivity with the AP servicing devices to request and or receive services available in the private AP network. For example the AP servicing device may establish the private AP network wherein a plurality of services provided via the AP servicing device may be made available in the private AP network .

The services provided via the private AP networks comprise for example network accessibility. For example the AP servicing device is communicatively coupled to one or more of the plurality of the communication networks via one or more wired and or wireless links. Connectivity of the AP servicing device is established for example via a WiMAX link a cellular link an 802.11 link and or an Ethernet based and or fiber optical cable wired connection. The communication devices and or request network connectivity through the private AP network via the AP servicing device . In instances where the communication devices and or have no direct network access to the plurality of communication networks these devices are operable to establish instead connections with the AP servicing device to gain network access via the network connectivity of the AP servicing device . The connection between the communication device and the AP servicing device may be setup via a wireless connection over Bluetooth and or WiFi links for example. The connection between the communication device and the AP servicing device may be setup and or via a wired connection such as an Ethernet crossover cable for example.

The services provided via the private AP network comprise for example network accessibility. For example the AP servicing device may be connected to one or more of the plurality of the communication networks via one or more wired and or wireless links. AP servicing device connectivity is established for example a WiMAX wireless link a cellular link an 802.11 link via Ethernet based wired connection and or fiber optical cables. Accordingly the communication devices and or may request network connectivity through the private AP network via the AP servicing device . For example the communication device may lack any direct network access to the plurality of communication networks . The communication device establishes instead a connection with the AP servicing device to gain network access via the AP servicing device s network connectivity. The connection between the communication device and the AP servicing device may be setup via wireless connection over Bluetooth link for example and or via wired connection via Ethernet crossover cable for example. Network connectivity of the AP servicing device is also utilized when the requesting device has some network access of its own. For example in instances where network connectivity of the communication device is limited to 802.11 links network access through the AP servicing device via WiMAX and or cellular 3G links for example is deemed more desirable due to higher bandwidth quality of service QOS and or network performance.

Other services in addition to network accessibility may be available via private AP networks. Local and or remote resources are operable to provide additional services in the private AP networks via the AP servicing devices. For example the AP servicing device is operable to offer via the private AP network services based on data and or functionality available via one or more of the remote resource . These services may also be available where the private AP networks are inoperable to provide network access. For example in instance where network connectivity to the plurality of communication networks for example is lost the AP servicing device is operable to offer via the private AP network services based on data and or functionality available locally via one or more of the local resource . The communication devices and or are operable for example to connect to the AP servicing device via WiFi links for example to request and or retrieve video and or audio streams that are stored in and or played from local resource via the AP servicing device .

In an exemplary aspect of the invention private AP network servicing operations are incentivized. In this regard the private AP servicing operations is incentivize to the AP servicing devices for example by enabling them and or their users to receive and or claim compensation pay and or credit for provide private AP services. The credit received for provide private AP network servicing is utilized for example to compensate for costs otherwise charged by service provider when the AP servicing devices are utilized to access networks operated by the service providers. The user accounts corresponding to the devices utilizing the private AP network servicing operations may be adjusted to bill and or debit their users for services provided via the private AP networks. The operator support server is operable for example to manage accounts corresponding to the AP servicing device and or the communication devices and or . Accordingly the AP servicing device is operable to request credit and or billing adjustments for servicing the communication devices and or via the operator support server . In instances where the operator support server does not directly manage the user account for either of the devices receiving and or providing private AP services the operator support server communicates directly with other operator support servers to facilitate exchange of required user related information to enable performing necessary billing and or crediting adjustments. Alternatively a centralized depository is utilized to enable indirect exchange of user related information by instances of the operator support server .

The private AP servicing operations are also incentivized to the requesting devices. For example private AP services may be preferred because the private AP networks offer network accessibility improved bandwidth and more suitable content functionality and or networking capabilities. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the communication devices and the AP servicing devices are operable to negotiate incentivized arrangements to enhance servicing incentives with regard to the requesting communication devices the AP servicing devices and or service providers. For example where the AP servicing device is only offering 10 of its available network bandwidth for networking accessibility in the private AP network the communication device is operable to negotiate with the AP servicing device for allocation of 20 of the available bandwidth in exchange for larger credit and or higher pay.

The private AP network is operable to enable advertisement operations. For example the AP servicing devices and or may be operable to transmit service beacons. In addition to providing information that enable identifying and or locating the private AP networks and or the beacons also comprise information advertising the services available in the private AP networks. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the AP servicing devices and or are also operable to utilize user interface communication functionality. The user interface communication functionality is operable for example to enable user friendly interactions between the AP servicing devices and or and communication devices in the private AP networks and or . The user interface communication functionality is also operable to enable advertising and or configuring services available in the corresponding private AP networks and or . The AP servicing devices and or are operable for example to utilize personalized markup language interfaces comprising for example HTML XML and or other suitable text audio and or video interfaces.

In an exemplary aspect of the invention the personalized interface is utilized to create and or manage advertising and or servicing webpages during interactions between servicing devices and requesting devices. Accordingly the personalized interface enables users of the communication devices and or for example to conveniently communicate with the AP servicing devices to inquire about available services and or to request and or receive services for example media stream downloads. The personalized interfaces are also operable to enable performing incentivizing operations including for example enabling the devices to negotiate and or throttle bandwidth allocation. The AP servicing devices and or are operable to enable secondary devices and or systems which are external to and or remote from the servicing devices to utilize their personalized interface functionality. For example the secondary advertising server is operable to create it own advertising webpage and push the webpage via the personalized interfaces of AP servicing devices and or to offer content and or functionality available directly or indirectly via the secondary advertising server .

The operator support server is substantially as described with respect to . In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the operator support server comprises a plurality of constituent functional entities to enable supporting private AP network services. The operator support server comprises for example the browser API entity the map search engine the users account management and the billing management .

The browser API entity comprises suitable logic and or code operable to enable communication between the operator support server and other devices and or systems. The browser API entity is operable for example to enable communication of messaging pertaining to support and or management of private AP network services and or to enable communication pertaining to user accounts to request for example crediting and or billing adjustments for one or more users serviced via the operator support server . The browser API entity is operable to enable supporting messaging that is based on application programming interface API which is specific to a functionality running in the operator support server and is supported in devices communicating with the operator support server . Alternatively the browser API entity is operable to enable for example remote access and or communication based on an HTTP based browsing interface. Accordingly the browser API entity enables running an HTTP based server functionality via the operator support server that enable establishing peer to peer connection with HTTP based client functionality running in the requesting device. In an exemplary aspect of the invention the browser API entity is also operable to enable communication among a plurality of the operator support server directly and or indirectly via centralized depositories during exchange of user account information for example for the purpose of performing crediting and or billing operations.

The map search engine comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable mapping specified locations to one or more devices operated and or managed via the operator support server . The operator support server is operable for example to receive requests for listing of private AP networks and or services available via the private AP networks based on a specified location. The map search engine is operable to enable determining and communication information pertaining to private AP servicing devices based on the location of the requesting device. The determination of private AP servicing devices that are reported back is based on a plurality of factors comprising for example suitability to provide services based on operational proximity of the devices and or other conditions including for example specified services and or parameters of services.

The user account management comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of user related information. The user account management is utilized for example to enable setting up storing maintaining and or updating user s network access related information. The user account management may enable for example creation and or maintenance of access information that enable identifying and or authenticating users seeking to access one or more communication networks that are manageable via the operator support server directly and or via private AP network services. The user account management is operable for example to perform user authentication based on SIM challenge wherein the SIM based information provided by communication devices are compared to stored information. The access information comprises various types of information including for example user identifiers user passwords and or location and or addressing related information for devices used by users managed by the operator support server . At least some of access information is provided directly by the operator support server . To enable performing the various user account related operation dedicated sub entities are utilized within the user account management . For example the address location functionality comprises functionality that enables creating managing and or modifying users location related information.

The address location function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to enable for example performing necessary mapping operations via the map search engine . In an exemplary aspect of the invention users location information may also be generated and or updated in the address location functionality during mapping operations in the map search engine .

The bandwidth limitation function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that comprises functionality that enables creating managing and or modifying users bandwidth related information. The bandwidth limitation functionality is operable for example to enable tracking bandwidth available and applicable constraint thereof via private AP servicing devices during private AP network servicing operations.

The billing management function comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of billing information via the operator support server . For example the billing management comprises functionality that enables setting up storing maintaining and or updating users billing information as it pertains to network accessibility provided via one or more communication devices that are supported and or managed via the operator support server . In an exemplary aspect of the invention the billing management is operable to enable performing billing functionality related to private AP network servicing operations. For example the billing management is operable to enable billing user accounts corresponding to one or more of the communication devices and or when requesting and or receiving services via the private AP networks and or . The credit management comprises functionality that is operable to perform crediting functions related to private AP network servicing operations. For example the credit management is operable to enable crediting users accounts corresponding to one or more of the private AP servicing devices and or when providing services via the private AP networks and or . The private AP based billing and or crediting operations are performed via the billing management and or the credit management based on messaging between the operator support server and the requesting device and or based on messaging among a plurality of instances of the operator support server substantially as described with regard to for example .

In operation the browser API entity the map search engine the users account management the address location function the bandwidth limitation function the billing management and or the credit management function are utilized to enable use of the operator support server to manage and or support private AP servicing operations via the private AP networks and or . For example the browser API entity is utilized to enable private AP servicing devices and or requesting communication devices to communicate with the operator support server . The user account management the address location function the bandwidth limitation function are utilized to validate and or manage users accounts and or network access limitations and or requirements. The map search engine and or the address location function are utilized to provide mapping functionality that is utilized for example to enable communication devices to locate nearby private AP servicing devices. The billing management and or the credit management function are utilized to enable performing billing crediting operation that enable billing serviced communication devices and or crediting and or paying private AP servicing devices for services provided via private AP networks.

The private AP data management comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code that enable management of advertising operations performed via private AP networks. The private AP data management is utilized for example to enable creating webpage experience that is operable to communicate with and or advertise to users of communication devices serviced via private AP networks.

The personal info entity is comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to enable creating storing and or updating information pertaining to particular users that is relevant to the personalization of webpages for example. This information comprises for example access validation information accounting related information bandwidth limitations and or location mapping related information. The content channels entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to enable creating storing and or updating information that pertains to the contents that is offered via the advertised webpages via the secondary advertising server . The index categories entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to create store and or manage indexing of information and or content available via the secondary advertising server . For example the index categories entity is operable to enable the private AP servicing device to locate and access information that are utilized in advertising services and or content to communication devices serviced via the private AP network . The popularity info entity comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to track for example current activity by users of communication devices via the private AP networks in order to predict potential future interests to better optimize advertisement operations in the secondary advertising server for example.

The browser API entity is substantially similar to the browser API as described with regard to for example . The browser API entity is operable for example to enable communication between the secondary advertising server and private AP servicing devices for example one of the private AP servicing devices and to enable providing remote advertising functionality via the private AP servicing devices during private AP network servicing operations.

The map search engine is substantially similar to the map search engine as described with regard to for example . The map search engine is operable for example to enable communication between the secondary advertising server and private AP servicing devices for example one of the private AP servicing devices and to enable providing remote advertising functionality via the private AP servicing devices during private AP network servicing operations.

In operation the private AP data management the personal info entity the content channels entity the index categories entity the popularity info entity the browser application programming interface browser API entity and or the map search engine are utilized to enable use of the secondary advertising server to utilize advertising functionality available via the private AP networks and or . For example the browser API entity is utilized to enable private AP servicing devices and or requesting communication devices to communicate with the secondary advertising server . The map search engine is utilized for example to provide mapping functionality that is utilized to enable matching communication devices to nearby private AP servicing devices. The private AP data management is utilized to enable utilizing personalized interfaces available via the private AP servicing devices and or to advertise services and or content available via the secondary advertising server . The personal info entity is utilized to enable creating storing and or updating users information which is pertinent for example to personalization of advertising webpages created via the secondary advertising server . The content channels entity the index categories entity and or the index categories entity are operable to create content provide access to information and or content and or to track trends based on advertising operations provided by the secondary advertising server via the private AP networks and or .

The end point device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to received services in a private AP network via an AP servicing device. The end point corresponds for example to any of the communication devices and or substantially as described with regard to for example . To enable performing private AP network based operations via the end point device the end point comprises a private AP client . For example the private AP client comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing dedicated client side private AP networking related control and or communication in the end point device . The private AP client is operable to enable exchanging messaging with corresponding entity in the AP servicing device .

The AP servicing device comprises suitable logic circuitry and or code operable to establish and service a private AP network. The AP servicing device corresponds for example to any of the private AP servicing devices and or substantially as described with regard to for example . To enable performing private AP network related operations via the AP servicing device the AP servicing device comprises a network server NS access point AP server . For example the NS AP server comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing dedicated server side private AP related control and or communication in the AP servicing device to facilitate peer to peer type of connectivity between the AP servicing device and the end point device . The NS AP server also comprises logic circuitry and or code that enable performing network accessibility servicing related communication via the AP servicing device to facilitate accessing one of more available networks in the plurality of communication networks for example. The NS AP server is operable for example to enable exchanging messages with a corresponding entity in the end point device and or to enable messaging with the operator support server .

The operator support server is substantially similar to the operator support server as described with regard to for example . The operator support server is operable to enable supporting and or managing private AP network servicing operations.

In operation the end point device joins a private AP network established via the AP servicing device when the devices are within operational proximity of each other. Where the end point device lacks for example direct and or adequate network accessibility the end point device is operable to establish data sessions via the AP servicing device . The end point device sends via the private AP client a session request message Session Request to the AP servicing device to request establishment of data session via the network connectivity of the private AP device . The AP servicing device then determines whether it is able to provide network connectivity substantially as described with regard to for example .

The AP servicing device communicates a 3party connection request message 3rd Party Connection Req to the operator support server to indicate that a connection is requested via the AP servicing device on behalf of another communication device. The operator support server responds with a challenge message Challenge with intended response . The challenge message enables authentication of the requesting device the end point device . The challenge message requires the end point device to provide certain information via a response message Response wherein the information is utilized in conjunction with the intended response provided in the Challenge and retained in the AP servicing device to perform necessary authentication for example. In instances where the authentication is successful the AP servicing device communicates to the operator support server a response confirmation and account request message Response Cfm and Account Req . This message confirms the success of the authentication and requests crediting and or billing adjustments based on the services that are to be provided to the end point device via the AP servicing device . The operator support server is operable to respond with an access granted message Access Granted and Account Start indicating to the AP servicing device that the end point device is granted network access and or indicating that necessary accounting operations for example billing and or crediting are initiated. The AP servicing device is operable to send a session start message Session Start to the end point device to authorize initiation of the session. During action session the end point device sends and or receives data via the AP servicing device .

In an exemplary aspect of the invention the operator support server is operable to utilize dedicated functionality and or messaging to monitor and or validate the crediting and or the billing operations during private AP network servicing operations. The end point device for example may be required to communicate periodic encoded heartbeat messages to the operator support server . The encoded heartbeats utilize for example encoding decoding algorithms that are only known to the end point device and the operator support server . Use of the encoded heartbeat messages enables the operator support server to track network access by the end point device to ensure that the end point device is billed and or that the AP servicing device is credited only to extent of actual servicing of the end point device via the AP servicing device .

To perform user initiated session termination the end point device sends a session end request message Session End Req to the AP servicing device . The AP servicing device then sends a session end and accounting update request message Session End and Account Update Req to the operator support server to notify it of the termination of the data session and or to request completing accounting operations including billing and or crediting adjustments in the operator support server .

In some instances the operator support server is operable to perform operator initiated session termination by sending a session end message Session End to the AP servicing device . The operator initiated session termination may be performed when operator support server determines that one or more conditions occur comprising for example heartbeat and or decoding errors. The AP servicing device then sends a send message indication message Session End mnd to the end point device to notify it of the termination of the data session.

The AP servicing device is also operable to perform AP initiated session termination . Where a session disconnection is detected via the AP servicing device the AP servicing device sends a detected disconnect indication and accounting update message Detected Disconnect and Account Update Req to the operator support server to notify it of the termination of the data session and to request completing accounting operations including billing and or crediting tracking functionality in the operator support server . The operator support server communicates an account update and termination confirmation message Account Update and Termination Cfm back to the AP servicing device .

In step a private AP network is established via a user end point device. For example the AP servicing devices and or are operable to establish the private AP networks and or substantially as described with regard to for example . In step the AP servicing device determines and offers available services in the corresponding private AP network. For example the AP servicing devices and or determine services that may be available via these devices in the private AP networks and or . The determination of the availability of services is based on a plurality of factors including for example network access available via the AP servicing devices use and or operational requirements for performing tasks requested by users of the AP servicing devices within their capacity as user end point devices and or incentives offered and or accepted for providing the services.

The determined services and or any additional criteria for availing such service may then be offered in the private AP network via advertising beacon signals and or via personalize webpage like interface substantially as described with regard to for example . In step a service request in AP servicing devices from end point devices in the private AP network. For example the communication devices and or may request services in the private AP networks and or via the AP servicing devices and or . In step a determination whether the requested private AP service can be provided is performed. For example the AP servicing devices and or are operable to determine whether the services requested by one or more communication devices are available. The determination is based for example on network access availability competing requests among the communication devices and or users of the AP servicing devices and or and or incentives that may be available for the AP servicing devices and or via the operator support server for example. In an exemplary aspect of the invention a handshake type of negotiation may be performed between the AP servicing devices and the requesting communication devices to negotiate better incentive arrangement that is sufficient to overcome initial rejections of service. In instances where the requested private AP service is unavailable the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step a service rejection indication is communicated back to the requesting end point device.

Returning to step instances where the requested private AP service is available the exemplary steps proceed to step . In step the requested service is initiated via the private AP network. In an exemplary of the invention crediting and or billing operations may be performed to enable the AP servicing devices to receive pay and or credit and or to enable debiting accounts corresponding to the requesting end point devices substantially as described with regard to for example . Additionally crediting validation operations may be performed to ensure that AP servicing devices are only accredited for actual services provided to the requesting end point devices substantially as described with regard to for example .

Various embodiments of the invention may comprise a method and system for providing private access point services in a communication system. AP servicing devices and or are operable to establish the private AP networks and or . The AP servicing devices are operable to determine services that are available via the private AP networks and or to communication devices for example the communication devices and or when these devices are operable to become communicatively coupled to the AP servicing devices and or via wired and or wireless links. The services are based on network access data and or functionality that is available via the AP servicing devices and or . Availability of the services is advertised in the private AP networks and or via the AP servicing devices and or . The advertisement operations are performed via beacons and or utilizing personalized interfaces. The AP servicing devices and or and or the communication devices are operable to receive incentives for providing services within the private AP networks and or . The incentives comprise network accessibility data accessibility and or bandwidth availability.

The AP servicing devices and or are also operable to receive payment and or credit for providing services within the private AP networks. The operator support server is operable for example to manage user accounts and or network access provided via the private AP networks and or and or to manage crediting billing operations based on private AP servicing operations. The AP servicing devices and or are operable to manage services provided in the private AP networks and or . This management comprises for example providing access to blocking limiting and or modifying one or more of the determined services. The service management is based on a plurality of resources and or incentives associated with the AP servicing devices and or and or with one or more of the requesting communication devices. The plurality of resources relevant to the service management comprise audio processing capability video processing capability available memory available bandwidth and processing bandwidth. The resources may be available external to the AP servicing devices locally and or remotely via a plurality of the remote resource and or the remote resource . Communication among the AP servicing devices and or the communication devices is secured wherein various authentication and or validation operations are utilized to authenticate users network access and or billing crediting adjustments. The personalized interfaces used in the private AP network servicing devices and or are operable to enable secondary devices for example the secondary advertising server to advertise functionality and or content via the private AP networks.

Another embodiment of the invention may provide a machine and or computer readable storage and or medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for providing private access point services in a communication system.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments failing within the scope of the appended claims.

