---

title: Financial institution account-associated rewards program
abstract: A system and method of operating a rewards program through a financial institution for granting rewards to customers enrolled in the rewards program wherein the customer receives one or more reward credits in an account associated with the financial institution if the customer meets certain qualification criteria. The method may include determining if the account qualifies for an award credit; assigning a reward credit to the account; receiving purchase information regarding a purchase made at a merchant associated with the customer's account; identifying from the purchase information whether the purchase was made at a qualifying merchant; and applying the reward credit towards the purchase made by the customer at the qualifying merchant by applying a reward credit to the customer's account based upon the business rules applicable to the reward program. The method also determines if a reward credit has expired, in which event either the merchant or the financial institution may receive the benefit of any unused or expired reward credits depending on the particular embodiment of the reward program. The method also creates and provides notification to the customer of reward credit information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08608061&OS=08608061&RS=08608061
owner: BancVue, Ltd.
number: 08608061
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080702
---
This application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 to co pending and co assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 553 716 filed Oct. 27 2006 entitled AUTOMATED REWARD SYSTEM of which this application is a continuation in part application.

This application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 to provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 958 924 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PAYING AN ALTERNATE INTEREST ON INTEREST BEARING ACCOUNTS filed Jul. 10 2007.

The following co pending and co assigned application contains related information U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 148 111 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM OF FINANCING AND MANAGING THROUGH A FINANCIAL INSTITUTION A PLURALITY OF TRADE PAYABLES OF A BUYER by inventors James Peil et al filed Apr. 16 2008.

The present invention relates in general to reward programs to encourage customer loyalty and particularly to automated reward programs operated through a financial institution.

Rewards programs are conventionally offered by merchants to customers via coupons points programs such as frequent flyer miles and the like. Such a program may provide a customer an incentive to do repeat business with a merchant thus creating customer loyalty.

Currently merchants offer discounts such as with a coupon or electronically most often with a gift card or points card which the customer present to a merchant using a specific point of sale POS hardware and software provider that facilitates the reward program. Across multiple merchants such a discount program would require establishment of a common POS infrastructure at all merchants or running separate programs inside each POS network which is cumbersome to manage.

Some discount programs apply the discount at the time of purchase such as by using points miles or other intangible currencies to reward a customer. Such programs provide less if any incentive for a customer to return compared to a program that provides discounts or credits on future purchases in dollars that are more easily appreciated understood and used by the customer.

Available discount programs that provide cash back rewards are not specific to a merchant but rather have been specific to the type of card such as a Discover Card program. Thus there is a need for customer discount programs that provide rewards in dollars allow merchants to tailor discounts offered provide an incentive for the customer to repeat purchases and reduce capital investment on the part of the merchant.

Financial institutions are also merchants that offer reward programs to their account customers originally by the customer earning interest on an average balance during a given time period. More recent financial institution oriented reward programs have the rewards tied to either a balances kept at the financial institution b multiple accounts at the financial institution or c points earned for each credit debit card purchase or transaction amount whereby the points may be used to purchase merchandise or downloads from specific stores catalogs or websites.

For many financial institutions such as community banks and credit unions many of these reward programs are run by third party vendors whereby the financial institution contracts with the third party vendor to administer the financial institution s program. The financial institution has little if any input in neither the rewards offered nor the merchants where the rewards may be redeemed. The financial institutions do not have the flexibility of making changes additions nor even deleting merchants where rewards can be redeemed.

Thus the problems that limit the ability of many financial institutions to offer reward programs to their own customers in order to provide incentives to their customers to use more of the financial institution s services thus creating customer loyalty to the financial institution include a the inability of financial institutions to allow customer usage of earned rewards to make purchases at merchants selected by the financial institution without 1 creating a catalog or online site with selected merchandise and 2 having pre arranged costly agreements with such merchants b many large merchants do not want to deal with smaller financial institutions such as community banks and credit unions to offer rewards to their customers and members respectively c the inability of such financial institutions to have the flexibility of pre determining the rewards and the merchants within an automated rewards system d the inability of a financial institution to automatically keep the unused and expired rewards i.e. breakage rather than the merchant or the third party vendor retained by the financial institution d the costly equipment and software needed by a financial institution to operate a rewards program in house e the need to provide timely reports to the institution s customers of their reward usage and balances f the present difficulties encountered by customers in redeeming their earned rewards g the inability of a financial institution to offer a reward program based on a customer s account activity not just the numbers of debit credit card transactions and or amounts and h the inability for customers to transfer rewards to another account.

Thus there is a need for financial institutions to set up and operate reward programs for their customers that use existing POS technology for specific customer markets which grants rewards that can be redeemed at any financial institution designated merchants without costly pre arranged merchant agreements or interferences from the merchant or any other third party and where the financial institution keeps the breakage. There is also a need for reward programs where the financial institution provides its customers with timely and recurring information about their rewards account and activity provides its customers with the right and ability to transfer earned rewards to another account and makes it easy for its customers to redeem the earned rewards.

In the embodiments a system method and computer program product useful in setting up and operating through a financial institution reward programs are disclosed.

In some embodiments the invention provides for a method of operating a rewards program through a financial institution. The method includes enrolling a plurality of customers in the rewards program wherein the customer receives one or more reward credits in an account associated with the financial institution if the customer meets certain qualification criteria determining if the account qualifies for an award credit assigning a reward credit to the account if the account qualifies for an award credit receiving purchase information regarding a purchase made at a merchant wherein the payment for the purchase is associated with the customer s account identifying from the purchase information whether the purchase was made at a qualifying merchant and applying the reward credit towards the purchase made by the customer at the qualifying merchant by applying a reward credit to the customer s account based upon the business rules applicable to the reward program. The method may further include determining if a reward credit has expired. The method may also include having the financial institution receive the benefit of any unused or expired reward credits. The method may limit the application of the reward credit toward a future purchase by the customer at a qualifying merchant. The financial institution may determine whether a merchant is a qualifying merchant and may select a qualifying merchant for a rewards program without entering into an agreement with the qualifying merchant or notifying the qualifying merchant. The financial institution sets the qualification criteria for when an account is entitled to a reward credit and the qualification criteria for a reward credit may be based upon account activity. The financial institution may set the business rules applicable to the reward program for applying the reward credits.

In some embodiments the invention provides for a system for operating a rewards program through a financial institution for granting reward credits to customers. The system may include a financial institution that receives processes and stores information about its customers accounts and account activity including purchase information about purchases made at a plurality of merchants by customers who are enrolled in the rewards program through accounts associated with the financial institution a merchant where a customer enrolled in the rewards program makes a purchase wherein the payment for such purchase is associated with a customer account at the financial institution and the purchase information is received by the financial institution over a financial network and a transaction module coupled to the financial institution for managing enrollment in and transactions associated with the rewards program. The transaction module may include a memory unit operable for storing a computer program for operating the rewards program a processor coupled to said memory unit wherein said processor responsive to said rewards computer program may include circuitry for determining if a customer s account is associated with the rewards program circuitry for instructing the financial institution to credit the customer s account associated with the rewards program with one or more reward credits if the customer meets certain qualification criteria circuitry for determining if the account qualifies for an award credit circuitry for instructing the financial institution to assign a reward credit to the account if the account qualifies for an award credit circuitry for receiving purchase information regarding a purchase made at a merchant which is associated with the customer s account circuitry for identifying from the purchase information whether the purchase was made at a qualifying merchant and circuitry for instructing the financial institution to apply a reward credit towards the purchase made by the customer at the qualifying merchant based upon business rules applicable to the reward program. The financial institution may credit a reward credit or debit a reward credit to the customer s account in response to instructions from the transaction module. The processor may further include circuitry that determines if a reward credit has expired. The processor may further include circuitry that creates a virtual account for tracking on an individual account basis the reward credits associated with each account associated with the rewards program and the transaction module may further include circuitry that may debit a customer s virtual account if a reward credit is expired and credits the financial institution s virtual account for such expired credit.

The processor may further include circuitry that applies a reward credit only toward a future purchase by the customer at a qualifying merchant wherein the financial institution determines whether a merchant is a qualifying merchant. The financial institution may select a qualifying merchant for a rewards program without entering into an agreement with the qualifying merchant or notifying the qualifying merchant. The financial institution may also set the qualification criteria for when an account is entitled to a reward credit which may be based upon account activity. The financial institution may set the business rules applicable to the reward program for applying the reward credits to purchases made by the customer.

In some embodiments the invention provides for a computer program product containing program instructions for execution on a computer system in communication with a financial institution which when executed by the computer system causes the computer to perform any of the methods described above.

The principles of the present invention and their advantages are best understood by referring to the illustrative embodiments shown in

In the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to . . . . The term customer and user are used interchangeably herein and may be substituted for one another throughout. The term financial institution can be any entity that provides to a customer a means of payment for merchandise or services including but not limited to a bank a credit union a credit card company or other such entity that provides a means to make purchases. The term financial network can be any network whereby debits and credits are transferred between entities. The term account can be but is not limited to a physical account or a virtual account where credits and debits applied. Also the term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect or direct electrical or communicative connection. Thus if a first component couples to a second component that connection may be through a direct connection or through an indirect connection via other devices and connections. It is further noted that all functions described herein may be performed in either hardware or software or a combination thereof unless indicated otherwise.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention is a block diagram of a system for providing an automated reward program through a financial institution. The system includes a financial institution that maintains data on a merchant and user . In some embodiments the merchant may set the terms of a reward program for the user also referred to as a customer for purposes of the present description and the user customer makes purchases at the merchant . In other embodiments the financial institution may set the terms of a reward program for the user . Purchase information is processed and submitted to the financial institution and or the transaction module from the merchant . In one embodiment such information is submitted over a network or across a plurality of networks not shown such as via the internet.

The transaction module initially receives reward program settings from the merchant and or the financial institution as will be described in more detail hereinafter. These reward program settings may be updated from time to time. If the rewards program is being offered by the financial institution to merchants for the primary benefit of the merchants the reward program settings are primarily determined by the merchant and the merchant may pay for the reward credits. If the reward program is being offered by the financial institution for the primary benefit of the financial institution the reward program settings are determined by the financial institution and the financial institution may pay for the reward credits. The settings are not typically transmitted with each purchase. The transaction module receives purchase information from the merchant via a financial network s when a customer makes a purchase. The transaction module generally tracks and maintains transactions and data associated with the reward program for purchases that are made by customers enrolled in the reward program. For example the transaction module possibly in conjunction with the financial institution operating and maintaining the automated reward program the merchant s separate financial institution thus possibly requiring ACH instructions the merchant and an electronic funds transfer EFT provider identifies an enrolled user and enrolled merchant from purchase information when the user makes a purchase at the merchant. Additionally the transaction module confirms from the purchase information a reward program common to the user and merchant and assigns a credit to the user for future use at the merchant or based on a plurality of purchases by a plurality of users at a plurality of merchants assigns a plurality of credits to the plurality of users for future use at a plurality of merchants based on the terms of the reward program. Upon a future visit to the merchant or in some embodiments at another pre defined merchant after assignment of a credit to the customer user the assigned credit is attributed towards the future purchase at the merchant or a plurality of merchants. The assignment of credits and attribution of the credits towards future purchases may be repeated on an ongoing basis. It should be noted that rewards earned may be shared across merchants in that merchants may be linked together for the rewards program. Credits may also be credited to a customer selected account that is different from the account from which the purchase was made thereby providing the ability for customers to transfer rewards between accounts.

Suitable financial institutions include but are not limited to community banks credit unions and credit card companies. The customer buying goods and or services from merchants typically enters into an agreement with the financial institution pursuant to which it establishes a conventional checking account or other type of account from which payments to merchants may be debited. The system method and program product can be employed by financial institutions that employ core processor solutions as hereinafter described without being a part of the core processor solution.

Some large financial institutions maintain their own proprietary data processing systems that reconcile and manage accounts including providing the proper amount of interest to each customer or account holder at the financial institutions. Many community banks however do not develop their own data processing software and or operate their own data processing systems for reconciling and managing accounts for their customers including providing the proper amount of interest paid or accrued to the account. Instead such banks utilize third party core processing solutions. A core processor is a term of art in the financial services industry. The term refers to a data processing system that specializes in account transaction reconciliation including but not limited to matching debit and credit transactions from activities such as cashing and writing checks point of sale POS debits and money transfers for an account holder at a financial institution.

The third party core processors may facilitate core processing services to the financial institution by either 1 licensing the core processor software to the financial institution which operates the core processor software in house meaning the software is hosted and operated at the financial institution s own data center or 2 the core processing software is operated by the core processor in a service bureau environment meaning the software is hosted remotely from the financial institution or its data center at a managed hosting facility operated by a provider the core processor or a third party licensee that typically provides core processing services to more than one financial institution. Unless the context indicates otherwise for purposes of this application core processor core processing and other similar terms are intended to cover i inhouse operated third party core processing software ii third party service bureau core processing services and iii financial institution core processor like proprietary data processing systems located in the financial institutions data centers. A third party information provider that can read transaction information such as an internet banking solutions provider may also be involved in the process

In some embodiments the transaction module is fully and seamlessly integrated with the core processor databases and systems of the financial institution . Thus the transaction module may be a part of the financial institution core processing operations. Alternately the transaction module may be a separate computer system operated by the financial institution at its office or other location and coupled to the financial institution s core processor. The transaction module may also be a separate computer system operated by a separate party in conjunction with the financial institution wherein the third party provides application service provider ASP or service bureau services to the financial institution . Thus use of the term transaction module is for descriptive purposes only as used in the present application in order to indicate databases systems methods hardware and software necessary to carry out the present invention in addition to conventional databases systems methods hardware and software employed by a financial institution or a plurality of financial institutions.

Referring now to the drawings relating to embodiments directed at reward programs set up by the financial institution depicts an embodiment of a reward program transaction module configured as a standalone computer system which is useful in the operation of reward programs through a financial institution . The transaction module includes a memory for storing applications that are executed by a processing unit . In particular a novel reward programs application program may be stored in memory for carrying out various steps of the method of the present invention described hereinafter. Memory also stores tables or other data needed by the computer instructions of the reward programs application program in a database and stores the computations made by the program in the database . The information needed to be initially stored in the database by the application program includes bank identifying information such as name and address customer identifying information such as names addresses account names and numbers and other required setup data.

Input output devices from the transaction module or computer system transmit and receive information to and from other either local or remote computer systems needed to obtain all the additional information necessary for the application program to determine and carry out the reward programs processes.

In many embodiments a payment device or other mechanism not shown such as a debit or credit card issued by the financial institution is employed by a customer to make purchases at the merchant . Such a payment device may be used at any merchant. Data from the payment device is submitted with purchase information to the financial institution for debiting funds from the customer s account at the financial institution. The transaction module detects the purchase information and data from the payment device and if the customer and merchant are both enrolled in the reward program confirms a reward program common to the customer and merchant and assigns the appropriate credit to the customer s account at the financial institution such that the credit can be applied towards future purchases at the merchant or other pre defined merchants.

In various embodiments the financial institution offers the program to merchants other than itself and customers. The merchants and customers may enroll in the program such as for example by registering on a web site over the internet over the phone or in person at a financial institution location. The customers typically establish and or maintain a conventional checking or other type of account at the financial institution from which payments to merchants are debited. In several embodiments upon enrolling in the automated reward program a customer may automatically receive notifications of reward programs offered by merchants participating in a reward program operated through the financial institution. The program may also offer merchants the opportunity to send notices of reward programs such as for promotional purposes to enrolled customers. In some embodiments upon making a purchase upon which a credit for future purchases has been created the user may receive notifications of the credit created. Similarly in some embodiments upon making a purchase for which a previously earned credit will be applied and credited to the customer the customer may receive notice that the credit has been applied.

Merchant accounts may be set up and merchant transactions may be carried out with any number of arrangements as the financial institution and merchant agree. Depending on the merchant s credit worthiness a reserve account may be required by the financial institution in addition to an operating account in order for the merchant to participate in the automated reward program. Thus as a non limiting example a credit may be pulled from a merchant s operating account to the merchant s reserve account in order to ensure the availability of the credit amount to be attributed to a customer. In another example a merchant may be required to maintain a minimum amount such as based on credit worthiness historical data standard commercial practices and the like in the reserve and or operating account in order to participate in the automated reward program. Additionally the merchant may not be required to maintain accounts at the financial institution maintaining the automated reward program as long as ACH debit permissions are granted to the maintaining financial institution by the financial institution at which the merchant maintains an operating and or reserve account and may have the account automatically debited a set number of days prior to rewarding the credit to the customer. Alternately the maintaining financial institution may require the merchant to set up either a reserve account or a line of credit at that financial institution even though the maintaining institution may have ACH debit permissions granted to receive payments from the merchant s account at a foreign financial institution.

Additionally the transaction module will track and maintain merchant and customer transactions and data as related to the common automated reward program. Thus whether the transaction module is integrated with the financial institution or separately it may be coupled to the financial institution s databases and systems in order to carry out the automated reward program.

The merchant and customer may enroll in the automated reward program in various ways such as on a web site over the internet by a mobile device or through the financial institution s physical facilities. The enrollment may include setting up accounts for the merchant and customer if such accounts are not already established and if such an account is already established registering that account in the reward program. Additionally when the financial institution is operating the award program primarily for the merchant s benefit the automated reward program permits the merchant to set the terms of the reward program. The merchant may independently or in conjunction with the financial institution tailor the automated reward program to the merchant s needs such as by tying rewards to specific items customer enrollment date time limitations within which credits must be utilized thereby encouraging more frequent shopping categories of items varying rewards per time day hour month and so on. Each merchant may set its own account with reward terms tailored to that merchant. Thus the automated reward program permits a financial institution to provide a reward program to a plurality of merchants where each merchant is able to set its own reward program terms per the merchant s unique needs or together as one merchant. The merchant may only offer a reward program within a limited geographical area or if the merchant has multiple outlets the reward program may be offered nationwide.

By way of non limiting example consider a reward amount offered by an enrolled merchant of twenty percent 20 of total customer purchases. A customer enrolled in the automated reward program makes a one hundred dollar 100 purchase at the merchant with the payment device issued by the financial institution. The 20 reward on the 100 purchase accrues twenty dollars 20 to the customer. This occurs by the transaction module identifying the customer merchant and dollar amounts from the purchase information received by the financial institution through customary daily transaction processing. This may require the transaction model to access the database of the financial institution and or an electronic funds transfer EFT provider coupled to the financial institution. The transaction module identifies the merchant as providing a reward program identifies the customer as enrolled in the merchant s reward program identifies the terms of the reward program and applies the terms to the customer s purchase thus in this case assigning 20 as credit to the customer that can be applied towards future purchases at the merchant.

The customer may be notified such as automatically via e mail text message or any other suitable electronic mobile or other means of the 20 credit awarded to the customer because of the purchase. In some embodiments the customer may not yet be enrolled in the merchant s reward program and may receive a communication that provides notice of the availability of the credit and further explanation of the reward program if the customer will enroll.

Later the customer makes a 50 purchase at the same merchant. Assuming the customer is already enrolled in the program the 20 credit or some other amount determined by the merchant earned from the previous purchase will be applied towards the 50 purchase so that the cost of the 50 purchase after the credit is only thirty dollars 30 . The merchant may in the merchant s discretion elect to designate that the amount earned from the previous purchase to be applied toward the 50 purchase be capped at some maximum dollar amount or at some percentage of the value of the 50 purchase. In some embodiments initially upon the merchant posting the purchase information the full 50 purchase may be shown as debited from the customer s account at the financial institution. Then for example at a predetermined time each day or at the end of a cycle after a purchase is made the transaction module may apply the 20 credit to the customer s account so that the 50 debit is reduced by the credit amount. Thus for a merchant providing a plurality of rewards to a plurality of customers on the same day the financial institution and transaction module may carry out debiting and crediting of the customers accounts at the same time thus coordinating reconciliation of the merchants and customers accounts.

As before when a reward credit was assigned to the customer the customer may receive another communication indicating application of the 20 credit to the subsequent purchase to reduce the amount debited from 50 to 30. Additionally the 50 purchase may cause assignment of another reward credit to the customer from the merchant based on the 50 which at 20 is ten dollars 10 . Alternatively the merchant may set the terms of the reward program such that the reward amount for the subsequent purchase is based on the discounted amount which in this case would be the 30 thus resulting in the assignment of credit for the 50 purchase of 50 20 30 and 30 times 20 is six dollars 6 . Thus if the reward amount for the subsequent purchase is based on the discounted amount the next available amount to be credited towards the next subsequent purchase by the customer at the participating merchant is 6. Of course as previously discussed the amount could be capped either as a dollar amount or as a percentage of the 50 sale. The method including assigning credit for a purchase and attributing the credit towards a subsequent purchase may be repeated as desired by the merchant to provide rewards for customer purchases.

The merchant may further vary the terms of the reward program operated for its benefit such as by limiting the discount to only apply to the initial purchase only to purchases that exceed some minimum amount and so on. The merchant and financial institution can tailor and subsequently modify the merchant s reward program to meet the merchant s needs. In yet another variation a merchant might provide reward programs that are tailored for different types of customers as will be described in more detail hereinafter.

Table 1 and Table 2 provide a hypothetical example of a notification to a customer in accordance with embodiments of the present invention where the reward program is operated for the benefit of the merchant 

This sample notification includes information on reward credits already assigned to the customer because of purchases made in the past Table 1 and information on additional rewards available to the customer if the customer desires to shop at the listed merchants in the future Table 2 . Table 1 indicates the dollar credit amounts accumulated at the two merchants and the time limitations set by the merchants within which the credits must be realized. Table 2 indicates additional rewards available if future purchases are made at the two merchants listed in Table 1 plus two additional merchants. In these embodiments the merchants set the terms associated with the reward in this case the credit amount available to the customer and a time frame within which purchases must be made in order for the credit to be assigned.

In most embodiments the customer does not need to present a version of the above rewards to the merchant or financial institution in print as the purchases debits credits and so on all occur electronically including the customer notifications such as via e mail. So the customer is able to monitor available rewards and credits to the customer s account s without for example locating and presenting coupons or browsing catalogs.

Any number of variations of reward programs is possible with the automated reward program of the present invention. Thus the automated reward program of the present invention enables the financial institution to offer hypothetically a thousand different award programs tailored for a thousand different merchants. A customer in possession of a payment device issued by the financial institution in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may make purchases at for example one hundred different merchants that are enrolled in the automated reward program at the financial institution each merchant having its own tailored reward program set for the customer and the customer may receive one hundred different types of rewards from the one hundred different merchants. All of these benefits are available without the need for additional or different point of sale POS hardware and or software.

It is contemplated that the merchant reward enrollment and subsequent transaction information will be transmitted through an application service provider model. The financial institutions through which such rewards programs are implemented will likely be indifferent to the identity of the merchants provided the merchants are providing an acceptable level of quality of goods and services to the users. Once the merchants have been authorized to participate in the merchant reward program they would simply be connected to the reward program network through a direct or indirect electrical or communications connection. It is possible that the administrator of the network would then have the ability to view or monitor all transactions conducted through the network. The financial institution would be able to work with the administrator to recruit users from the financial institution s customer base and perhaps also recruit additional merchants.

In alternative embodiments the automated reward system of the present invention enables the financial institution to set up reward programs tailored primarily for its own benefit. In such embodiments wherein the reward program is set up to provide incentives for the customer of the financial institution to use more of the institution s services and to become a more loyal customer of the financial institution the system method and program product permits a financial institution to set up and operate reward programs for all or for certain categories of the institution s customers.

A customer having access to the wide areas communications network through a communication channel may make an online purchase of either a product or service from an online merchant connected through a communication channel to the wide area communications network . Alternately the customer may make a purchase at a merchant with a physical presence by physically visiting the merchant or through a mail order process. Customers who are enrolled in a reward program operated by the financial institution may provide payment to the merchants through a variety of payment mechanisms provided the payment mechanism is associated with the customer s account at the financial institution. Such payment mechanisms include a debit card credit card prepaid card payment via automatic debit from the customer s checking account payment via PayPal or using a mobile device and a check.

Depending on the payment mechanism used the customer s purchase information is transmitted from the merchant via the merchant s bank or various financial networks such as an EFT network or the Fedline network operated by the Federal Reserve Bank or other such ACH operator to the core processor of the customer s financial institution for payment by the financial institution from the customer s account.

The transaction module will track and maintain merchant and customer transactions and data from the core processor as related to the common automated reward program. Thus whether the transaction module is integrated with the financial institution or separately it will be coupled to the financial institution s databases and systems in order to carry out the automated reward program.

According to some embodiments the reward program application may be licensed as a program product on a computer readable media for use in a transaction module or computer system that executes the program steps of the application program to perform a method for operating a reward program through a financial institution. The program product may also contain computer readable instructions executable by the computer system to communicate instructions to other computer systems involved in the setup and operation of the reward program through a financial institution.

The financial institution may also want to set up different rewards accounts for different market segments of customers where the merchants selected by the financial institution at which the customer may redeem the awards may vary depending on the particular targeted customer segment. Unlike prior reward programs the financial institution can select the participating or qualifying merchants in each reward program without entering into an agreement with the selected merchant. In addition the financial institution can select the qualifying merchants without notifying the qualifying merchants.

For example a financial institution in a geographical area with a high percent of Generation Y customers born between 1977 and 1994 may wish to provide a reward program that is particularly attractive to Generation Y. Generation Y members are between the ages of 14 and 31 numbering over 78 million people nationwide. This generation is more than three times the size of Generation X. Approximately 94 of Generation Y owns a computer and a cell phone. 60 of Generation Y owns some type of portable music and or video device such as an iPod have up to 30 of their music collection in digital format and 49 download their music from the Internet. iTunes is the number one music retailer in the United States with stores only online where Generation Y does much of their shopping. Thus a financial institution may desire to offer a product geared toward the Generation Y market segment based on account activity by permitting the Generation Y customer to spend their earned reward at a pre defined merchant offering this product. For example the Gen Y customers can go to any pre defined music store like iTunes and purchase a download of their favorite artist. Therefore this invention provides the Generation Y customer with rewards he or she wants and provides the financial institution the means in which to provide a rewards account product to market to this segment of its customer base. To induce a potential or existing customer to enroll in a rewards account the financial institution may grant the customer an award for taking the time to enroll in the account.

In step the setup process begins. Based upon the particular market targeted by the financial institution the financial institution in step may initially make the following determinations 

In step the financial institution inputs these parameters of the reward program application into the database in the transaction module to set up the reward program. In step the financial institution offers the reward program to both existing and new customers. In step a customer enrolls in the reward program. The customer may enroll in the reward program on a web site over the internet by a mobile device or at a financial institution s physical locations. The enrollment may include setting up a financial institution reward account for the customer if such account is not already established and if such an account is already established registering that account in the reward program. In step the customer reward account is set up by inputting specific customer specific data including the account number and the type of account. A reward account may be any account prepaid card credit card or any other account device which can identify the customer and or the reward recipient and be used to make purchases. Upon setting up the account the financial institution may grant an initial opening account award credit to the customer in step .

In step depicts the beginning of the reward program system operations. Initially the customer in step purchases goods or services from a merchant who has previously been selected by the financial institution and input into the reward program database as a qualifying merchant. The customer may pay the merchant for the goods and or services using a variety of methods so long as the payment is associated with the customer s reward account at the financial institution. Such payment methods include but are not limited to payment by debit card credit card or prepaid card payment through a third party such as PayPal other mobile device or payment via an automatic debit from the customer s financial institution account.

In step the payment may be processed through the merchant s financial institution directly or indirectly via an ACH or EFT file transfer. Step depicts the file sent to the financial institution. If the payment was an ACH transfer in step the payment debit is received at the Federal Reserve Bank or other ACH operator which creates an ACH file for sending the payment through communication link shown in to the core processor of the financial institution which operates the reward program. If the payment is a POS transaction the payment debit is received by the core processor via communication link from an EFT network . In step the payment debit is processed through the core processor to debit the customer s reward account.

In step depicts the beginning of the daily process portion of the reward program operations. In step the payment debit file is received by the transaction module from the core processor of the financial institution operating the reward program. In step the payment debit file data is added to the reward program database . In step the reward program application commences the daily rewards program system processes which may include but is not limited to the following 

If the date is the end of the award program qualification processing cycle the transaction module initiates an end cycle qualifications verification as will be described in more detail later. If the date is not the end of the cycle the module proceeds to the next processing step. The transaction module then identifies any purchase made by the customer at a pre defined or qualifying merchant. The transaction module then adjusts the virtual grant ledger or virtual account created and maintained by the transaction module for each customer reward program account. The module then checks for any expired reward credits and adjust the virtual grant ledger for that amount accordingly. The module then checks the available reward credits balance posted in the virtual grant ledger. The module then calculates whether any new award credits should be granted. Such new rewards credits may include any initial grant for opening the account or any other such rewards that the financial institution may make a part of the rewards program. If in one embodiment the financial institution determines that the end of the qualification verification cycle is a daily cycle the transaction module calculates whether the customer is entitled to any end of qualification cycle grant of reward credits by having met the qualification criteria. The transaction module then makes adjustments if any reward credits are to be added to the virtual grant ledger. The transaction module then updates the online status reports that may be accessed by the financial institution the merchant the customer and or the facilitator. In step the transaction module then creates a posting file to send to the financial institution s core processor to update all accounts. In step notification may be sent to the customer of new reward credits earned reward credits used reward credit balance and any other suitable information.

The transaction module sends a file to the core processor to instruct the core processor to i credit the customer s reward account the amount paid for any purchase up to the reward credit balance prior to today s credits earned in the virtual grant ledger for the customer account and ii debit the financial institution s reward program expense account. In step the financial institution operating the reward program posts the debits and credits to the accounts pursuant to the instructions received from the transaction module.

In step depicts the beginning of the end of qualification cycle process portion of the reward program operations. In step the payment debit file is received by the transaction module from the core processor of the financial institution operating the reward program as previously described in connection with the daily process. In step the payment debit file data is added to the reward program database . In step the reward program application commences the rewards program system processes previously described in connection with the daily process portion of the reward program operations except as described hereinafter. When the date is the end of the qualification cycle the transaction module determines if the customer has met the financial institution s qualification criteria for an end of cycle award of reward credits. Such qualification criteria may include meeting certain account activity requirements. Such account activity requirements may include the following 

The transaction module then repeats the processing steps done on a daily process except to the extent as described below for the end of cycle processing.

If the date is the end of the qualifications verification cycle the module calculates whether the customer is entitled to any end of qualification cycle grant of reward credits such as ATM Fee Refunds by having met the qualification criteria. When the transaction module is calculating the new reward credits to be granted the transaction module grants end of cycle reward credits if the transaction module can verify that the customer account has met all the end of cycle qualification criteria set up for that customer account. In some embodiments the reward credits can be variable and based separately such as 2.00 reward credit for qualifying activity A and 4.00 reward credit for qualifying activity A and B.

In step the transaction module then creates a posting file to send to the financial institution s core processor to update all accounts. The transaction module sends a file to the core processor to instruct the core processor to i credit the customer s reward account any amount paid for any purchase up to the reward credit balance prior to today s earned credits in the virtual grant ledger for the customer account and for any ATM Fee Refunds that the financial institution may make part of the rewards program and ii debit the financial institution s reward program expense account. In step the transaction module may send a notification to the customer to inform the customer of the status of his or her reward account such as the qualification criteria needed to be met whether the customer met the qualification activity the total number of reward credits earned during the qualification cycle the amount of reward credits used by the customer and the remaining balance of award credits available. The financial institution may program the reward program application in the transaction module such that the customer may only apply granted reward credits to future purchases.

In step financial institution operating the reward program posts the debits and credits to the customer s real reward account set up by the financial institution pursuant to the instruction file received from the transaction module .

The depicted virtual grant ledger assumes that the qualification cycle for determining if the customer is entitled to award credits is a monthly cycle. In addition the ledger assumes that the financial institution grants the customer award credits upon the customer enrolling in a reward account. The example further assumes that the transaction module is operated by a facilitator for the financial institution and the facilitator is granted a fee for providing the reward program services via an ASP model.

In step on day 1 when the customer signs up for the reward account the transaction module posts a credit of 9.95 to the customer reward account program column as an opening account grant of rewards and a corresponding debit of 9.95 to the institution s reward account column .

In step on day 30 the end of the first qualification cycle the customer qualifies for a grant of 4.95 for meeting the qualification criteria during the first qualification cycle a credit of 4.95 is posted to the customer reward account program column and a debit of 4.95 is posted to the financial institution account column .

In step the customer on day 45 makes a purchase at a pre defined or qualifying merchant in the amount of 5.95.

In step the reward program transaction module on day 60 which is the end of a monthly cycle identifies the 5.95 purchase from the qualifying merchant and creates a file credit to the customer s reward grant column and a debit to the reward program column .

In step the customer qualifies for a grant of 4.95 in reward credits on day 60 because the account qualifies for reward credits at the end of the second monthly qualification cycle 4.95 is credited to the customer reward grants column and 4.95 is debited to the financial institution expense column .

In step the remaining unused portion of the reward credit granted for opening the account equal to 4.00 expires on day 60. In one embodiment the transaction module creates a file debit of 4.00 to the customer s reward account program column a file credit of 2.00 or one half of the expired reward to the financial institution s column and a file credit of 2.00 or one half of the expired reward credit to the facilitator s account in column for payment of the facilitator fees for operating the reward program for the financial institution. Thus the financial institution receives the breakage associated with a customer s unused or expired reward credits and uses one half of them to pay the facilitator for the facilitator s reward program services. It should be noted however that the facilitator fees may be calculated and paid by other suitable methods. now shows a remaining credit balance of 9.90 to the customer s reward program column which may be applied to future purchases at any pre defined merchant.

The depicted ledger assumes that the qualification cycle for determining if the customer is entitled to an award is a monthly cycle. In addition the ledger assumes that the financial institution grants the customer award credits upon the customer enrolling in a reward account. The example further assumes that the transaction module is operated by a facilitator for the financial institution and the facilitator is granted a fee that is a percentage of the breakage for providing the financial institution the reward program services via a ASP model.

In step on day 1 when the customer signs up for the reward account no transaction is recorded in the financial institution actual customer rewards account ledger in its expense column because the rewards credit of 9.95 to the customer reward account may expire before it is used. It should be noted however that the financial institution may elect to accrue these rewards for general accepted accounting principles GAAP purposes on a for example percentage of reward credits basis in which case the transaction module will create the daily or monthly cycle posting file to credit the financial institution s rewards accrual account and debit the financial institution s rewards expense account.

In step on day 30 the end of the first qualification cycle the customer grant of 4.95 for meeting the qualification criteria for a reward grant is not posted in the financial institution s expense column because the customer reward may expire before it is used.

In step the customer on day 45 makes a purchase at a pre defined or qualifying merchant and actual reward account column is debited for the purchase.

In step the reward program transaction module on day 60 identifies the 5.95 purchase from the qualifying merchant and creates a file credit of 5.95 to the customer s reward account column and a debit to the financial institution s rewards expense account column .

In step the customer qualifies for a grant of reward credits on day 60 because it is the end of the second monthly qualification cycle however there are no postings to the ledger because the reward credits may expire.

In step the remaining unused portion of the reward credit granted for opening the account equal to 4.00 expires on day 60. The transaction module creates a file debit of 2.00 or one half of the expired reward to the bank s expense column and a file credit of 2.00 or one half of the expired reward credit to the facilitator s checking account in column for payment of the facilitator fees for operating the reward program for the financial institution.

The end of cycle balance for the customer actual reward accounts ends with a zero balance in the customer reward account a debit of 7.95 to the institution s expense account column and a 2.00 credit to the facilitator s checking account for half of the expired reward credit as part of its fees for operating the reward program for the financial institution.

In summary embodiments of the present invention permit financial institutions to use current POS technology and networks to operate the reward program. The financial institution also can establish its own rewards program to offer its customers reward credits to purchase goods or services from merchants attractive to the customer segment without having to enter into costly pre arranged agreements with the merchants set up in the reward program. The reward accountholder can be a payment cardholder deposit accountholder prepaid cardholder or have any other such account whereby the customer can make purchases.

In operating a reward program for the Generation Y example previously discussed the reward program may operate as set forth below. The Generation Y accountholder customer qualifies via account activity for a reward credit. This reward credit is posted to and tracked via a virtual grant ledger amount which can be redeemed at any merchant set up as a pre defined or qualifying merchant in the reward program for the Generation Y segment. The Generation Y customer spends their earned reward at the pre defined merchant. For example the Generation Y customers can go to a pre defined online music store like iTunes and purchase a download of their favorite artist.

The transaction module of the present invention receives the purchase information relating to the purchase over various networks identifies the qualifying purchase transaction with the qualifying merchant and credits the Generation Y customer s reward account up to the amount of their virtual grant ledger balance. At the same time this invention will debit the financial institution s expense account to balance out the transaction.

Any virtual grant not spent within a set timeframe expiration is not expensed whereby breakage may be kept by the financial institution not the merchant nor any other third party entity. The transaction module also creates a cycled notification such as an email or text message and an online report to the customer with grant reward and qualification requirement information so customer is aware of account and reward activity and status.

Therefore this example of the present invention provides the Generation Y customer of the financial institution with the type of rewards he or she wants and provides the financial institution the means in which to provide reward accounts to market to this segment of their customer base.

Rewards can be Virtual Grant Virtual Cash Points or any other such rewards that can either be redeemed for purchases or reimbursed after a purchase has been made. The qualifying merchant can be an online merchant s website catalog a merchant s physical store or any other merchant where products and or services can be purchased.

Thus the embodiments of the present invention enable financial institutions to set up and operate reward programs for their customers that a use existing POS technology b for specific customer markets which grants rewards that can be redeemed at any financial institution designated merchants without costly pre arranged merchant agreements or interferences from the merchant or any other third party and c where the financial institution keeps the breakage . The present invention also provides the financial institution reward account customers with timely and recurring information about their rewards account and activity provides its customers with the right and ability to transfer earned rewards to another account and makes it easy for its customers to redeem the earned rewards.

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments these descriptions are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications of the disclosed embodiments as well as alternative embodiments of the invention will become apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and the specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. It is therefore contemplated that the claims will cover any such modifications or embodiments that fall within the true scope of the invention.

