---

title: Location-based money transfer
abstract: The invention provides various systems and methods for performing money transfers using location information. The method includes staging, at computer system, a money transfer transaction from a sender to a receiver. The method further includes providing the receiver's mobile number to the computer system, and tracking the receiver's location using a location tracking computer system. Further, the method includes determining if the receiver is within a proximity threshold to an agent location. The agent location is configured to distribute funds from the money transfer. The method then, in response to the receiver being within the proximity threshold to the agent location, notifies the receiver of the agent location's address, and dispenses the funds from the agent location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407121&OS=08407121&RS=08407121
owner: The Western Union Company
number: 08407121
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
The present invention relates in general to money transfers and more particularly to location based money transfers.

Currently businesses use location information about their customers to advertise services. For example a retailer may track the location of a customer and when that customer is in close proximity to one of the retailer s store locations the retailer notifies the customer. Then the customer may be enticed into visiting the retailers store location. This use of location information has a number of shortcomings. For example this is a one sided system in that it passively waits for a customer to come into close proximity to the store location and then notifies the customer such that there is no interaction from the customer. In addition this type of system does not facilitate two sided transactions between individuals and or businesses. Accordingly improvements in the art are needed.

The present invention provides a method for performing money transfers using location information. The method includes staging at a computer system a money transfer transaction from a sender to a receiver. The method further includes providing the receiver s cellular telephone number to the computer system and tracking the receiver s location using a location tracking computer system. Further the method includes determining if the receiver is within a proximity threshold to an agent location. The agent location is configured to distribute funds from the money transfer. The method then in response to the receiver being within the proximity threshold to the agent location notifies the receiver of the agent location s address and dispenses the funds from the agent location.

An alternative embodiment provides a method for location based management of a mobile wallet. The method includes receiving an electronic funds transfer for a customer s mobile wallet wherein the electronic funds transfer includes a funding amount and checking the mobile wallet s balance to determine if receiving the funding amount would exceed a balance limit for the mobile wallet. The method further includes checking the mobile wallet s transfer amount limit to determine if the funding amount exceeds the transfer amount limit and in response to the funding amount either exceeding the balance limit or the transfer amount sending an electronic notice to the customer for the customer to receive the funds at a money transfer location instead of in the customer s mobile wallet.

Further the method includes in response to the customer agreeing to receive the funds at a money transfer location instead of in the customer s mobile wallet determining the customer s location using a location tracking system e.g. global positioning system GPS or cellular positioning device and based on the customer s location notifying the customer of one or more agent locations near the customer for retrieving the money transfer.

A further embodiment provides a method for implementing location based bill pay. The method includes determining that a customer has at least one bill due to a service provider and tracking the customer s location using a global positioning system GPS cellular functionality in the customer mobile device or other location tracking system. The method further includes determining from GPS cellular or other location tracking information that the customer is in proximity to a bill pay agent location notifying the customer of the at least one bill due and the location of at least one bill pay agent location and receiving payment to the service provider for the at least one bill due at the bill pay agent location.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides for a method of providing location based funds transfers. The method includes providing by a receiver via the receiver s computing device a money transfer request. The request includes an amount and a proposed sender s contact information. The method further includes tracking the proposed sender s location using the contact information and determining using a location gathering computer system that the proposed sender is in proximity to a money transfer agent location capable of processing the money transfer request. Further the method includes notifying the proposed sender of the money transfer request received from the receiver and the location of one or more money transfer agent locations.

Aspects of the present invention relate to location based money transfer and bill pay methods and systems. One particular aspect of the present invention is to utilize location information of customers actual or proposed senders and or receivers in order to facilitate money transfers and bill pay transactions. In one embodiment a customer sending or receiving a money transfer can be directed to one or more agent locations based in part on the customer s location pendency of a money transfer proximity to an agent location etc. Similarly a customer can be directed to a location to pay a bill s based on the customer s location a bill pay location etc. Accordingly the present invention reduces travel and transaction time reduces money transfer payout delay and so forth. In the present invention a customer s location can be the customer s actual or most recently known location at any given point in time or may be an estimate of the customer s expected location which may be determined using a variety of current and or historical factors.

Turning now to a flow diagram which illustrates a method for implementing location based money transfers according to one embodiment of the present invention. At process block a money transfer or similar financial transaction may be staged or initiated between a sender and a receiver. For example the sender located in Mexico may desire to send money to the receiver a family member in Ohio. Accordingly the sender initiates a money transfer to the receiver which may include a money transfer amount contact information for the receiver e.g. name address where necessary or desirable etc. etc. A sender may be required to complete a send form which may include for example the sender s name address and telephone number as well as the receiver s name transfer amount and expected payout location. Alternatively a sender may provide his or her loyalty card loyalty number or telephone number to send money without using a form to populate the sender s information and to select a receiver from a list of recent receivers if any . The money transfer is then processed by a financial services company e.g. Western Union and after passing appropriate queues e.g. Office of Foreign Assets Control fraud interdiction etc. a Money Transfer Control Number MTCN may be generated. The funds are made available to the receiver for retrieval. The funds may be retrieved at an agent location e.g. an automated teller machine ATM a convenience store a gas station a shopping center a grocery store or other merchant or retailer a bank including for payout at the counter or directly into an account a check casher a post office a kiosk or any other authorized agent of the financial services company authorizing the transaction and until the funds are retrieved the transaction is stored within the financial services company s system.

In addition to providing the receiver s name address etc. the sender may also provide a mobile address of the receiver process block . The mobile address may be for example a cellular telephone number a global positioning system GPS location address an Internet domain associated with a mobile device an e mail address a Subscriber Identity Module SIM identifier etc. In a further embodiment the GPS device may be in a vehicle navigation system a portable navigation system and the like. The mobile address may be any address or locator which may be used to determine the receiver s location. Merely for explanation purposes assume that the mobile address is a cellular telephone number for the receiver s GPS enabled mobile device e.g. a personal digital assistant PDA a Smartphone a cellular telephone a portable computer a laptop computer etc .

At process block using the receiver s cellular telephone number or other location address the receiver s location may be tracked. For example the receiver s cellular signal may be used to triangulate the receiver s location using cellular service towers. Alternatively the receiver s GPS device within the cellular device may be used to determine the receiver s location using GPS satellite tracking. Similarly a mesh network may be used to determine the receiver s location. Accordingly based on the information received either from the cellular triangulation or GPS location information the receiver s current location may be tracked identified.

In one embodiment a determination may be made regarding the receiver s proximity to an agent location that would be able to dispense the funds associated with the money transfer initiated by the sender. At decision block a determination is made whether the receiver is in close proximity to an agent location s . In one embodiment the closeness of the proximity may be determined based on a distance threshold value. For example a receiver may be considered close to an agent location if the receiver is within five miles of the agent location i.e. a five mile threshold . Alternatively a time threshold may be used. For example the receiver may be close to an agent location if based on one or more of traffic road conditions weather condition etc. the agent location may be reached within ten minutes. Alternatively no threshold value may be used and the receiver may simply be notified of all agent locations available within a certain mileage radius e.g. fifty mile radius one hundred mile radius etc. .

Once it is determined that the receiver s location is in close proximity to an agent location s the receiver may then be notified of his or her proximity to the agent location s and provided with location information for one or more agent locations. Such a notification may be delivered using short message service SMS texts email voicemail instant messaging a telephone call etc. Furthermore the location information may include the agent location s address telephone number hours of operation services provided etc. as well as detailed directions to the agent location. The directions may be based on the current location of the receiver or may be generic directions e.g. directions from major highways directions coming from the north south etc. .

In a further embodiment the notification may include a barcode or certified image or the like which may be displayed on the mobile device s display screen. The barcode may be used at the agent location to retrieve the funds. For example the barcode may be scanned at the agent location and based on the authenticity of the barcode the funds may be distributed to the receiver. Furthermore the mobile device may include various biometric security devices e.g. a voice recognition device a fingerprint scanner a retinal scanner etc. . Thus in order to provide secure retrieval of the funds security safeguards may be used. In addition the transmission of the notification may be secured using encryption password protection or the like.

At process block using the agent location information the receiver can then retrieve the funds from the money transfer at the nearest or desired agent location. The receiver may be required to one or more of the following complete a receive form which may include for example receiver s name telephone number address and an indication of from where the money was sent present personal identification an account or transaction number e.g. MTCN a personal identification number PIN biometric information barcode etc. The receiver may also provide loyalty and or rewards program identification or information during the transaction.

Such a location based distribution mechanism facilitates in the reduction of transfer errors. For example if a receiver has a similar or the same name as another receiver the funds may be erroneously transferred to the wrong person. In some instances the longer the pending transaction is stored within the financial services company s system the more concerned some customers may be that the transaction will be lost or improperly paid. Thus by informing receivers of the one or more nearby locations to retrieve their funds the funds will be in the system for less time. Furthermore since the money transfer is completed in connection with the receiver s location it is more likely that the correct receiver has been identified.

Referring now to a flow diagram which illustrates a method for implementing location based money transfers according to an alternative embodiment of the present invention. At process block a potential receiver may provide a money transfer request. The request may include a request amount as well as a proposed sender s contact information. In other words a customer e.g. a college student in New York sends a request to her parents e.g. a proposed sender in California asking for money to be transferred.

Accordingly in order to facilitate the money transfer the proposed sender s location may be tracked using the contact information e.g. the proposed sender s cellular telephone number . Similar to the process described above in a determination of the proposed sender s proximity to an agent location is made decision block . Then at process block once the proposed sender is in close proximity to an agent location s a notification of the money transfer request from the receiver may be transmitted to the proposed sender.

In addition at process block the proposed sender may also be notified of the agent location s proximate to the proposed sender s location. Furthermore an authorization request may be transmitted to the proposed sender requesting authorization of the money transfer requested by the receiver process block . At decision block a determination is made whether the proposed sender has granted authorization of the requested money transfer. If the proposed sender rejects the money transfer request then the receiver may be notified process block . Conversely if the proposed sender authorizes the money transfer the money transfer could be staged. Then the sender would go to an agent location e.g. the closest identified agent location and initiate the money transfer. Further at process block the receiver may be informed of the acceptance and initiation or fulfillment of the requested money transfer. Staging and fulfillment of money transfer transactions is more fully described in Method and System for Performing Money Transfer Transactions U.S. Pat. No. 6 488 203 the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. As such the process of may then be used to facilitate retrieval of the transferred funds by the receiver.

Referring next to which illustrates a method for implementing location based bill pay according to one embodiment of the present invention. At decision block a determination may be made whether a customer has any bills due. For example the customer may enroll in a bill pay program with the financial services provider in which the customer s bills are received and processed through the financial services provider s bill pay system. Bill pay systems are more fully described in Bill Payment Aggregation Service U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 863 906 the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Accordingly each bill s due date and amount owed is known by the bill pay system. Hence if no bills are currently due for the customer method continues to make the determination at decision block until a bill comes due.

Thus once it is determined that the customer has a bill or bills due the customer s location may then be tracked process block . The tracking may be similar to the tracking described above in . Once the customer s location is tracked it is determined whether the customer is in close proximity to a bill pay location s decision block . If the customer is not in close proximity i.e. the customer s proximity to the bill pay location is not within a threshold distance then the customer s location may continue to be tracked process block until it is determined that the customer is in close proximity to a bill pay location s . Alternatively the customer may be notified of one or more agent locations that are relatively closest even if they are not in close proximity.

If it is determined that the customer is in close proximity to a bill pay location s then at process block the customer may be notified of the bill s owed the amount of the bill s and the location of the bill pay location. Accordingly the customer may simply go to an identified bill pay location and pay the outstanding bill. Alternatively method may be used by creditors such that as a debtor is determined to be in close proximity to a location which the debtor may pay the creditor the creditor can notify and or contact the debtor and direct the debtor the payment location. A bill pay location or payment location may be an agent location. Furthermore the bill or bills owed may be to for example a utility company a department store a car dealership etc. and the bill pay location may be located at one of these types of storefronts.

Turning now to which illustrates a method for implementing location based money transfers in connection with a mobile wallet according to another embodiment of the present invention. At process block a funds transfer to a mobile wallet may be held received intercepted before being delivered. At decision block a determination is made of the available balance for the mobile wallet. Some mobile wallets have a balance limit e.g. 500 dollars 100 dollars etc. and deposits made that would exceed the mobile wallet s balance may be denied.

If it is determined that there is sufficient balance available in the mobile wallet then at decision block a determination is made whether the funds transfer amount exceeds the mobile wallet s transfer amount limit. For example in addition to a balance limit a mobile wallet may also have a single transfer amount limit e.g. 1000 dollars 5000 dollars etc. . If it is determined that the funds transfer amount does not exceed the transfer amount limit then at decision block it is determined whether the receiver or owner of the mobile wallet has elected to receive the funds at an agent location instead of having the funds deposited into the mobile wallet. The receiver may have the option of electing to receive the funds at an agent location instead of having the funds deposited into the mobile wallet on a transfer by transfer basis or the receiver may have the option of providing standing orders relating to receipt of funds at an agent location instead of having the funds deposited into the mobile wallet. For example a receiver may elect to receive at an agent location all funds sent to his or her mobile wallet. Alternatively a receiver may opt to set thresholds that will be applied to funds sent to his or her mobile wallet e.g. transfers of 100 or less will be received into the mobile wallet but all others will be received at an agent location . Similarly a receiver may opt to have transfers from one sender received into a mobile wallet while transfers from another sender will be received at an agent location. Further a receiver may opt to have transfers where an exchange of currencies occurs made available for receipt at an agent location while transfers with no foreign exchange are received into the mobile wallet or vice versa. In one embodiment the mobile wallet may charge a transaction fee for receiving the transfer while the financial services company would charge a reduced fee or no fee if the owner of the mobile wallet elects to receive the funds at an agent location.

Hence if the owner of the mobile wallet does not elect to retrieve the funds at an agent location then at process block the funds are deposited into the mobile wallet. Alternatively if the balance limit of the mobile wallet would be exceeded by the funds transfer the funds transfer amount exceeds the transfer limit of the mobile wallet or the owner of the mobile wallet elects to receive the funds at an agent location then at process block the owner of the mobile wallet s location may be determined. The mobile wallet may be associated with a mobile device or an associated identifier e.g. cellular telephone number and based on the cellular device s location the owner s location may be determined. Accordingly any location determination process described herein may be used.

Therefore once the location of the mobile wallet owner is determined the owner may be notified of one or more location s where the mobile wallet owner may retrieve the funds process block . In addition if the mobile wallet owner decides to have the funds transferred into the mobile wallet the owner s location may still be determined and the owner notified of nearby agent location s that can be used to retrieve all or part the funds from the mobile wallet. The mobile device may also later be used to query whether there are nearby agent location s that can be used to retrieve all or part the funds whether obtained by a transfer load credit or otherwise from the mobile wallet. Queries can be made by text message e mail standard web pages e.g. HTML XML etc. WAP pages e.g. WML or any other available means.

Turning next to a block diagram illustrates a system for implementing location based funds transfers according to one embodiment of the present invention. The system may include a money transfer processor a sender and a receiver . Money transfer processor may be a financial services provider configured to provide a variety of financial transaction services including money transfers. Furthermore money transfer processor may include a location tracking module used to determine a customer s location using a mobile or cellular device or the like.

In one embodiment sender may initiate a money transfer directed to receiver . The money transfer may include an amount information about receiver receiver s cellular telephone number or other address information etc. Hence methods and or may be implemented using the system of . For example money transfer processor may track the locations of sender and or receiver in order to determine one or more nearby agent locations for which sender and or receiver are able to initiate a money transfer or retrieve funds respectively.

Alternatively in the system includes a location tracking service provider . In one embodiment location tracking service provider may be configured to track the location of sender and or receiver and transmit such location information to money transfer processor . Furthermore location tracking service provider may receive agent location information which can then be used in conjunction with the locations of sender and or receiver to direct sender and or receiver to one or more agent location s .

Referring now to a block diagram which includes a business e.g. a department store a convenience store a utility company an auto dealership etc. and a debt collection e.g. a collection agency a credit card company a mortgage company etc. . Accordingly the system in may be used to implement method in in order to facilitate bill payments and or debt collection from sender . As such money transfer processor may be configured to determine outstanding bills and or debts owed by sender and sender s location in order to direct sender to locations where sender may pay bills and debts owed to business and or debt collection . Alternately in the location of sender business and debt collection may be determined independently from money transfer processor using location tracking service provider . In each of the embodiments an estimate of the customer s expected location may be determined using a variety of current and or historical factors. For example based on the customer s current location or most recently known location the systems and methods of the present invention may be used to estimate the customer s future location based on one or more data elements which may include the customer s heading and or speed traffic conditions road closures construction weather conditions time of the day day of the week and historical information about the customer such as information relating to one or more past trip of the customer agent locations previously used or visited by the customer etc. and any other factors that may be relevant to estimating a customer s future location whether or not in the near future.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements can include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration chips and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a numeric keypad a keyboard a touch screen and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer a sound card and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities mesh network etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system can also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs or Application Programming Interfaces APIs which may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention and or configure systems of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection with other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In one aspect the invention employs a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another machine readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various machine readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

A set of embodiments comprises systems for implementing location based money transfers. Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows e.g. Vista and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer cellular telephone Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant PDA capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and or navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention may operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network WAN a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols mesh network Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers or mainframe computers. Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention such as web interface . Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML Javascript WML etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server or mainframe computer and or a plurality of specialized servers or mainframe computers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as the database can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

In a further embodiment a transaction system which includes a loyalty host to administer the loyalty programs may be provided. In some instances the loyalty host may be a component of the one or more machines included in the transaction system performing other functions. Alternatively the loyalty host may be a standalone system receiving transaction details from another component of the transaction system. The loyalty host may be used to automatically enroll customers in a loyalty program. Loyalty systems and methods are more fully described in Universal Loyalty Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 190 348 filed on Aug. 12 2008 and Money Transfer Convenience Card Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 687 575 filed on Oct. 15 2003 the complete disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment a agent may offer services to perform money transfer transactions. The customer may initiate a money transfer transaction by walking into an agent location and providing details of the money transfer transaction to an agent clerk. Money transfer transaction details may include recipient information money transfer amount and or information about the customer sender such as a telephone number. The agent clerk may enter the details into a POS device. When all the details have been entered the POS device may transmit the transaction information to a transaction host for processing. Alternatively the customer may stage or initiate a money transfer transaction at a kiosk or other user input device.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

