---

title: Sharing of console and web-based games and gaming profiles
abstract: A method and system are disclosed for allowing the sharing of games and gaming profiles between console and web-based gaming platforms. The present system includes a console service through which console games may be played, and a gaming website through which web-based games may be played. Players may play games through either the console service or gaming website using a single set of identity and profile data that is stored in a central data repository. Using a single repository for profile and other data, players may log in, play games, access their profiles and friends lists, and accrue rewards and game credits, regardless of whether they are using a console or web-based game. In a further aspect of the present system, users of consoles may play the same game and same game sessions with web-based users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856268&OS=08856268&RS=08856268
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08856268
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
Gaming systems have evolved from those which provided an isolated gaming experience to networked systems providing a rich interactive experience which may be shared in real time between friends and other gamers. Gaming platforms may in general be broken down into two categories. The first makes use of a dedicated console capable of communication with a particular console service provider. An example of this is Microsoft s Xbox video game console which communicates with the Live online game service. The second category of gaming platform is web based where games stored and maintained on a host website may be accessed by a generic computing device such as a PC. An example of this category of gaming platform is MSN Games.

Traditionally an important distinction between console games and web based games was that console games and associated data were stored on a local storage device associated with the console. However with the development of console services such as Live online game service much of the storage and processing of game data has shifted upward away from the console and the distinctions between console games and web based games are diminishing.

With the blurring of the distinctions between console and web based games a significant obstacle still remains preventing cross over between these two platforms. Namely each platform still maintains its own set of profiles including user identification friends lists game rewards and other metadata associated with games played on the two platforms. A console gamer has a gamer profile that is stored locally and or at the console service. The gamer may have spent significant time building that profile. However when that same user plays a web based game he is not able to access or add to his developed profile. The user cannot access his identity or friends lists and the game rewards earned while playing the web based game will not be credited to his console game profile. The user must start a new profile for his web based gaming. The same is true in reverse for web based gamer profiles. At present there is no developed scheme for sharing profiles and or other metadata between console games and web based games. This presents a significant obstacle to integration of the two platforms. A user is more likely to stick with the platform on which he has a developed profile and is unlikely to use the other platform if to do so requires development of a second distinct profile.

This is also true of the games themselves in that games are developed for console play or web based play but not one game for both. Even where two games are essentially the same a user playing a first version of the game on a console is not able to play or share experiences with a user playing a second web based version of the game. And a user playing both versions is not able to combine game rewards accrued on the two different platforms.

Embodiments of the present system roughly described relate to methods of allowing the sharing of games and gaming profiles between console and web based gaming platforms. The present system includes a console service through which console games may be played and a gaming website through which web based games may be played. Players may play games through either the console service or gaming website using a single set of identity and profile data. In order to accomplish this the present system uses a central repository of data for example in the console service which is used for games played both through the console service and the gaming website. Using a single repository for profile and other data players may log in play games access their profiles and friends lists and accrue rewards and game credits regardless of whether they are using a console or web based game.

In a further aspect of the present system users of consoles may play the same game and same game sessions with web based users. The crossover may be seamless so that users cannot tell whether other players are playing a web based or console version of the game. In order to make this possible games may be written for interacting with a single set of APIs which may be resident in both the console service and gaming website. Alternatively or additionally games may be tailored to one of the console service or gaming website as is traditional and a second layer of handshaking APIs may be added to both the console service and gaming website. These handshaking APIs allow a game tailored for the console service APIs to be understood and played over the gaming website and visa versa.

Embodiments of the present system will now be described with reference to which in general relate to a system allowing sharing of games and gaming profiles between console and web based gaming platforms. is a block diagram of an overall system in which games and gaming profiles may be shared between console and web based gaming platforms. Multiple computing devices A B . . . N are capable of communication with each other a console service and or a gaming website . The computing devices may be a variety of different computing devices including for example a dedicated console or a generic personal computer examples of which are explained hereinafter with respect to respectively. The computing devices may be other than a console or PC and the different computing devices may be of the same type or different than each other in embodiments.

The multiple computing devices may be networked with console service and gaming website through a network . In one embodiment network comprises the Internet though other networks such as LAN or WAN are contemplated. Network may be a peer to peer network or client server network or a combination of the two. As explained in greater detail hereinafter console service may be a service provider dedicated to operation with certain types of computing devices namely those which are dedicated consoles. In one embodiment such dedicated consoles may be Microsoft s Xbox video game consoles and the console service may be Live online game service providing service to the Xbox video game consoles and other dedicated consoles. It is understood that the console service may be other than Live online game service in alternative embodiments of the present system.

The gaming website may be a website partnering or affiliated with console service so that the website and service cooperate with each other to provide shared games and gaming profiles to users of computing devices . In one embodiment gaming website may be MSN Games. It is understood that the gaming website may be other than MSN Games in alternative embodiments of the present system.

As depicted in console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display such as monitor via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet. The broadband capabilities can also be provided wirelessly through a broadband network such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. In an example illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons and two triggers . These controllers are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

In one implementation a memory unit MU may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters for use when playing on other consoles. In this implementation each controller is configured to accommodate two MUs although more or less than two MUs may also be employed.

Console is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from an optical disk media e.g. from an online source or from MU . Samples of the types of media that console is capable of playing include 

During operation console is configured to receive input from controller and display information on display . For example console can display a user interface on display to allow a user to select a game using controller and display achievement information as discussed below.

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The buses might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and portable media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types can also be applied in the alternative.

A three dimensional graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in computing device includes a peripheral device controller interface for interfacing with peripheral devices and of the console of or the keyboard and mouse of . The peripheral device controller interface includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device. A front panel I O interface supports the multiple functionalities of power button eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of computing device . Interfaces and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals that can be communicated to module .

An MU is illustrated as being connectable to MU port . More MU ports may be provided for accepting additional memory units. In the console of the controllers and or may also include MU ports for receiving memory units. Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into computing device or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller .

A system power supply module provides power to the components of computing device . A fan cools the circuitry within computing device .

An application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . When computing device is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU wherein application is one such example. Various applications can be stored on hard disk drive for execution on CPU . In embodiments where computing device is a dedicated console application may be a game to be played via the console. In this example when initiated application loads game instructions into CPU that configure the CPU to process game control data and render the game display. Where computing device is a PC accessing online games from website the game may not be stored locally on hard disk drive but rather may be stored on website and run via a web browser application on computing device .

Referring again to console service and gaming website may include server s and respectively. Server s and may each include a communication component capable of receiving information from and transmitting information to computing devices . As explained below servers and are also capable of communication with each other. Server s in gaming website may include servers for hosting online games. It is understood that upon connection of a computing device with website a software client may be downloaded from a server to the computing device so that at least a portion of an online game and associated data may be downloaded stored and run locally on the computing device . Server s of console service provide a collection of services that applications running on computing devices may invoke and utilize as explained below.

Console service includes a login service and gaming website includes a login service . Login services are used to authenticate a user on computing devices upon connection to one of console service or gaming website . In accordance with the present system as explained below both console service and gaming website use a common central repository for storing authentication information so that a user may login to console service and gaming website using the same login credentials.

For example when a user connects with website and attempts to access games and or his profile on gaming website the login service of website prompts the user for a gamer tag a unique identifier associated with the user and a password. The login service may also obtain a computing device identifier that uniquely identifies the computing device that the user is using and a network path to the website .

Upon receipt of a logon request in login service a server of website contacts console service either through a secure connection over network or via a dedicated connection indicated by arrow . Console service includes a central database including user profile records . The gamer tag and password received at website in login service are communicated to console service and are then authenticated by comparing them to records in user profile records . Assuming proper authentication the computing device identifier and the network path for the website gaming session are stored in user profile records so that messages and information may be sent to the computing device . Upon proper authentication confirmation is also sent from console service to login service on website . Thereafter the user may play the games hosted by gaming website while having access to user profile data stored in user profile on console service .

In the example described above login to gaming website may also result in the user being logged into console service . Thus while a user is logged into website data messages and other communications may be sent to the user computing device directly from console service . Alternatively while a user is logged into website data messages and other communications may be sent from console service to gaming website and then in turn to the user computing device . In embodiments upon login to gaming website user profile records may be accessed from the central database and buffered within a server in gaming website to speed communication between website and computing device relating to user profile data.

Instead of logging into website a user may choose to login to console service . In this instance as is known the login service of console service prompts the user for a gamer tag and a password. The login service may also obtain a computing device identifier that uniquely identifies the computing device that the user is using and a network path to the console service .

Upon receipt of a logon request in login service the service authenticates the gamer tag and password by comparing them to records in user profile records . User profile records may be located on the same server as user login service or may be distributed on a different server or a collection of different servers. Assuming proper authentication the user gains access to his profile stored in profile records and the computing device identifier and the network path for the user s gaming session are stored in user profile records so that messages and information may be sent to the computing device .

In the example described above login to console service may cause the service to contact gaming website and log the user into website . Thus the user may receive data messages and communications from other users who are logged onto website . In an alternative embodiment login to console service may not log the user into website .

User profile records in central database store identification and descriptive information about the user such as for example the user s on line identity where a user lives age gender etc. This information is available to a user upon login to either console service or gaming website as described above. User profile records can also include additional information about the user such as game records and friends list . Game records include information for a user identified by a gamer tag and can include statistics for a particular game rewards acquired for a particular game and or other game specific information as desired.

As discussed in the Background section one drawback to the current separation between console games and web based games is that a user s rewards on one platform do not carry over to the other platform. Console games and web based games currently have different reward systems. For example in games associated with Live online game service a user accrues achievements as he accomplishes objectives within a game while in games associated with MSN Games a user accrues badges as he accomplishes objectives within a game. Currently there is no provision for a Live service gamer to use add to or let others see his achievements in a web based gaming community and visa versa.

In embodiments of the present system both a user s achievements and badges may be stored within game records of central database which is accessible to a user whether logged into console service or gaming website . Thus a user now has a central rewards repository including both achievements and badges to which the user may add as he plays games using the console service and or the gaming website . Moreover as the two different platforms merge together game authors may start to include achievements in web based games and or badges in console games. In this case a user may add to his stored achievements upon playing both console and web based games. Alternatively or additionally a user may add to his stored badges upon playing both console and web based games.

Friends list includes an indication of friends of a user that are also connected to or otherwise have user account records stored within central database . While console and web based games previously had separate friends lists according to the present system a user may have a single friends list usable on both platforms. When using gaming website a user may elect to access add friends to or delete friends from his friends list . This access change request is communicated to console service at which point access to friends list in central database is provided and the change if any is made and stored. Friends may also be added to removed from friends list when using console service as is known.

Thus the present system brings together console and web based gaming communities. Friends list can be used to create a sense of community of users of both console service and gaming website . Users can select other gamers to be added to their friends list and view information about another gamer s friends such as game performance current online status friends list etc.

User profile records also include additional information about users which may be shared to both console service and gaming website . This additional information may include games that have been downloaded by a user and licensing packages that have been issued for those downloaded games including the permissions associated with each licensing package. Portions of a user s profile may be maintained locally on a computing device whether a console PC or other computing device . In such instance the locally stored profile may be synchronized periodically with the user profile records in database so that users of both console service and gaming website have up to date information on other users in the community.

Server s in console service also include message service which permits one computing device such as a console to send a message to another computing device such as a PC. According to the present system messages may be sent from and received by any computing device regardless of whether the computing device is connected to console service or gaming website . Messages can include text messages voice messages and specialized invite text messages. In particular as explained hereinafter the console service and or gaming website may include handshaking application programming interfaces APIs that allow users to play the same game through either the console service gaming website or both. As such a user on gaming website may use message service to send a specialized invite text message to a user on console service or visa versa. Invite text messages allow a user playing the game on one computing device to invite one or more users on another computing device to play in the same game while using network to pass gaming data between the two computing devices so that the two users are playing from the same session of the game. Friends list can also be used in conjunction with message service .

In the embodiments described above the central repository for profile and other data has been described as being resident within the console service . It is understood that in further embodiments the central repository for profile and other data used by both the console service and gaming website could be stored within a server on gaming website . In a further embodiment the central repository of for profile and other data may be stored in a database that is separate but accessible to both console service and gaming website .

At present a user playing a game via a console cannot join a user playing a web based game. Even if the game play for a console game and web based game are substantially the same there is currently significant differences in the coding of the games and the APIs used by the games that prevent crossover between the console and web based games.

Traditionally a service provider such as Live online game service distributes a game development kit GDK so that game authors can write games that are tailored to work with the Live online game service APIs. Similarly gaming websites such as MSN Games distribute a GDK so that game authors can write games that are tailored to the MSN Games APIs. In an aspect of the present system a unified set of APIs may be developed for use by both console service and gaming website . Thus the console service and gaming website may maintain their traditional APIs and game writers may tailor their game to operate with one or the other set of APIs . However in this embodiment another layer of handshaking APIs are added to both the console service and gaming website . These handshaking APIs allow a game tailored for the console service APIs to be understood and played over the gaming website and visa versa.

Having a unified set of APIs can dramatically decrease the time to market for a game. This benefits both the game developer and the platform holder. For a game developer they do not have to re learn a new set of APIs when porting a game from console to web and vice versa. The developer can focus more on the game code itself. For the platform holder web and console they can expect to get better developed games from the developers they work with in shorter time.

By having a game be available on both web and console platforms this will also lead to increased sales and makes it easier to leverage games written for one platform or the other. For example a platform holder may have a popular game for one particular platform but no easy way to port it to another. With the shared APIs and user base of the present system it makes it a much easier decision to make their games multi platform across the console and web. Moreover by making a game cross platform across console and web it will increase the user base and that in turn will also increase how long such a game remains popular. Further still a game that may have been out for a long time for one platform can be re launched on the other and it can help spur additional growth attention of both the game and the platform they are on.

The present system also opens up portfolio viability for platform holders in that the present system allows many more games to be made available across the respective platforms. This increases the number of popular games that can be added to the platform s portfolio of titles. For example a console platform holder can now look at a popular web game and it makes it much easier to request the game developer to make a console version of it and vice versa. A lot of the roadblocks that might have prevented this in the past re learning APIs low user base etc. are removed by the present system been removed.

The foregoing detailed description of the inventive system has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventive system to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The described embodiments were chosen in order to best explain the principles of the inventive system and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventive system in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the inventive system be defined by the claims appended hereto.

