---

title: Universal gripper block for a robotic arm
abstract: A robot gripper block is provided that facilitates the simultaneous attached of robot deployed tools to a plurality of distinct robot platforms having robot grippers with opposing moveable fingers. The block includes a plurality of parallel cylindrical sockets passing through the block to accept the complementary cylindrical bars of the robot deployed tools. A set pin is inserted through the block and tools to secure the tools in the block. Running along the faces of the block and arranged in pairs are channels sixed and shaped to complement the fingers of the robot grippers. Each set of channels is arranged for a given robot gripper.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08056949&OS=08056949&RS=08056949
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08056949
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Robots are used in many applications including manufacturing tactical and law enforcement. For tactical or law enforcement applications robots are used to enter hazardous areas including areas that are in close proximity to explosive devices and areas proximate to armed hostile enemies. A robot includes all of the systems necessary to perform the desired functions. For example ambulatory robots include a propulsion mechanism such as wheels or treads. Other systems include communication systems and video equipment. In order to manipulate the environment near the robot each robot typically includes at least one extensible and maneuverable arm. At then end of each arm is some type of gripping mechanism that can be used to hold and when desired to release tools or other items transported by the robot.

These gripping mechanisms are typically referred to as robot grippers. Robot grippers are a type of end of arm tooling EOAT used to move parts from one location to another. They can be driven hydraulically electrically and pneumatically. A typical arrangement for robot grippers includes two prongs or fingers that move with respect to each other to grip and to release the desired objects. The internal gripping surfaces of these objects are often flat making it difficult to grip or hold cylindrical objects or object having curved surfaces. The objects carried by robots are typically tools that include a universal type of interface or shape that is often a cylinder. To accommodate these shapes gripper adaptors or blocks have been developed that hold the tools and provide for easier gripping by the robot grippers. These adaptors however are gripper specific. Therefore adaptors are required for every type of robot or robot gripper that a given police force or tactical unit may have. This status increases cost space requirements and operational time to switch tools between robots. Therefore a robot gripper adaptor is required that can be used to mount a given set of tools on various robot gripper platforms.

The present invention is directed to a universal gripper block that is a machined block of acetal resin with multiple sets of channels sized and shaped to accommodate a plurality of distinct robot grippers from different robot platforms. In one embodiment two sets of channels are provided on the block. Each set of channels is unique to robotic arm grippers for example matching numerous robots including currently fielded EOD robots MK MOD and MK MOD . These robots are commercially available under various Tradenames. The center portion of the block includes 3 circular or cylindrical sockets to allow up to three robot deployed tools to be simultaneously employed. Therefore one gripper block can be used to hold multiple tools on multiple separate and distinct robot platforms.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a robot gripper adaptor constructed from a single unitary block constructed from acetal resin or polyoxymethlynene. This block includes a plurality of identical sockets passing through the block. Each socket has a size and a shape corresponding to a standardized bar on robot deployed tools. In one embodiment the sockets are in the form of cylindrical shafts and the corresponding standardized bar is a complementary cylindrical bar. In one embodiment the plurality of identical sockets is parallel. Although the sockets may be formed partially through the block in an exemplary embodiment each socket passes completely through the block and includes two openings on opposing faces of the block to accept the standardized bar on robot deployed tools. In an exemplary embodiment three sockets are provided in the block. The block may also include a plurality of holes in the plurality of sockets aligned to accommodate the passage of a single set pin through all of the sockets to engage the standardized bars on the robot deployed tools and to secure the tools in the sockets.

The block also includes a plurality of pairs of channels. Each channel runs along a face of the block and each pair of channels is associated with a distinct two finger robot gripper such that the channels in a given pair of channels are disposed on opposing faces of the block to accommodate opposing fingers of the associated two finger robot gripper. The channels in the given pair have a complementary shape to each opposing finger of the associated two finger robot gripper. In one embodiment the plurality of pairs of channels includes two pairs of channels. Each one of the four channels constituting the two pairs of channels occupies a separate face of the block. In one embodiment each channel runs an entire length of the face of block on which it is located. To facilitate acceptance of the associated robot gripper finger each channel can include a flared opening. In one embodiment the channels in a first pair of channels have a rectangular cross section and the channels in a second pair of channels have a width that decreases from one end of the channel to another end.

Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of a robot gripper adaptor in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The robot gripper adaptor is a universal or multi use adaptor that can be used interchangeably with a plurality of distinct robot platforms to secure one or more robot deployed tools to the robot platform. Suitable robot platforms are known and available in the art. In general these robot platforms include a propulsion mechanism at least one moveable arm and a robot gripper attached to the end of the moveable arm. The robot gripper includes at least two opposable fingers than move relative to each other between an open position and a closed position. The fingers are used to grasp and to transport items for use or deployment with the robot platform. The robot gripper adaptor is configured to be grasped and released by the opposable moveable fingers of the robot gripper and to hold an assortment of robot deployed tools such as probes. Therefore the robot deployed tools are adapted for secure gripping by robot grippers from two or more robot platforms. Suitable materials for the robot gripper adaptor include metals such as stainless steel plastics polymers ceramics and combinations thereof. In an exemplary embodiment the robot gripper adaptor is constructed from an acetal resin or polyoxymethylene which is commercially available under the tradename Delrin from E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company of Wilmington Del.

In one embodiment the robot gripper adaptor of the present invention is formed as a block of material. Although the block may be formed from a plurality of smaller parts joined together the block in an exemplary embodiment is formed machined or molded as a single unitary block of material. This construction configuration provides added strength to the block and eliminates any joints or lines that could be a point of fatigue and failure in the block. In one embodiment the block includes a plurality of materials. In an exemplary embodiment the block includes a single material i.e. acetal resin or polyoxymethylene. In one embodiment the block is generally shaped like a cube having six faces. These faces include generally a top face a bottom face opposite the top face two opposing sides faces a front face and a back face opposite the front face. These faces may be substantially flat or planar or can include shaping to remove sharp corners or eliminate excess material that contributes undesirable weight and cost to the robot gripper adaptor. As illustrated the block is generally cubed shaped with excess material removed. Other suitable three dimensional shapes for the block include but are not limited to spheres cylinders cones prisms pyramids and solid shapes having more than six faces for example tetrahedrons octahedrons and dodescadhedrons.

In an exemplary embodiment the single unitary block includes a plurality of sockets passing through the block. In an exemplary embodiment the sockets are identical in shape. In general the sockets have a size and a shape corresponding to a standardized bar on robot deployed tools. The standardized bars may be cylinders having a circular cross section or bars with a rectangular cross section or triangular cross section or any other suitable geometric shape. In an exemplary embodiment the bars are cylindrical bars and the sockets are complementary cylindrical shafts. The length and diameter of the cylindrical bars are standardized to accommodate interchangeability among the robot deployed tools. In one exemplary embodiment the block includes three sockets although the block can include more or less sockets as desired. One of the three sockets is located generally in the center of one of the faces of the block and the other two sockets are disposed on either side of the center socket for example so that the centers of the sockets fall in a line parallel to an edge of that face.

In one embodiment the sockets pass completely through the block for example from the front face to the back face and include openings on opposite sides of the block. Therefore the bar of a single robot deployed tool can be passed completely through the block or the bars of two separate robot deployed tools can be inserted into a single socket from opposite ends. In an exemplary embodiment the sockets or cylindrical shafts are parallel. Therefore the openings will appear on the same face for sockets having only one opening each or on two opposite faces for sockets passing completely through the block. In one embodiment the parallel sockets are also parallel to two opposite faces of the block and hence perpendicular to two opposing faces of the six faced block. Alternatively the parallel sockets are neither parallel nor perpendicular to any faces in the block for example passing from the front face to a side face or the top or bottom faces.

The block also includes a plurality of channels arranged in pairs. Each channel runs along a face of the block. In exemplary embodiment each channel runs an entire length of the face of the block on which it is located. Each pair of channels is associated with a distinct two finger robot gripper. Therefore the channels in a given pair of channels are disposed on opposing faces of the block to accommodate opposing fingers of the associated two finger robot gripper. In addition to the location of the channels in a given pair of channels on opposing faces of the block each channel in a given pair of channels has a complementary shape to each opposing finger of the associated two finger robot gripper. Therefore the robot gripper fingers pressure fit into the channels like fingers in a glove minimizing slipping or movement of the block relative the robot gripper. In addition each pair of opposing channels provides an accommodation for one type of two fingered robot gripper. For example a block with four pairs accommodates four different and distinct robot grippers. In one embodiment the block includes two pairs of channels . Each one of the four channels combined constituting the two pairs of channels runs along a separate face of the block. Therefore in one embodiment the pairs of channels are aligned and offset by a rotation of 90 degrees about an axis running through the center of the block for example through the center socket in the three socket embodiment.

In an exemplary embodiment the two pairs include a first pair and a second pair where the first pair which accommodates opposing fingers is perpendicular to the second pair which accommodates opposing fingers . The channels in the first pair of channels have a rectangular cross section of a constant width when viewed down the length of the channel i.e. from either the front or back face. In one embodiment the rectangular cross section is uniform along the entire length of the first channel. Alternatively as illustrated in the inner or bottom surface of each channel in the first pair of channels is slanted from the back face to the front face with respect to a line running parallel to a central axis of the block from the front face to the back face . In one embodiment this slant forms an angle of about 5 degrees with respect to the central axis . This slant compensates for either a change in the thickness of the fingers or the V shape of the robot gripper fingers due to how the fingers open by pivoting from a common point on one of the ends of the fingers.

In an exemplary embodiment both channels in the second pair of channels although generally rectangular in cross section comprise a width that decreases from one end of the channel to the other end that is from one side face to the other side face as illustrated for example in . In one embodiment this change in width represents an angle of about 5 degrees with respect to a line parallel to either the front or back face of the block. This angular decrease in width complements a robot gripper finger that tapers from its pivot point to its distal end. In addition the opposing faces of the robot gripper fingers can be bowed or bent outward. This configuration may accommodate for example the gripping of a round or cylindrical object. Therefore as illustrated in the channels in the second set of channels include a bottom or inner surface that is bowed in the middle or rises from the ends to a central peak . The particular profile of the bottom surface corresponds to the shape of the interior surfaces of the robot gripper fingers. In one embodiment the bottom surface is constructed as two slanting surfaces that rise to the center point . In one embodiment each slanting surface forms an angle of about 13 degrees with an axis running through the center of the block between the two side faces. In an exemplary embodiment each finger of the robot gripper fingers are angled to 90 degrees and taper off while approaching the end of the robot gripper finger. In another exemplary embodiment each finger of the robot gripper fingers is straight out and has a radius on the inside of each finger further this finger also has a square block at an end to serve as a gripper pad not shown .

In one embodiment each channel in the plurality of channels includes a flared opening to facilitate acceptance of the associated robot gripper finger. For example the opposing edges of the opening of each channel include a beveled slanted or chamfered surface . This surface can be formed as a cut of 45 degrees with respect to the face of the block adjacent that edge of the channel. Other shapes for the edges can also be used provided that those shapes help to guide the robot arms into engagement with the channels.

As is best illustrated in a plurality of holes are provided in the plurality of sockets and the holes are aligned to accommodate the passage of a single set pin not shown through all of the sockets. Therefore the holes align to form a shaft or passage for the set pin. When the bar of a robot deployed tool is inserted into a socket a notch or hole in the bar is aligned with the holes in the sockets so that the set pin can be inserted through the holes and the bar to engage the standardized bars on the robot deployed tool and to secure the tool in the socket.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

