---

title: Information processor and information processing system
abstract: The information processor includes a device communication performance management module. The device communication performance management module includes: a communication performance evaluation unit that measures and evaluates the communication performance with respect to a device to be used when it is used by a device-use application; a device naming rule management unit that manages a naming rule for incorporating the communication performance evaluated by the communication performance evaluation unit into the name of the device file for a device as the target of evaluation; and a device file management unit that creates a device file for a device as the target of evaluation in accordance with the naming rule based on the result of communication performance evaluation. The result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit is incorporated into the name of a device file and the evaluation result is thereby provided to a device-use application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07849132&OS=07849132&RS=07849132
owner: Hitachi, Ltd.
number: 07849132
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080613
---
The present application claims priority from Japanese patent application serial no. 2007 159306 filed on Jun. 15 2007 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The present invention relates to an information processor capable of using peripheral devices connected with the information processor through a communication channel and an information processing system constructed by connecting such information processors to each other via a communication network.

In an information processor which is also called computer or the like an operating system hereinafter referred to as OS manages data in a storage device by a file system. The file system manages data in a hierarchical structure composed of files as abstract concepts representing respective sets of data in the storage device handled by the OS directories also referred to as folders for storing pigeonholed and sorted files and higher level directories for storing pigeonholed and sorted directories. In such a file system a character string indicating the location of each file or directory in a storage device that is a character string for specifying a desired file or directory is referred to as path . The character string of a path is constructed of rows of directories and files in the hierarchical structure. The rows are coupled together by delimiters.

Such an information processor is connected with various peripheral devices for example a display a printer a scanner and various actuators. Usually these devices can work by using device by device use application for device. In this case devices used by an information processor are classified into local devices and remote devices. The local device is a device directly connected to an information processor and the remote device is a device connected to another information processor connected through a network.

That is with regard to the local devices and remote devices device files and directories are created for each device and these files and directories are managed by a file system similarly with ordinary files and directories for data. The use of each device carried out through a device use application in other words is carried out through a device file managed by a file system.

As the above mentioned use of a device by an information processor there are known examples disclosed in for example the following Patent Document 1 to Patent Document 4. As the use of a remote device there is known an example described in the following Non patent Document 1.

 Non patent Document 1 The Design and Implementation of a Generic Framework for Remote Device Control in Research Report February 2003 of Study Group for System Software and Operating System in Information Processing Society of Japan presented by Junji Sato Eiji Kawai Yutaka Nakamura Kazutoshi Fujikawa and Hideki Sunahara.

In the above mentioned use of a device in an information processor usually a device use application has restriction of some kind with respect to processing time or the like related to the utilization of the device. For this reason there is a possibility that the information processor incurs trouble if a device use application utilizes a device that does not conform to the restriction. However the fact is that measures sufficient to cope with this have not been conventionally taken.

The invention has been made with the above mentioned circumstances as a background. An object of the invention is to make it possible to implement the following with respect to an information processor so constructed that it can use a device and an information processing system constructed of such information processors to easily determine whether or not a device to be used conforms to restriction on the device use application and to effectively prevent trouble from being incurred by the use of a device.

To easily determine whether or not a device to be used conforms to restriction on the device use application that is easily make a restriction conformance determination the following measure is effective communication performance is evaluated with respect to communication with the device and communication performance information obtained as the result of the evaluation is utilized. Specifically it is made possible to implement the following the communication performance of a device to be used is evaluated and more actual communication performance information is thereby acquired and based on this communication performance information it is determined whether or not the device conforms to restriction on the device use application. This makes it possible to effectively prevent the occurrence of trouble arising from the use of a device. The facilitation of restriction conformance determinations helps software developers to enhance the efficiency of software development. More specific description will be given. It is made possible to acquire communication performance information through communication performance evaluation and make good use of it in restriction conformance determination. This makes it possible to effectively prevent the occurrence of trouble arising from the use of a device and enhance the efficiency of software development.

According to the invention the above problem associated with information processors is solved based on the above idea. More specific description will be given. An information processor is constructed to be able to use a device connected through a communication channel by a device use application. This information processor is characterized in that it includes a communication performance evaluation unit that measures and evaluates the communication performance of the device when the device is used by the device use application and the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit is provided to the device use application.

As mentioned above the use of a device is carried out through a device file created for each device. That is the use of a device by a device use application must use a device file and a directory. Therefore when providing the result of evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit to a device use application it is most suitable to utilize a device file or a directory and more specifically to incorporate communication performance in the name of a device file or a directory.

According to the invention for the foregoing reasons the above mentioned information processor includes a naming rule management unit that manages a naming rule for incorporating the communication performance evaluated by the communication performance evaluation unit into the name of the device file for the device as the target of the communication performance evaluation and a device file management unit that creates the device file for the device as the target of the communication performance evaluation with a name in accordance with the naming rule based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit.

According to the invention further the above mentioned information processor is constructed as the naming rule management unit has a naming rule table. The naming rule table is provided with a communication performance field for recording each communication performance class obtained by grading the communication performance and a communication performance symbolizing character string field for recording a character string symbolizing each communication performance class recorded in the communication performance field. The communication performance symbolizing character string field is provided in correspondence with the communication performance field. This simplifies the naming rule and makes it possible for the device file management unit to more efficiently create a device file or a directory.

Delay and bandwidth are appropriate as index of communication performance evaluated by the communication performance evaluation unit of the above mentioned information processor. It is appropriate that communication performance evaluation should be carried out with respect to a plurality of measurement results obtained by repeatedly measuring communication performance. In the above mentioned information processor of the invention therefore delay and bandwidth are evaluated as the foregoing communication performance. Further the communication performance evaluation is carried out by determining the average minimum value maximum value and standard deviation with respect to a plurality of measurement results obtained by repeatedly measuring the communication performance.

According to the invention the above information processor includes an anomaly determination unit and an anomaly remedy processing unit. The anomaly determination unit determines whether or not there is any anomaly in the communication performance in communication with the device based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit. When the anomaly determination unit determines that there is an anomaly in the communication performance the anomaly remedy processing unit carries out processing for remedying it. This makes it possible to utilize information obtained from communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit also in the determination of an anomaly in the communication performance of a device. Further it is possible to automatically take appropriate responses when the presence of an anomaly is determined and to enhance the functionality of the information processor with respect to use of device.

According to the invention the above mentioned information processor includes a communication performance management data display unit that provides system users with data related to communication performance evaluation processing by the communication performance evaluation unit by displaying it. This makes it possible for a user of the information processor to easily check the communication performance of a device that can be utilized by the information processor.

According to the invention the above mentioned problems associated with an information processing system are solved based on the foregoing idea. More specific description will be given. An information processing system is constructed of that a client information processor and a server information processor are connected with each other through a communication network and the client information processor can use a device connected to the server information processor by a device use application. The information processing system is characterized in that the client information processor includes a communication performance evaluation unit that measures and evaluates the communication performance of the device when it is utilized by the device use application and the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit can be provided to the device use application.

According to the invention the client information processor of the above mentioned information processing system includes the following for the same reason as described above with respect to the information processor a naming rule management unit that manages a naming rule for incorporating the communication performance evaluated by the communication performance evaluation unit into the name of the device file for the device as the target of the communication performance evaluation and a device file management unit that creates the device file for the device as the target of the communication performance evaluation with a name in accordance with the naming rule based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit.

According to the invention the client information processor and the server information processor of the above mentioned information processing system include time synchronization units for synchronizing respective times with each other. The time synchronization by the time synchronization units can be incorporated into the measurement of communication performance by the communication performance evaluation unit. This makes it possible to bring a client information processor and a server information processor into synchronization with each other. As a result when the communication performance of a device is evaluated it is possible to acquire the processing time at each of the client information processor network and server information processor. The functionality of the information processors with respect to device unitization can be enhanced by making good use of the resulting processing time information.

According to the invention the client information processor of the above mentioned information processing system includes an application migration unit. The application migration unit migrates an application program installed in the client information processor to the server information processor to cause the server information processor to execute the application program. This makes it possible to easily migrate an application program as required.

According to the invention the client information processor of the above mentioned information processing system includes an anomaly determination unit. The anomaly determination unit determines whether or not there is any anomaly in the communication performance in communication with the device based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit. When the anomaly determination unit determines that there is an anomaly in the communication performance the device use application corresponding to the relevant device can be migrated to the server information processor by the application migration unit. This makes it possible to take the following action when there is an anomaly in communication performance and thus restriction on the relevant application program cannot be conformed to by execution in the client information processor the restriction is conformed to by execution in the server information processor. Therefore it is possible to enhance the flexibility of measures for conforming to the restriction on an application program.

According to the invention the server information processor of the above mentioned information processing system includes a notification unit. The notification unit gives a notification that a device connected to the server information processor is available to the client information processor. Thus each information processor connected to a network can easily determine whether or not a remote device on the network is available.

According to the invention the client information processor of the above mentioned information processing system includes a communication switching unit in the following cases cases where the communication network is formed by providing a high performance network relatively high in communication performance and a low performance network relatively low in communication performance so that they can be selectively used. The communication switching unit switches networks for selectively using the high performance network or the low performance network. This makes it possible to selectively use a high performance network or a low performance network dependent on the restriction on a device use application for utilizing a device and enhance the optimized utilization of network resources. When either of a high speed network and a low speed network is determined to be anomalous or on any other like occasion the communication switching unit makes it possible to use the other network. Thus the reliability of the utilization of a device connected to a server information processor by a client information processor can be enhanced by redundancy.

According to the above mentioned invention the following can be implemented with respect to an information processor constructed to be able to use a device or an information processing system constructed of such information processors it can be easily determined whether or not a device to be used conforms to restriction on a device use application and thus trouble incurred by the use of a device can be effectively prevented.

Hereinafter description will be given to embodiments of the present invention. illustrates an example of the configuration of an information processing system to which an information processor in a first embodiment is applied. The information processing system in this example is constructed of an information processor that performs information processing a data input unit that is constructed of for example a keyboard a mouse a joystick an operator panel a touch panel various sensors and the like and is used to input data for information processing to the information processor and a plurality of devices . . . locally connected with the information processor through each communication channel . The devices include devices such as display printer and various actuators referred to as peripheral devices in relation to the information processor and devices controlled or operated by the information processor.

The information processor performs predetermined information processing on data inputted from the data input unit and uses any of devices when needing the devices in conjunction with this processing. For this purpose the information processor has respective device use applications installed in correspondence with the individual devices . . . . The processor uses a required device use application for a desired device among the device use applications .

The information processor has a device communication performance management module with respect to the use of those devices . The device communication performance management module manages the communication performance in communication with each device when the device is used. Concretely in a communication system between the information processor and each device device by device communication performance information can be acquired when the device is used on a trial basis or other like by measuring and evaluating the communication performance of the device. Then the communication performance information is provided to the device use application or a software developer in an appropriate manner. One of preferred manners for the providing communication performance information to a device use application or the like is to utilize a device file name and a directory name. That is it is a good manner that the communication performance identification related to each device is incorporated into the names of the device file corresponding to the device and the directory for storing it. To incorporate the communication performance identification into such a device file name or a directory name in this case the following measure is taken a device file or directory is created with a device file name or a directory name using a character string symbolically representing the communication performance.

The information on the communication performance of the device provided to a device use application or a software developer as mentioned above is utilized for example in determination about restriction on a device use application with respect to communication. That is the information is used in restriction conformance determination of whether or not the communication performance in communication with a device used by a device use application conforms to restriction on the device use application. This makes it possible to effectively prevent trouble from being incurred in the information processor for example by the use of a device that does not conform to restriction on a device use application. Further software developers can utilize communication performance information as mentioned above to enhance the efficiency of software development. Furthermore the communication performance information can also be applied to the effective selection of a device when there is a plurality of devices of the same sort.

The CPU is a processing unit and is connected to the bus . It transfers a required program among the various programs stored on the nonvolatile storage to the RAM and executes it. These programs include OS and application programs and the application programs include device use applications for using the devices . The RAM is a main internal memory device and functions as a temporary storage means when the CPU carries out processing. That is it functions to temporarily store program or data which is required to process at the CPU selected among the varied programs and data in the nonvolatile storage and transferred from the nonvolatile storage . The nonvolatile storage are a storage device and used to store various programs used in processing at the CPU to store the result of processing at the CPU to store information on the operational status of each device and for other like purposes. The data input control unit is connected with the bus and the data input unit and transmits data inputted from the data input unit to the information processor . More specific description will be given. When data is inputted from the data input unit the data input control unit asserts an interrupt signal indicating that for the bus and transmits the input data to the CPU . The data output control unit is connected with the bus and each device and transmits data outputted from the CPU to the individual devices . The bus connects together the CPU RAM nonvolatile storage data input control unit and data output control unit . PCI bus ISA bus PCI Express bus or the like is used for the bus .

The communication performance evaluation unit measures and evaluates the communication performance of each device in . The evaluation of communication performance is basically carried out by using a device by a device use application on a trial basis. That is the evaluation is basically acquired by using the device with the device use application on a trial basis and measuring the communication performance at that time. However the evaluation may be carried out through the routine use of the device as required. Techniques for using a device on a trial basis include initializing the device outputting test data to the device inputting test data from the device and the like. Or a special operation for testing a device may be defined.

It is desirable that the evaluation of communication performance should be carried out by statistically processing a plurality of measurement results obtained by repeatedly measuring communication performance. Specifically the evaluation of communication performance is carried out by repeatedly measuring communication performance and determining the average minimum value maximum value standard deviation or the like with respect to the plurality of measurement results of communication performance. For using a device on a trial basis the following methods can be used for this repetitive communication performance measurement measurement is repeatedly carried out at appropriate time intervals it is carried out beforehand each time a device is actually utilized and the like. Examples of communication performance indexes evaluated include delay bandwidth jitter and the like. In this embodiment communication performance evaluation is carried out by delay and bandwidth. The measurement of communication performance and communication performance evaluation based on the measurement results will be described in detail later.

The communication performance storage unit stores information related to the evaluation of communication performance by the communication performance evaluation unit .

The timer unit counts time and provides the resulting time information to the communication performance evaluation unit . In the drawing the signal path related to the timer unit is omitted.

The device naming rule management unit manages a naming rule for incorporating the communication performance evaluated by the communication performance evaluation unit into the name of the device file for the device as the target of the evaluation. That is it manages a naming rule for directory names and device file names into which communication performance is incorporated. As a naming rule for example the following method can be used communication performance is graded on the basis of how easily restriction conformance determination about the above mentioned restriction on a device use application can be carried out or on other like basis and an appropriate character string is determined for the incorporation of communication performance with respect to each communication performance class. Use of the naming rule tables described later as examples is suitable for putting such a naming rule into effect.

The device file management unit creates the device file for a device as the target of evaluation with a name in accordance with a naming rule managed by the device naming rule management unit . It creates the device file based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit . Further the device file management unit can delete an already created device file or directory with communication performance incorporated therein as required. More specific description will be given. With respect to each device that can be used by the information processor in it creates a device file or a directory with the communication performance of the device incorporated therein. At this time it creates the device file or directory based on a naming rule managed at the device naming rule management unit . Further the device file management unit deletes an already created device file or directory with communication performance incorporated therein as required. The creation of a device file or a directory by the device file management unit will be described later.

The device control unit is a device driver for devices . The device control unit provides a device use application with a function for the device use application to utilize the data output control unit when using devices . The function provided to the device use application by the device control unit is for example application programming interface or the like. The device use application is an application program for using a device and has the functions of carrying out the use of the device and acquiring required information from the device.

The drawings from to illustrate an example of a naming rule table used at the device naming rule management unit . The naming rule table includes a communication performance field and a communication performance symbolizing character string field in correspondence therewith. In the communication performance field a communication performance class obtained by appropriately grading the communication performance is recorded. In the communication performance symbolizing character string field a communication performance symbolizing character string symbolizing the communication performance class in the corresponding communication performance field is recorded. There are several possible formats for such a naming rule table. The naming rule table in is an example based on grading by a combination of communication delay and bandwidth the naming rule table in is an example of a table in which delay and bandwidth are separated from each other and the naming rule table in is an example based on relative evaluation by the type of device or by communication performance. These naming rule tables are derived from the differences with various evaluation perspectives therefore it is desirable to use them together.

Hereinafter description will be given to the creation of a device file or a directory with communication performance incorporated therein by the device file management unit . There are the following cases in the creation of a device file or a directory cited in this specification cases where a device file or a directory is newly created for a device newly connected to for example the information processor and cases where the name of an existing device file or directory is changed or a copy including a symbolic link or a shortcut is created.

When the evaluation of communication performance is carried out by the communication performance evaluation unit with respect to any of the devices in the following operation is performed a corresponding communication performance symbolizing character string is taken out of the device naming rule management unit based on the result of this evaluation. More specific description will be given. A communication performance field in which the communication performance relevant to the evaluation result is recorded is extracted from such a naming rule table as mentioned above in the device naming rule management unit . From the communication performance symbolizing character string field corresponding to this communication performance field a communication performance symbolizing character string recorded therein is taken out. Then a directory or a device file is created with a device name or a directory name using this communication performance symbolizing character string. The creation of a device file or a directory can be carried out by using a system call provided by OS or API Application Programming Interface . Examples of such system calls and APIs include the open creat and mkdir calls of POSIX and the CreateFile call of the Windows registered trademark API. illustrates examples of the names of a device file and a directory created by the device file management unit as mentioned above.

There can be a plurality of communication performance classes relevant to the result of communication performance evaluation on a device for which a device file is to be created. That is there can be a plurality of communication performance symbolizing character strings used for a device file to be created. There are several ways to cope with such a case. It is possible to extract only the communication performance symbolizing character string determined to be relevant first. It is possible to extract all of the plurality of relevant communication performance symbolizing character strings. It is possible to select and extract some from among the plurality of relevant communication performance symbolizing character strings. The selective extraction can be carried out by assigning priorities to lined communication performances to be recorded in the communication performance field on a predetermined basis and selecting and extracting character strings according to the priorities.

Incidentally there may be cases where no communication performance class corresponds to the result of communication performance evaluation on a device for which a device file is to be created. In these cases there is no communication performance symbolizing character string for use in the device file to be created. Such a case can be coped with by for example the following measures a name e.g. other case indicating that there is no relevant communication performance symbolizing character string is extracted an acknowledgement dialog is displayed to notify that there is no relevant communication performance symbolizing character string the fact that there is no relevant communication performance symbolizing character string is stored in the communication performance storage unit and a device file is not created with respect to the result of communication performance evaluation.

As mentioned above the communication performance can be evaluated from various perspectives. For this reason there can be a plurality of communication performance symbolizing character strings relevant to the result of communication performance evaluation on one device as mentioned above. In such a case a plurality of device files can be created for one device with different device file names respectively using the plurality of communication performance symbolizing character strings. To cope with such a case it is appropriate to create a plurality of device files using a symbolic link as illustrated in . Use of a symbolic link makes it possible for a device use application to operate a device through different paths even when in reality they are one and the same file.

Hereinafter description will be given to a second embodiment. This embodiment is characterized in that the information processor in includes a device communication performance management module constructed as illustrated in . The device communication performance management module includes the same units as the device communication performance management module in does. That is it includes the communication performance evaluation unit communication performance storage unit timer unit device naming rule management unit device file management unit and device control unit . In addition the device communication performance management module in this embodiment includes an anomaly determination unit and an anomaly remedy processing unit . In the signal paths related to the timer unit anomaly determination unit and anomaly remedy processing unit are omitted.

The anomaly determination unit determines any anomaly in the communication performance in communication with a device in accordance with a predetermined anomaly determination rule. This determination is carried out based on the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit . There are the following types of anomaly determination carried out by the anomaly determination unit anomaly determination carried out about the result of communication performance evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit and anomaly determination carried out about a device file created by the device file management unit . However these types of anomaly determination are basically identical in that they are carried out based on the result of communication performance evaluation.

The anomaly determination about the result of communication performance evaluation can be carried out with respect to for example the bandwidth of a communication channel to a device in . More specific description will be given on the assumption that the communication performance evaluation unit measures the bandwidth with respect to for example the device . The result of this bandwidth measurement is compared with the original bandwidth of the communication channel to the device . When the result of the bandwidth measurement is smaller than the original bandwidth of the communication channel by an amount equivalent to a value equal to or larger than a predetermined threshold value the presence of an anomaly is determined. The anomaly determination about the result of communication performance evaluation can be carried out as the comparison of the evaluation results of communication performance evaluation repeatedly carried out. Specifically the following operation is performed when the communication performance evaluation unit repeatedly carries out communication performance evaluation the measurement result delay or bandwidth of new evaluation processing is compared with the result the average value of delay or bandwidth of evaluation in the past and when the new measurement result is inferior to the past evaluation result by an amount equivalent to a value equal to or larger than a predetermined threshold value the presence of an anomaly is determined.

In anomaly determination about a device file the following procedure is taken when a device is used in accordance with a device file created by the device file management unit and there is no response from the device the presence of an anomaly is determined. As a result this anomaly determination about a device file determines the appropriateness of the communication performance incorporated into the device file created by the device file management unit at the present time. This appropriateness is also the appropriateness of the device file created by the device file management unit at the present time. 

When the anomaly determination unit determines that there is an anomaly the anomaly remedy processing unit carries out processing for remedying the anomaly. The anomaly remedy processing unit can carry out for example any of the following processing to remedy an anomaly it deletes a device file and a directory created by the device file management unit based on the result of evaluation by the communication performance evaluation unit it displays an acknowledgement dialog asking the user whether to continue the execution of the device use application and it stops the execution of the device use application.

According to the second embodiment mentioned above it is possible to use communication performance information managed by the device communication performance management module also in communication performance anomaly determination with respect to devices. As a result the functionality of the device communication performance management module can be enhanced.

Hereinafter description will be given to a third embodiment. illustrates the configuration of an information processing system in the third embodiment. The information processing system in this embodiment is constructed of that a client information processor and a server information processor are connected with each other through a network communication network and the client information processor can use a device connected to the server information processor through a communication channel . The client information processor includes a device communication performance management module that functions to manage communication performance like that in the first embodiment. In one client information processor and one server information processor are depicted. This is for the simplification of the drawing. In reality a plurality of information processors are connected to the network and each of these information processors functions as a client information processor in some cases and as a server information processor in other cases.

In the information processing system in this embodiment the use of a device by the client information processor is carried out through the network . For this reason the device is a remote device for the client information processor . The device is for example an actuator. When the device is such equipment as an actuator it is usually used by operating or controlling the device .

In the client information processor as mentioned above the device use application uses the device connected to the server information processor through the network . For this purpose the device control unit provides the device use application with functions for the use of the device through the network . Further it provides the server information processor with a request to use the device from the device use application .

When the client information processor uses the device as mentioned above the device communication performance management module performs the following operation it includes the device in the targets of communication performance evaluation and creates a device file or a directory with the communication performance of the device incorporated based on the result of communication performance evaluation as mentioned above.

The network constitutes a great role of communication carried out when the client information processor uses the device . For this reason the following is one of examples desirable in the measurement of communication performance carried out by the communication performance evaluation unit for the evaluation of the communication performance of the device use of the ping Packet InterNet Groper command using ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol . It is another desirable example to use a dedicated application program designed for the measurement of the performance of communication through a network.

A common construction of the server information processor is the same as that of the client information processor and it includes a device utilization management module constructed as illustrated in . The device utilization management module functions to accept the use of the device by the client information processor and includes a device control unit and a device access management unit .

The device control unit is the same as that in . The device access management unit honors a request to use the device from the client information processor and executes the utilization of the device operates or controls the device . Further the device access management unit sends the result of the use of the device back to the device use application of the client information processor .

According to the third embodiment mentioned above it is possible to provide communication performance information on the device as a remote device to a device use application or a software developer by the device communication performance management module . Therefore the device use application and the software developer can easily make determination about restriction on the device use application also with respect to a remote device.

Hereinafter description will be given to a fourth embodiment. This embodiment is characterized in that the information processing system is constructed like that in the client information processor in includes a device communication performance management module constructed as illustrated in and the server information processor in includes a device utilization management module constructed as illustrated in .

The device communication performance management module includes the same units as the device communication performance management module in does. That is it includes the communication performance evaluation unit communication performance storage unit timer unit device naming rule management unit device file management unit and device control unit . In addition it includes a time synchronization unit .

In correspondence with this device communication performance management module the device utilization management module includes the same device control unit and device access management unit as those of the device utilization management module in . In addition it includes a timer unit and a time synchronization unit .

The time synchronization unit synchronizes the time on the client information processor and the time on the server information processor with each other. Then it incorporates the result of this synchronization into time made by the timer unit . The time synchronization unit that functions as mentioned above can be constructed using for example IEEE1588 NTP Network Time Protocol or GPS.

When it is made possible by the time synchronization unit to synchronize the client information processor and the server information processor with each other as mentioned above the following takes place the test IP packet used when the communication performance evaluation unit of the device communication performance management module measures the communication performance with respect to the device by the ping command or a special packet formatted as illustrated in as an example. Similarly with the IP packet Pa in the IP packet Pb in this example contains the data blocks of IP header ID Number and Padding. In addition it contains the data blocks of Start Time and End Time. The Start Time data block indicates the time when the processing of the test IP packet transmitted by the client information processor for communication performance measurement is started at the server information processor . It is acquired from the timer unit by the device access management unit . The End Time data block indicates the time when the processing of the test IP packet is ended at the server information processor . It is similarly acquired from the timer unit by the device access management unit .

Information about the start time and the end time of the processing of a test IP packet at the server information processor is acquired as mentioned above. Meanwhile the start time and the end time of the processing of a test IP packet at the client information processor can also be acquired at the client information processor . This is done by for example the communication performance evaluation unit using the timer unit into which the result of synchronization by the time synchronization unit is incorporated. With respect to test IP packets therefore it is possible to obtain the processing time at each of the client information processor network and server information processor and make good utilization of these pieces of processing time data.

One of examples of the utilization of the above mentioned processing time data is the processing of determining the ratio of the processing time Ts at the server information processor to the processing time Tc at the client information processor . This is processing time ratio determination processing in which the ratio of Ts to Tc is determined and it is determined whether or not the result of this determination exceeds a predetermined threshold value. When it is determined in this processing time ratio determination processing that Ts Tc exceeds the threshold value the result of the determination is displayed in an acknowledgement dialog to notify the user of the information processing system of it. Or the result of the determination is stored in the communication performance storage unit . Another example of the utilization is the processing in which the following operation is performed when the result of communication performance measurement carried out at the communication performance evaluation unit is lower than predetermined reference communication performance Tc and Ts are stored in the communication performance storage unit .

According to the fourth embodiment as mentioned above the client information processor and the server information processor can be synchronized with each other in the information processing system in . This makes it possible to implement the following in evaluation of the communication performance of the device the processing time at each of the client information processor network and server information processor can be acquired with respect to the test IP packet used in the evaluation. The utilization of these pieces of processing time data makes it possible to carry out processing time ratio determination processing and the like. According to the fourth embodiment mentioned above the following can be implemented when there is a bottleneck in a series of processing in the utilization of the device by the client information processor through the network it can be identified whether the bottleneck exists in the network or exists in the server information processor . The identification of the location of a bottleneck facilitates action for removing the bottleneck. That is it makes it possible for the developer or the user of the system to enhance the performance of the network or the server information processor with the bottleneck or take other like countermeasures. As a result it is made easier to conform to restriction on the device use application with respect to the utilization of the device .

Hereinafter description will be given to a fifth embodiment. This embodiment is characterized in that the information processing system is constructed as illustrated in the client information processor in includes a device communication performance management module constructed as illustrated in and the server information processor in includes a device utilization management module constructed as illustrated in .

The device communication performance management module includes the same units as the device communication performance management module in does. That is it includes the communication performance evaluation unit communication performance storage unit timer unit device naming rule management unit device file management unit and device control unit . In addition it includes the same anomaly determination unit and anomaly remedy processing unit as in and further includes an application migration unit .

The device utilization management module includes the same device control unit and device access management unit as those of the device utilization management module in and in addition includes an application migration unit .

In the client information processor the application migration unit functions as follows to cause the server information processor to execute an application program installed in the client information processor it functions to migrate the application program from the client information processor to the server information processor . In the server information processor it functions to receive the application program migrated from the client information processor and execute it at the server information processor . For this application program migration function carried out at the application migration units for example NFS Network File System or FTP File Transfer Protocol .

In this embodiment as mentioned above an application program can be migrated by the application migration units . In this embodiment the anomaly remedy processing unit can carry out the following processing when the anomaly determination unit determines that there is an anomaly in communication performance with respect to for example the device it can migrate the device use application for the device from the client information processor to the server information processor by the application migration unit and causes the program to be executed there.

According to the fifth embodiment mentioned above the following can be implemented when the restriction on a relevant application program cannot be conformed to by execution at the client information processor the restriction can be conformed to by execution at the server information processor . Therefore flexibility can be enhanced with respect to measures for conforming to the restriction on an application program.

Hereinafter description will be given to a sixth embodiment. This embodiment is characterized in that the information processing system is constructed as that in and the server information processor in includes a device use management module constructed as illustrated in .

The device use management module includes the same device control unit and device access management unit as those of the device use management module in and in addition includes an automatic notification unit .

The automatic notification unit is constructed using for example UPnP or Jini. It functions to notify the client information processor that the device connected to the server information processor is available to the client information processor . The function of the automatic notification unit can be generalized as follows. That is an information processor connected to a device which is connected to one of a plurality of information processors connected together through a network notifies another information processor that the device is available to the other information processor.

According to the sixth embodiment mentioned above each information processor connected to a network can easily determine the availability of a remote device on the network.

Hereinafter description will be given to a seventh embodiment and an eighth embodiment. These embodiments are modifications to the information processing system in . In an information processing system in these embodiments a network is formed by providing a high performance network relatively high in communication performance and a low performance network relatively low in communication performance so that they can be selectively used. In this information processing system the client information processor includes a communication switching unit for switching networks for selectively using the high performance network or the low performance network.

First description will be given to the seventh embodiment. illustrates the configuration of an information processing system in the seventh embodiment. The information processing system in this embodiment is basically identical with the information processing system in . It is different in that a high speed network high performance network and a low speed network low performance network are placed so that they can be selectively used to connect the client information processor and the server information processor .

The high speed network is low in delay than the low speed network and higher in communication performance in that. When the client information processor utilizes the device connected to the server information processor the high speed network or the low speed network is selectively used. This selection is made dependent on the restriction on the device use application with respect to the utilization of the device .

The communication switching unit switches networks when the high speed network or the low speed network is selectively used as mentioned above.

When the client information processor utilizes the device the selection of the high speed network or the low speed network is made as mentioned above. That is the selection is made dependent on the restriction on the device use application with respect to the utilization of the device . To make it possible to effectively select and use a network at this time communication performance information is required with respect both to the high speed network and to the low speed network . That is communication performance information is required with respect to both the networks to be selectively used. For this purpose the following measure is taken the device file management unit evaluates the communication performance with respect to the device both when the high speed network is used and when the low speed network is used and it creates a device file or a directory based on the result of each evaluation with respect to each evaluation result.

According to the seventh embodiment mentioned above the following can be implemented when the client information processor utilizes the device connected to the server information processor the high speed network or the low speed network can be more effectively selected and used and thus the optimization of the utilization of network resources can be enhanced. According to the seventh embodiment mentioned above further the following can be implemented when trouble occurs in either the high speed network or the low speed network the other sound network can be used through the communication switching unit . As a result it is possible to enhance the reliability by redundancy with respect to the utilization of the device connected to the server information processor by the client information processor .

Next description will be given to the eighth embodiment. illustrates the configuration of an information processing system in the eighth embodiment. The information processing system in this embodiment is basically identical with the information processing system in . It is different in that a broadband network and a narrowband network can be selectively used in place of the high speed network and the low speed network in and they are involved in the connection between the client information processor and the server information processor .

The broadband network is wider in bandwidth than the narrowband network and higher in communication performance in that. Except for this point the information processing system in this embodiment is identical with that in the seventh embodiment. Therefore the foregoing description applies and the concrete description of the information processing system in this embodiment will be omitted.

Hereafter description will be given to a ninth embodiment. This embodiment is characterized in that the information processing system is constructed as that in and the client information processor in includes a device communication performance management module constructed as illustrated in .

The device communication performance management module includes the same units as those of the device communication performance management module in . That is it includes the communication performance evaluation unit communication performance storage unit timer unit device naming rule management unit device file management unit and device control unit . In addition it includes a communication performance management data display unit .

The communication performance management data display unit is constructed of for example a graphic application. It provides a user of the information processing system with varied data pertaining to device file management carried out by the device communication performance management module that is varied data pertaining to communication performance evaluation processing carried out by the communication performance evaluation unit . This is done by graphically indicating the data on a display or the like. The indication of device file management data on a display or the like by the communication performance management data display unit is carried out using for example the tabulated list of communication performance management data illustrated in .

According to the ninth embodiment mentioned above a user of the information processing system can easily check the communication performance of a device available on the information processing system.

Up to this point description has been given to embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are just representative examples and the invention can be embodied in various modes without departing from its subject matter.

