---

title: Incorporating player-generated audio in an electronic game
abstract: Incorporating player-generated audio in an electronic game is disclosed. Incorporation may include receiving an audio clip from an electronic game player, applying a modification to the audio clip to generate a chant, associating the chant to the execution of an event in the electronic game, retrieving the chant when the event in the electronic game is executed, and initiating the play of the chant upon execution of the event in the electronic game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09352219&OS=09352219&RS=09352219
owner: Sony Interactive Entertainment America LLC
number: 09352219
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081107
---
The present invention generally relates to electronic gaming and user generated content. More specifically the present invention concerns the use and incorporation of user generated audio content in an electronic gaming environment.

Present networked video game play offers the ability to engage in conversation with other players. Such conversation is usually achieved through the likes of a USB or Bluetooth microphone headset. The various participants in a network game will carry on conversations related to events in the game including smack talk or other taunting of game players. This audio exchange is heard by all other members engaged in a particular game play session.

In an instance of such smack talk one player might chastise the game play skills or lack thereof of another game player in response to a particularly humbling moment in game play. For example one player might kill another game player in a military role playing game and victoriously proclaim their kill shot. Similarly one player might effectuate a vicious tackle on another player in a football game thereby resulting in a fumble. The tacking player would then announce their game play prowess to the detriment of the tackled player that also committed an embarrassing and possibly costly turn over.

Notwithstanding the ability of game players to introduce their personal commentary into networked game play and for that commentary to be heard by all other game players in a particular game session the related art is lacking in many respects. First a user must repeatedly interject their commentary by speaking into the microphone headset or handheld . In a second such example a user must make the commentary in the context of continued game play. Repeatedly introducing commentary may be complicated by a particularly difficult game situation or environment thereby making the addition of audible commentary distracting and perhaps detrimental to continued advancement in the game.

The related art is also deficient in that a user may not have access to the necessary equipment to introduce commentary during game play. For example a user may not have a headset to allow for simultaneous game play and provisioning of commentary. A still further example instance of lacking in the art is where a user s hardware platform lacks the necessary input ports to allow for introduction of both a control device and headset notwithstanding the fact of whether the headset was available.

The art exhibits yet another lacking in that all user commentary comes directly from the user as a single voice. In certain game environments such as a sporting game set in a large arena smack talk or related user commentary may sound out of place or small in the context of the overall game environment. Thus a need clearly exists for improved methodologies for introducing player generated audio into an electronic game.

Exemplary methods and computer readable storage media for incorporating player generated audio in an electronic game are disclosed. Such methods may include receiving an audio clip from an electronic game player applying a modification to the audio clip to generate a chant associating the chant to the execution of an event in the electronic game retrieving the chant when the event in the electronic game is executed and initiating the play of the chant upon execution of the event in the electronic game. In some embodiments the methods may be executable by software.

Exemplary apparatus for executing the above methods are disclosed. Such apparatus may include an interface configured to receive an audio clip from an electronic game player and a processor configured to execute software to apply a modification to the audio clip to generate a chant associate the chant to the execution of an event in the electronic game retrieve the chant when the event in the electronic game is executed and initiate the play of the chant on an audio player upon execution of the event in the electronic game.

The client may include a game console such as a PlayStation 3 a laptop computing device a portable game device such as the PlayStation Portable a desktop computing device a cellular telephone or any other device capable of executing the electronic game and connecting to the network or alternatively an ad hoc network. The client may be identified by an identification number such as a client ID or an address mechanism such as an IP address. An electronic game player using client may sign on to a network with a user name and or password which may be temporarily or permanently associated with the client .

Server may include the electronic game clients may access the electronic game on the server via the network . The electronic game on the server may be an entire game a portion of the game or data related to the game as server may also be a node allowing for the pass though observation and or collection of data related to the game as the game is played by users in the game community. The electronic game may be similarly organized at various clients e.g. portions of the game or game data related to the game . Electronic game may also be provided through for example a third party content library server. The library server may or may not be a participating member of the architecture of .

Reference to a client and a server in the context of and the remainder of the present disclosure is for the convenience of understanding various embodiments of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in the context of a peer to peer network a client server network or within a peer group e.g. a specified group of peers . In some instances a client may function as a server and vice versa depending on the timing and the nature of a data exchange. For example various clients in a peer to peer network may each include a portion of an electronic game or data related to that game and may send and receive the same. As such any reference to a client or a server is meant to be inclusive of operations performed by one or both computing entities.

The electronic game may include software that may be processed on or by the client and or that allows for or facilitates communication and data exchanges with the other clients and server via the network . The network may include for example the Internet. Other proprietary or closed networks may be used either exclusively or in conjunction with the Internet. Certain security protocols e.g. SSL or VPN or encryption methodologies may be used to ensure the security of data exchanges over network especially if the network is a publicly accessible network such as the Internet.

Electronic game players associated with each of the clients may interact with other electronic game players playing the electronic game . Accordingly these electronic game players or players at clients may compete with one another despite not being physically present with one another or sharing a common gaming device or console. Electronic game may include various events for which an electronic game player may customize audio.

In an electronic baseball game for example an event may be a home run or the seventh inning stretch. The event could also be the appearance of a particular game character in the game such as Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies stepping up to the plate. An event may constitute a combination of individual events. For example an event may include the appearance of a game player in conjunction with a particular event such as Ryan Howard hitting a home run.

The execution of a game event in electronic game may trigger the playback of customized audio provided by the game player. Playback of the customized audio may occur on the client device of the player that generated the audio. Playback of the customized audio may also be distributed over a network for playback to all other game players taking part in the particular session of game play e.g. a player controlling the pitcher and a player controlling an outfielder .

Electronic game may also provide audio processing capabilities. The player may utilize these capabilities to enhance or otherwise manipulate player generated audio and thereby positively affect the gaming experience. For example in the aforementioned electronic game a player may provide a single voice audio input to client . The user may then apply the processing capabilities provided by execution of the electronic game at client to for example generate a crowd chant thereby creating the illusion of mass participation.

Additional information may be found at the Cell Broadband Engine Public Information and Download Site http cell.scei.co.jp e download.html specifically documentation entitled Cell Broadband Engine Architecture V 1.01 dated Oct. 3 2006 and Synergistic Processor Unit SPU Instruction Set Architecture V 1.2 dated Jan. 27 2007 . The disclosure of each document is incorporated herein by reference. The Cell processor architecture represents the work of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba and International Business Machines Corporation.

Through the use of the aforementioned Cell processor data and applications may be processed and packaged into uniquely identified and uniformly formatted software cells. The uniformity of structure and unique identification facilitates the processing of applications and data throughout a network of Cell processor equipped computing devices. For example one computing device may formulate a software cell but distribute that cell to another device for processing. Thus the cells may migrate throughout a network for processing on the basis of the availability of processing resources on the network.

The cell processor in one exemplary embodiment includes a main memory a single power processor element PPE and eight synergistic processor elements SPE . The cell processor may be configured however with more than one PPE and any number of SPEs . Each SPE comprises a synergistic processor unit SPU and a local store LS .

Memory PPE and SPEs may communicate with each other and with an I O device over for example a ring type element interconnect bus EIB coupled to a bus interface controller BIC . The PPE and SPEs may access the EIB through bus interface units BIU . The PPE and SPEs may access the main memory over the EIB through memory flow controllers MFC and memory interface controller MIC .

Memory may include a program that implements executable instructions. The instructions may be read from a CD ROM or other optical disc in CD DVD reader coupled to the I O device the CD ROM or other optical disc being loaded into the reader . The CD ROM too may comprise a program executable instructions or other data . Other information may be introduced to the computing device through peripheral devices not shown such as a wireless or USB microphone headset. This information may include player generated audio which may then be processed by the processor for distribution over a network to other client devices.

PPE may be a standard processor capable of stand alone processing of data and applications. In operation PPE may schedule and orchestrate the processing of data and applications by SPEs and the associated SPU. The SPU may be a single instruction multiple data SIMD processor. Under the control of PPE the SPUs may process data and application in a parallel and independent manner. MIC may control accesses by PPE SPUs to data and applications in main memory .

Referring to method of in step an audio clip is received at client as generated by the player. This audio clip may be input to the client and an electronic game through a microphone or some other audio input device coupled to the client . The audio clip may also be introduced in the form of computer readable storage media the media having the clip stored thereon e.g. a flash card or CD ROM . The audio clip may be a simple phrase a series of phrases or expressions or may be a more complex and involved piece of content such as a song or sound track. In the latter instance the song may be direct from a music CD that one might purchase in a store or electronic content downloaded from an on line music provider. Audio clip may be stored directly in memory of the client as may be the case when the clip is introduced through a microphone. The clip may be accessed as needed from the computer readable medium. Clips from computer readable storage media may also be transferred and stored on the client .

In some embodiments step may be conducted in the context of electronic game or through a menu separate from game play such that the player has suspended game play in order to provide the audio. A recording interface may be made available to the player for recording the audio clip. Such an interface may display audio levels in a recording level meter allow the player to start or stop the recording of an audio clip or initiate playback of a captured audio clip such that the player may listen to the audio before accepting a recording.

Upon recording the player may be prompted by electronic game via the recording interface to provide further instructions regarding playback of the audio. This may include optional modification or processing in step or customization of playback in electronic game as may occur in step . Event association in step may also occur via this interface.

In optional step one or more modifications may be applied to the received audio clip. These modifications may occur through any number of digital signal processing techniques as are generally known in the art. For example in step a player may introduce a cheer or a chant. That cheer or chant however will be largely ineffective and seem out of place when uttered by a single user in the context of a stadium or arena environment as may be the case of a sporting game. Through the application of audio modification however the chant may be processed to sound as if it comes from dozens hundreds or thousands of other persons that might be present in the area or stadium.

Variations in tone and other acoustic properties may be applied such that the audio clip does not merely sound as if it is being uttered by hundreds of people in the exact same tone e.g. the clip may be modified to sound as if it is being uttered by men women and children . These variations may be automated in the context of the game . For example a user might input the audio clip and then select in a game menu an option to apply chant processing. The game may then execute the necessary processing to effectuate the aforementioned changes. In some embodiments however the game may offer mixing tools where a user may manually make audio modifications to the file. These modifications may include for example the aforementioned addition of number of persons chanting the environmental acoustics the tone of the persons chanting and the gender and age of the persons chanting. Audio clips may also be pre processed by another audio mixing application separate from the game and then simply introduced to the client as was the case in step above.

In step the audio clip which may have been processed in step is associated with an event in electronic game . Game events are inclusive and may encompass any repeatable and or categorical instance in game . For example in the context of a baseball game a particular player stepping up to bat may constitute an event. In a football game completion of a pass more than a certain number of yards may constitute an event. In a military role playing game eliminating a target may constitute an event. In a racing game beating a particular competitor or competitors may constitute an event. These examples all reflect the breadth and inclusive nature of game events that may be associated with the audio clip.

Audio clip may be a clip having been immediately presented in step . Audio clip may also be stored on client or some other storage medium without an immediate association to a game event. A player may then retrieve a previously stored audio clip and associate it with a game event in step . Certain default setting may also apply in electronic game concerning a default category or library of clips as they pertain to a similar catalog of game events. These default settings may be applied until a new association is made or removed and or otherwise customized as described in step below.

Events eligible for association may be categorized by a designer of a game or may be selected by a game player. Selection of events for association and the actual association of events may occur through menu navigation whereby an event or groups of events is identified selected and then a particular audio clip is identified and selected and associated with the previously selected event. In some embodiments certain application programming interfaces APIs may be made available whereby a more advanced game player can associate audio clips with particular events not otherwise identified in the likes of a drop down menu. Similarly a user may be able to use such APIs to expand the events eligible for association with an audio clip.

In optional step the audio clip event association playback may be customized. For example the game player may not want a particular audio clip to be played each and every time a particular player steps up to the plate. In such an instance the player may set the frequency to every other time every third time a randomized selection or any other particular frequency as may be applicable to the event in the game. Other aspects of the association may be characterized including duration of playback. By further example the audio clip event association playback may only occur if a particular other player or competitor is also present in a networked game play session. Similarly the audio clip event association playback may only be presented over the game play network to a particular player or group of players instead of all players involved in the session.

A player may also have associated a number of audio clips with a particular event. Through customization the player may set a randomizer with respect to which of the audio clips is played in the context of that particular event. Customization may occur through a menu or some other interface or be more complexly coded through the use of APIs as discussed above. Alternatively a default setting may be used. In step the audio clip event association and any customization information is stored.

The player may provide additional audio clips in which case steps may be repeated. Alternatively the player may begin game play of electronic game utilizing the aforementioned audio clips. Upon execution of the event in electronic game and subject to any customization or other limitations the associated audio clip is retrieved from memory and play of the audio clip is initiated in the context of the game event. Playback of that clip again subject to any customization limitations may be transmitted over the game play network to other game players involved in a particular gaming session.

The audio clip may be played locally via an audio player on client or on an audio device independent but otherwise coupled to client . Transmitting the audio clip to another client device in the game network and or session may occur via network cables network or via an ad hoc network to another client .

A player may make use of microphone in order to record an audio clip. The input to microphone may be passed to interface . Interface is inclusive of a Universal Serial Bus USB interface an IEEE 1394 interface an wireless interface which in some instances may be network interface as discussed below. Interface is likewise inclusive of a memory card interface. Audio input may also be provided through the likes of an optical disc and optical disc control unit reader not shown .

Interface is coupled to input output processor IOP via one or more system bus which may or may not be dedicated depending on a particular implementation of system . IOP controls data exchanges between interface Cell processor as was previously described in the context of sound processing unit SPU network interface and memory . IOP also controls a variety of other system components including graphics processing units not shown and controller interfaces not shown as well as optical disc control units not shown and hard disc drive not shown . The SPU executes instructions and processes data to produce sound signals that may be output on an audio device such as speaker. Sound signals may likewise be transmitted over network via network interface . Network interface provides hardware functionality for the system to connect to a network which may or may not be wireless. Network adaptor may also include or access certain software in the system to allow for identification and connection to a particular Internet Protocol address and or connect to a particular Internet Service Provider. Software may also provide other functionalities such as the creation and maintenance of user profiles. Network interface may allow for communications over a local area network or point to point network e.g. receiving instructions from a wireless control device . Network interface may concurrently operate to allow for wide area network communications such as those over the Internet or with a remotely located client device as shown in .

Cell processor executes programs stored in for example memory . Cell processor may likewise access and or store information in memory that may be needed and or generated by one of the aforementioned programs. Memory may contain pre stored programs and may also contain programs transferred via the IOP from a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical disc not shown using an optical disc control unit not shown or from the network via network interface as well as interface .

In memory includes a digital signal processing engine scrubber application and game data all of which may have been accessed via the likes of an electronic game . Game data may include actual game data e.g. rendering instructions . Game data may also include data generated for the game including audio clips and audio clip event association data.

Execution of digital signal processing engine by processor may allow for manipulation or processing of a pre recorded audio clip input via interface . A player may choose to apply various modifications to the audio clip through digital signal processing engine . Scrubber application may be executable by processor to block unwanted audio transmissions sent over network . An example of such a scrubber application is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 633 688 filed Dec. 4 2006 and entitled Removing Audio Distrubances in a Voice Chat Network. Scrubber application may be a part of electronic game or a software application installed from another source outside of electronic game .

As noted above game data may include data for the execution of electronic game or may concern data about or for electronic game including audio clip data. Cell processor may create an association in memory or some other database between the audio clip and the selected game event in response to a user instruction. Upon occurrence of the related event in the electronic game and satisfaction of any customized aspect of the same the audio clip may be retrieved and played back through the SPU and a related output device such as a speaker and or transmitted over network .

The methods identified in and the order thereof are exemplary and may include various alternatives equivalents or derivations thereof including but not limited to the order of execution of the same. The steps of the method of and its various alternatives may be embodied in hardware or software including a machine readable storage media e.g. optical disc and memory card including programs and or instructions executable by a machine such as the processor of a computing device. Likewise the components shown in are meant to be exemplary components in a hardware system configured to execute the methods described in . As such the descriptions and drawings should not be considered in a limiting sense as it is understood that the disclosure presented is illustrative and not restricted to the embodiments discussed herein.

