---

title: River assessment, monitoring and design system
abstract: A method, apparatus and program product to facilitate the analysis and monitoring of stream and river conditions, with emphasis on Natural Channel Design. To this end, the invention uses and processes channel data to provide analysis and monitoring information and optimized channel design information. The channel data is automatically accessed from a database that includes channel data derived from a plurality of geomorphological sources and user inputs. The channel data is located and otherwise determined in response to user input and is used to derive optimized channel design information. This channel design information may be used to implement specific preventive and restorative practices appropriate to realize stable and ecologically appropriate characteristics for a given target reach.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07797143&OS=07797143&RS=07797143
owner: FMSM Engineers, Inc.
number: 07797143
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080207
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 769 940 entitled RIVER ASSESSMENT MONITORING AND DESIGN SYSTEM filed on Feb. 2 2004 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which claims the filing benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 444 277 entitled RIVER RESTORATION SYSTEM filed on Jan. 31 2003 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to computer operations and more particularly to a computer implemented system for river analysis.

The need for effective waterway planning and management continues to grow in the face of changing manmade and natural challenges. For instance natural water flows are routinely dammed redirected caused to take on increased flow or otherwise altered by urban expansion. Absent corrective measures such changes to existing river conditions can lead to flooding fragmentation nutrient disruption erosion and other potentially destructive situations for dwellings and natural habitats. Professionals must consequently anticipate such changes and make physical adjustments to the channel width banks route depth or other features of a stream or river to accommodate the new river conditions.

To this end river professionals have developed formulas and spreadsheet applications for assessing and monitoring existing streams and rivers. Stored data pertaining to existing waterways can be useful in designing optimal dimensions for a disturbed impacted reach or target stretch of water. Such data conventionally includes data collected on a river or stream within the boundaries defined by approximately 20 30 bankfull widths along the thalweg and the breadth of the floodprone area. A thalweg comprises a line connecting the deepest points along a channel and bankfull generally regards a stream discharge value at a point where the river just fills the banks of a stream channel. Such design practices are generally categorized under a group of river restoration processes called Natural Channel Design.

Natural Channel Design incorporates naturally occurring stream processes during a restoration project to an extent that will allow the stream itself to stabilize and provide maximal biological potential. To this end Natural Channel Design incorporates fluvial geomorphology as the basis for stream stabilization. Aspects of fluvial geomorphology include the interactions of climate geology topography vegetation and land use within a given watershed. Natural Channel Design also makes allowances for the fact that rivers and streams support both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. The goal of Natural Channel Design is to provide a healthy habitat for aquatic organisms such as fish amphibians insects mollusks and plants while stabilizing the stream networks that provide food sources and migration routes for mammals and birds. That is using undisturbed properly functioning sections of streams or reference reaches as models promotes restoration solutions for stream channels that provide both physical stability and biological potential.

Despite the advancements to design processes realized by Natural Channel Design formulas and the electronic storage of existing river statistics river design remains an arduous task. For example accounting for all of the above listed geomorphological variables during the restoration of a stream presents a major challenge to Natural Channel Design. Namely a conventional designer must accomplish the substantial task of retrieving the stored river data from numerous decentralized sources in the course of a channel design process. Even where all of such data is accessible to the designer it may take hours to amass the data required to finish the design.

In a specific example a user attempting to accomplish a design for an impact reach must manually measure reach data such as the cross sectional dimensions of a stretch of the impact reach. The user then records the reach data in a log book the entries of which the user will later apply in formulas in order to arrive at a design feature. Often the formulas require additional data from multiple reference books and or government databases such as reference reach data or regional curves. The formulas themselves must be routinely looked up in another book or other source before the user can begin to manually enter numbers into a calculator to solve the requisite equations. In any case convention design processes burden professionals with locating and updating data from numerous different sources.

While conventional spreadsheets and databases can help with the efficiency of certain aspects of a design process such as copying data conventional tools still require a user to manually calculate and visualize aspects of a channel design. Such tedious practices associated with manually evaluating large amounts of data and program results can slow and otherwise complicate design processes. Furthermore the decentralized sources results and incompatible formats of compiled data and tools used in conventional design processes can frustrate comprehensive analysis of channel design. As such an abundance of available data and calculations can ironically overwhelm a planner contribute to inefficiency and ultimately lead to an inferior design.

Consequently and for in part the above delineated reasons there exists a need for an improved manner of analyzing designing and otherwise managing river features.

The present invention provides an improved apparatus method and program product for analyzing monitoring and designing stream and river conditions. The present invention has particular application in enabling stream assessments stream monitoring and Natural Channel Design. Natural Channel Design generally regards using a stable reach of water as a reference for designing features of an impacted stream reach. This practice generally yields designs that exhibit the most stable and ecologically appropriate characteristics for a given target reach. To this end the invention processes channel data to provide optimized channel design information. The channel data is automatically accessed from a database that includes channel data derived from a plurality of geomorphological sources. The channel data is located and otherwise determined in response to user input requesting the optimized channel design information.

The optimized channel design information typically comprises graphics and text that define dimensions composition and other characteristics of a channel design best suited for the target reach. For example the optimized channel design information output to a user may include the optimized flow sediment biological and stability characteristics for the target reach. Other channel design information may include predictions useful in anticipating future river conditions and preempting potential problem areas of a river.

The channel design information may be used as a model by a user who can implement specific preventive and restorative practices appropriate to realize the channel design at the target reach. In that sense an embodiment of the invention may use a reference reach along with existing reach data in empirical formulas to automatically generate a detailed description of the designed reach including its stream classification and the geometry of its meander pattern.

More particularly channel design information consistent with the invention may be based on channel data from both the impact and a reference reach of a river. The reference reach of a river may correspond to a portion of the river having characteristics desirable for the impact reach of the river. Inclusion of data derived from the reference reach in the software processing promotes river continuity and natural processes. Exemplary channel measurement data includes among other inputs cross sectional geometry thalweg water surface and bankfull slope profile data pool spacing bank height sediment deposition particle composition and bend frequency. Other applicable channel data may include bar forming occurrences vegetation data fish population statistics erosion indicators and water quality. Such data may be typed downloaded or be otherwise entered into the database.

The configuration of the database facilitates river analysis by providing comprehensive data access for engineers and automated calculation tools. Such access enables data to be transparently drawn from the database obviating the need for a user to re enter data. To this end the software may include a graphical user interface GUI that links to the data within the database and allows the user to graphically manipulate the data. An exemplary GUI link may include a pointer to Geographic Information System GIS digital maps that allow direct measurements of geomorphic features. Capitalizing on GIS features a user may exploit the maps to measure reach width radius of curvature meander wavelength and sinuosity of the target or impact reach.

By virtue of the foregoing there is thus provided an improved river analysis and monitoring system that addresses above identified shortcomings of known river planning practices. In so doing the invention provides a comprehensive and accessible resource of stored data and tools useful to environmental professionals. These and other objects and advantages of the present invention shall be made apparent from the accompanying drawing and the description thereof.

With reference generally to the embodiment of there is shown a computer system configured to analyze and monitor stream and river conditions with emphasis on Natural Channel Design. To this end the system processes measurements applicable formulas and other channel measurement data to provide graphics text and other design information that defines the dimensions composition and other characteristics best suited for a target or impact reach of a river or stream. For instance channel design information determined by the system may provide optimized flow sediment biological and stability characteristic for the target reach. This channel design information may be used as a blueprint for implementing specific preventive and restorative practices appropriate to realize the channel design feature at the impact reach.

Turning more particularly to the system includes at least one apparatus e.g. such as user computer . The computer at least initially receives channel data communicated from various source computers and or by direct data entry. For the purposes of the invention each computer and may represent practically any type of computer computer system or other programmable electronic device capable of communicating channel data. For instance computer may include a portable device such as a laptop or a handheld Personal Assistant Device. Moreover each computer and may be implemented using one or more networked computers e.g. in a distributed computing system. The communication of the channel data may be accomplished via the Internet an intranet an ethernet direct cabling or some other network connection to include wireless reception.

Exemplary channel data communicated from the sources and or by direct data entry or otherwise stored at the user computer may be derived from geomorphological studies theories and equations as well as from references retrieved from remote databases. Channel data formats may include digital text audio streaming video photographs binary machine language and text. One embodiment consistent with the invention may provide additional benefit to a planner by processing all channel data to ensure compatibility between respective formats of data ultimately used for the design.

Computer typically includes at least one processor coupled to a memory . Processor may represent one or more processors e.g. microprocessors and memory may represent the random access memory RAM devices comprising the main storage of computer as well as any supplemental levels of memory e.g. cache memories non volatile or backup memories e.g. programmable or flash memories read only memories etc. In addition memory may be considered to include memory storage physically located elsewhere in computer e.g. any cache memory in a processor as well as any storage capacity used as a virtual memory e.g. as stored within a reach database or on another computer coupled to computer via network .

Computer also may receive a number of inputs and outputs for communicating information externally. For interface with a user computer typically includes one or more input devices e.g. a keyboard a mouse a trackball a joystick a touchpad and or a microphone among others and a display e.g. a CRT monitor an LCD display panel and or a speaker among others . It should be appreciated however that with some implementations of computer e.g. some server implementations direct user input and output may not be supported by the computer and interface with the computer may be implemented through client computer or workstation networked with computer .

For additional storage computer may also include one or more mass storage devices configured to store the reach database . Exemplary devices may include a floppy or other removable disk drive a hard disk drive a direct access storage device DASD an optical drive e.g. a CD drive a DVD drive etc. and or a tape drive among others. Furthermore computer may include an interface with one or more networks e.g. a LAN a WAN a wireless network and or the Internet among others to permit the communication of information with other computers coupled to the network. It should be appreciated that computer typically includes suitable analog and or digital interfaces between processor and each of components and .

Computer operates under the control of an operating system and executes various computer software applications components programs objects modules etc. For instance the embodiment of includes program code configured to at least in part assist in river design monitoring assessment and restoration. Such program code may include any number of subprograms routines and computing tools. Such program code may be updated removed added and or augmented to reflect new design and industry practices. As such channel data for purposes of this specification includes program code which may be remotely retrieved and stored locally for execution along with other channel data such as reach measurements.

More specifically channel data comprising the program code may include a profile program that automatically determines or enables the user to determine average reach riffle run glide and pool slopes depths and lengths of features using entered channel data according to commonly accepted practices. As shown in the operating system is also configured to execute an interactive mapping program such as a Geographic Information System GIS .

The operating system shown in additionally executes resistance programs that include known variables and methods associated with Manning s equation the Cowan Chezy and or Darcy Weisbach equations as well as those based on standard pipe flow equations or additional equation accepted by the industry to determine velocity and discharge. A bank erosion hazard tool automatically determines erosion rates from field assessments using studies and or formulas retrieved from the database or another source. Such a determination process may use a published curve prepared by the United States Park Service for instance. A Pfankuch channel rating or assessment program retrieves data and determines an overall reach condition. The Pfankuch channel stability rating method is described in Stream Reach Inventory and Channel Stability Evolution a Watershed Management Procedure published by the United States Forest Service. A channel stability and biological assessment program processes stored channel data in the database to determine a number of channel stability or biological conditions known and used by those skilled in the art to evaluate the ecological status of a reach.

A regional curve program of helps validate a natural channel design. For instance the regional curve program may already contain or initiate the download of a number of industry accepted regional curves. Such curves may be stored within the database and be made available to the user in a drop down menu or displayed graphically for instance. Other curves may include locally collected and developed regional curves. Such data may be automatically entered into a table that may be edited. An embodiment of the invention may also create new curves from data entered into the table and by clicking data into a graph. The regional curve program then evaluates the curve equation and statistical parameters to determine the quality of a fitted curve. The use of regional curves is known in the art and described in Water in Environmental Planning 1978 by Dunne and Leopold which is available from the United States Geological Service.

A vane design program determines vane length and spacing as a function of bankfull width radius of curvature and vane departure angle. The vane design program also determines a minimum rock size for vane construction as a function of shear stress and the minimum spacing between vanes as a function of channel slope. The vane design tool enables the user to quickly calculate vane length and spacing as a function of bankfull width radius of curvature and vane departure angle. A peak discharge program determines runoff from rainfall and watershed conditions using equations developed by the National Resource Conservation Service. A gage analysis program processes retrieved data and equations commonly accepted and known within the industry to determine discharge for a variety of return intervals. Such a determination facilitates flood frequency analysis and hydraulic geometry plotting as well as regional curve creation.

A survey program processes survey channel data using known differential leveling and total station data techniques. An aerial measurement program serves as a link to GIS data by allowing direct measurements of a number of geomorphic features using aerial mapping CAD drawings digital images or shape files. Such interaction with GIS data may be near real time. A cross section program accesses stored cross section data and processes it according to commonly accepted surveying practices to determine cross sectional area bankfull width bankfull depth other bankfull properties and hydraulic geometry for instance using existing data formulas such as the resistance programs and sediment transport equations. Cross section program also allows the user to quickly determine bankfull features by dragging a line graphically through the use of a mouse stylus or other device. A particle size distribution program determines the particle size distribution of bed materials using user entered data or data retrieved from the database or another source. The determination may be based on the Wolman pebble count method or from commonly accepted particles size analysis procedures as are known in the art.

Though not explicitly shown in one skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments consistent with the invention may comprise additional programs as needed to include equations to predict channel geometries as a function of known parameters a velocity determination program pipe dimension and placement determination programs as well as a dimensionless ratio program and Rosgen Classification System program among others. Moreover various applications components programs objects modules etc. may also execute on one or more processors in another computer coupled to computer via a network e.g. in a distributed or client server computing environment whereby the processing required to implement the functions of a computer program may be allocated to multiple computers over a network.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention whether implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions will be referred to herein as computer programs or simply programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions that are resident at various times in various computer memory and storage devices. When a program is read and executed by a processor the program causes the computer to execute steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention.

Moreover while the invention has and hereinafter will be described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments of the invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of signal bearing media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. CD ROM s DVD s etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

In addition various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature included herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the exemplary environments illustrated in are not intended to limit the present invention. Indeed those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative hardware and or software environments may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. For instance the manner in which data is organized stored and otherwise processed within the system may vary from one embodiment to another depending on different user and system requirements. In this vein shows one exemplary embodiment of a database schematic that is consistent with the invention.

More particularly the database schematic diagram of which is analogous to the reach database of provides channel data that includes reach measurements programmatic assessments and design evaluative programs. Because the diagram has particular application in the context of design assessment and monitoring processes the system may store all geomorphic data in a central location that includes the database . This centralized feature facilitates the development of reference reach data regional curves and stream related data and provides a medium through which geomorphically derived data is shared by networked professionals. The flexible structure of the diagram further allows easy inclusion and updating of subsequent channel data including measurements and programs to reflect changes in the current practices of determining channel information. The format of the channel data stored within the database may include text machine code audio digital images and streaming video for user display and reference.

As shown in the the operating system organizes channel data in logical association with one or more river names. New rivers may be manually or automatically added and stored in association with the river. River data may subsequently be updated manually or automatically. For example a browser function of the system allows the download of remotely available data such as is available from a remote government data source or other data source. Other updates may occur transparently to the user for instance at regular timed intervals. As such a user seeking survey data of a particular creek may only have to click on a list displaying the name of that creek to have a menu of channel data including survey data displayed on the monitor. For instance clicking or otherwise selecting a river name displayed in a list may prompt the display of one or more reach data fields associated with a field that corresponds to that river. Selection of a reach field in turn may initiate the display of further compartmentalized data associated with the selected reach field . For example selection of a particular reach field may display relevant survey cross sectional profile and particle data for that reach. Where desired a field and corresponding to each of these respective headings may further be selected to cause the display of more detailed data associated with the respective data heading.

To this end subordinate heading names displayed to a user via the GUI may be highlighted italicized or colored to indicate to the user whether there is further detailed information associated with that particular heading. As such the structure of the database allows a user to selectively access needed data in an organized and efficient manner. That is the user can easily navigate through and access only that information that they need.

As discussed herein the database may store industry accepted programs values and equations while allowing a user to create and or input new channel data. For instance such channel data may include regime equations known in the art. More particularly the database may store a number of commonly used dimensionless ratios. Such ratios may be utilized when designing streams based on the reference reach method. Dimensionless ratios include standard measurements that are divided by a known measurement such as a bankfull depth for instance. This dimensionless parameter is then multiplied by a reach specific bankfull depth or other parameters. The reference reach measurements are then applied to the design of an impact reach. The use of dimensionless ratios in the field of hydrology hydraulics is known in the art.

Turning more particularly to each field and of the schematic diagram includes channel data that pertains to a river. For instance a river field typically includes the name of a particular river for ease of reference. Specific stretches of that river are stored in associated reach fields and . That is channel data particular to a reach is stored in logical association with the river named in field . For instance a survey data field may include a permanent record of field book data associated with the river of field . Such survey data may be entered in multiple formats including leveling and or total station formats as are known in the art. For example a user may manually enter weather temperature date personnel identification and other records into the database. In another instance a user may click on a date displayed on a calendar on a user s monitor display. The date may then be automatically caused to populate a field stored in association with the reach field .

A cross section field includes data pertaining to the cross section of the reach in reach field . Profile data pertinent to the reach is stored in a profile field and a particle field stores channel data relating to the size of sediment particles in the particular reach of the river. As such a user may manually input or initiate the download of data pertaining to the total number of pebbles that fall within a given range. For instance the size of the largest particle measured or stored in association with a reach may be stored in the database. Selection of sieve sizes may be selected for instance by using a pulldown menu of the GUI.

A classification field may include the type of the associated reach as categorized according to known processes. A Pfankuch field may be used to further determine the stability rating of an applicable reach as may a Bank Erosion Hazard Index BEHI field and a Stream Visual Assessment Protocol SVAP field . As discussed in greater detail below a design field includes channel data that is particularly useful in determining a design information. As with any of the fields shown in the design field may further be logically associated with additional channel data fields such as Natural Channel Design NCD field and vane design field .

Though not shown in the exemplary schematic diagram one skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of other fields corresponding to other channel data may additionally and or alternatively be included. For instance the operating system may similarly access data and equations stored in the database to determine sediment transport competency measurements or other data and equations used to relate the processes through which sediment moves through a river system.

Presuming the user has been properly licensed at block of the flowchart of the operating system displays a graphical user interface GUI to the user. An exemplary GUI is shown and discussed in greater detail below in describing . In one respect the GUI prompts input from the user at block of . Such input includes a request to obtain channel design information such as cross sectional data for a target reach.

After receiving the user input at block the operating system of the computer may determine channel data requirements at block . For example the operating system may reference a list stored in the database to see what fields are required to determine the information requested at block of . Once the location of applicable data is determined at block for instance the appropriate channel data may be retrieved from the database at block . For example a request for a discharge or velocity of an impact reach may prompt retrieval of an appropriate equation at block from the memory of the computer .

The operating system may alternatively and or additionally require manually entered data from the user at block . As such the operating system may prompt and receive data at block . Where applicable such data may be entered directly into the user computer or be downloaded from another portable device employed by the user to enter the data at the river site. For instance the operating system may prompt the user to submit gage and or discharge measurements taken from the impact stream. Thus the operating system causes the user to manually enter the data at block of . Still other required data may be downloaded from remote sources at blocks and . For example the operating system may retrieve existing reach data from a government remote website at block . An embodiment loads the existing reach data into the appropriate fields. The user may then modify the data as necessary to reflect design particulars.

Irrespective of how the data is received the channel data is processed by the computer at block . Such processing may comprise initially verifying that all the data needed to complete the request of the user is available. Processing at block may also include the automatic execution of applicable programs executed by the operating system . Where necessary some such processes may require additional data at block . As such the additional data is subsequently or concurrently processed to determine needed channel information. That is input received at block of may require multiple determinations that require additional channel data and processing prior to outputting the channel design information at block .

An embodiment consistent with the invention provides a user intuitive graphical user interface GUI to process geomorphic information related to channel measurements assessments and design. The GUI links to the database that stores programmatic tools and values useful for determining a number of geomorphic values and relationships that comprise channel design information. To this end the GUI may include one or more toolbars that allow a user to quickly navigate between data associated with given rivers and reaches. The toolbar may include icons browsers and other links to data and tools. For example a toolbar may include links to reach profile particle and cross section data. Other links may point to survey data reach GIS erosion hazard index data visual stream assessment protocol data as well as Natural Channel Design and regional curve data. Tools and other programs available to the user via the toolbar may include resistance and regime equations as well as stored regional curves. Such curves may have application in determining relationships of discharge area width and depth versus drainage area that is consistent with desired natural streams in the same geographic area. An embodiment of the GUI may also include GIS features. Included in the GIS are components for adding removing zooming selecting and identifying geomorphic features and graphics. A GIS may also include tools for measuring thalweg radius of curvature sinuosity and meander wavelength of a particular reach as well as other industry accepted geomorphic measurements.

Turning more particularly to an exemplary browser window of a GUI configured to initially assist a user in obtaining channel design information is shown. More specifically the browser window illustrated in may have particular application in connection with block of . That is the operating system may initially display the browser window of to prompt user input relating to design information.

As illustrated in the embodiment of the browser window comprises a main window . The exemplary main window may include a digital photograph as shown as well as other graphics and or skins. Skins may include user interface settings such as background color. A database tree view of presents the user with mouse click access to different layers of detail pertaining to a respective river. As discussed above in detail channel data is stored under a number of categories such as by river name with all channel data being accessible through a data tree view located in the left of the window shown in . Links associated with new rivers reaches and data sets are added within the data tree view as appropriate. A toolbar of the browser window assists the user in manipulating and navigating through available data and programs as do the non global tools shown in the toolbox located beneath the tree view . These non global tools shown in may also be displayed in a drop down menu. For instance selection of a GIS icon in the main toolbox may initiate a mapping display and associated tools configured to in part assist in determining reach data measurements.

The exemplary browser window of shows one such graph of a displayed result. The browser window includes a graph showing the cross section of a designed reach. Such a graph may be viewed when a user selects a typical sections tab . The user may manipulate the graph using command buttons . The user may save a design and or print using buttons and respectively as needed.

More particularly and with additional reference to cross sections may be used to measure many of the geomorphologic parameters in a given reach. Classification requires the use of at least one riffle cross section. Natural channel design works best when multiple cross sections are taken in a reference reach providing ranges of values for riffles pools runs and glides. Cross sections may be added deleted or renamed using for example a drop down menu in the graphical user interface.

A cross section data grid may be used to expedite the process of converting unreduced survey data into a graph that may be used to calculate typical geomorphic properties. Alternatively standard x y data may be used. As cross sections are added a type may be identified for each cross section. In one embodiment the type is set to a default value of riffle if no other type is specified. The type may be changed by a user. Types may include for example Riffle Pool Run and Glide. The type may be used to organize cross section data and to identify which data are applicable to stream classification and the development of dimensionless ratios.

In some embodiments the cross section editor may be formatted to reduce survey field notes such as those illustrated in the cross section in for a single instrument set up i.e. only one back site per cross section. In other embodiments the cross section editor may be configured to reduce field notes taken with differential leveling field techniques which requires a bench mark elevation BM and back site BS rod reading.

The cross section data grid may contain three numeric columns and one alpha numeric column. In one embodiment the data grid may contain the horizontal distance from the Left End Pin LEP or zero stake for each rod reading the foresight or rod reading which may be measured with a survey staff for example the elevation of the point if using standard x y data and an optional description for each rod reading or elevation . The optional description may be in the form of notes which may be selected from a standard set of notes including BM Benchmark FS Foresight BS Backsight WS Water Surface FP Floodplain LT Low Terrace MT Middle Terrace HT High Terrace LB Left Bank RB Right Bank LEW Left Edge of Water REW Right Edge of Water CL Centerline of Channel PB Point Bar BKF Bankfull Indicator SB Stream Bed LEP Left End Pin REP Right End Pin and BNKPN Bank Pin . An exemplary cross section with standard notes is shown in .

A commonly used hydraulic model in the United States for analyzing one dimensional steady and unsteady water surface profiles is the United States Army Corps HEC RAS model and its predecessor HEC 2 . This model is developed independently by the Hydrologic Engineering Center in Davies Calif. Cross section data from this model may be imported or cross sectional may be exported to the model.

The cross section graph is a plot of the points that were entered as seen in the graph in . The cross section graph shows not only the graph of the cross section but also bankfull points and water surface elevation points on the graph. The graph may also be designed to interact with hydraulic calculations. In some embodiments cross sections may be divided into a left and right so that calculations may be subdivided in a cross section summary page.

In addition to the graphical representation a summary page may be utilized to show typical geomorpholgic calculations for a cross section channel and the left and right subportions. The calculations may be based on the bankfull elevation and split station specified on the graph. This page may provide a table of computed results for Floodprone Elevation Bankfull Elevation Floodprone Width Bankfull Width Entrenchment Ratio Mean Depth Maximum Depth Width Depth Ratio Bankfull Area Wetted Perimeter and Hydraulic Radius.

Similar to cross sections profile survey data may be reduced to assist in measuring lengths depths and slopes from a profile graph. Profiles may be added deleted or renamed by for example selecting the function from a drop down menu in the graphical user interface.

Profile data may be entered one of two ways by entering rod readings directly from field notes with elevations being automatically calculated or by entering elevations that were calculated elsewhere. The profile data entry grid may contain the following columns 

The profile data grid may be designed to expedite the process of converting unreduced survey profile data into a graph that can be used to calculate typical geomorphic properties such as maximum bankfull depth water facet slopes and pool to pool spacing. For the calculation of elevations from rod readings a bench mark elevation and a backsite rod reading need to be supplied. Water surface data may be supplied as either water depth measurements or the elevation of the water surface may be calculated by subtracting the rod reading from the height of the instrument BM elevation BS reading . Cross section names may be listed in the current reach in a table below the profile data entry grid. A profile station may be added for each cross section so that the cross section locations will be visible on the profile graph.

The longitudinal profile graph may also be interactive. The graph s measuring tool may be used to interactively populate the slopes lengths and depths data. In some embodiments the profile may plot the channel thalweg with a black line and markers and the low flow water surface with a blue line and markers. Other series or columns from the profile data entry grid may be plotted as markers only. Similar to the cross section plots above any profile s in the current project file may be selected to overlay on top of the current profile. Additionally a list of all cross sections within the active reach is located in the bottom right corner of the profile graph. As each cross section is checked a vertical line is placed on the graph at the location specified above. The longitudinal profile editor allows for storage up to 500 turning points.

The exemplary browser window of includes a map view as may be generated by the above discussed GIS program. The GIS toolbar allows a user to zoom print and measure geomorphic features shown in the map view among other options. For instance GIS programming linked to the GUI may include tools for measuring thalweg radius of curvature sinuosity and meander wavelength of a particular reach or other measurements. Such measurements are generally indicative of the dimensions of a bend or series bends in a river for instance. In a specific example a user may construct points or lines useful in measuring distances off of the map by clicking on the GIS image with a mouse. For instance to draw a straight line the user clicks once on the location of one of the line s endpoints then drags the line to the location of another endpoint. The user may then double click to create the desired line. A black line will appear on the display superimposed against the map in that location. Channel data comprising the length of that line is then presented or otherwise made available to the user.

In similar fashion a user may measure beltwidth and meander wavelength for instance as well as sinuosity and radius of curvature using the GIS features. As discussed herein such measurement data may be automatically and or manually used to populate the database. Other button and mouse functions known in the art may allow easy measurement of curves and river dimensions.

The flowchart of shows exemplary method steps suited for determining channel design information such as a Natural Channel Design. The steps of the flowchart are shown from the perspective of a user interacting with the hardware and software of . Turning to block of the user may select a design feature button of a GUI which initiates a process to establish a Natural Channel Design. The selection of the design button at block may cause the user to be further prompted at block of for reference reach data. As discussed herein such reference reach data has particular application in realizing a Natural Channel Design.

In providing the prompted reach channel data a user may select a displayed reference reach field such as is shown in the exemplary browser window of . Selection of the field causes appropriate data to automatically populate the data channel field . However where required channel data is determined at block of to be missing from the automatically imported channel data then the user may otherwise cause that data to be entered at block . Practices available to the user to load the data at block may include cut and paste techniques using channel data from other databases and sources. Other techniques may include using features of the mapping tool as shown in .

Where the data is alternatively complete at block the user may cause impact reach channel data to be entered at block of . Entry of data at block may be made into a browser window such as is shown in . As with the reference reach data the user may have to complete any missing data at block . Where all the data needed to determine a design feature is present at block the user may select a Go Design button at block .

After selecting the button at block of the user may then review the initial results or initial channel design at block . For instance the browser window of may be viewed by the user at block of . Where the classification and calculated depth is not within predefined classification or depth parameters or is otherwise unacceptable to the user at block the user may tweak the results at block . For instance the user may type in new data or adjust the slide scale mechanisms and to adjust and otherwise optimize a channel design.

Where the classification of the results is acceptable at block the user may select a different format in which to view the results at block . For instance the user may view a number of different graphical displays such as the graph shown in to gain a different perspective or additional design information. The user may make changes to the text background legend axis and labels of a graph where desired. Prior to ending a design process at block the user may save the optimized channel design information at block .

In operation a user may select the impact reach reference reach and regional curve from a database and sets up a new natural channel design. For instance a user may enter reference reach data via the GUI and select a tool to process the data to execute Natural Channel Design operations. In turn the program code initiates the display of determined channel dimensions and creates cross section and profile summaries that may be viewed by the user. Meander geometry is plotted using sign generated functions for each meander wavelength or may be based on a ratio of radius of curvature to bankfull width. The program code further includes a regional curve application viewable in a drop down menu. User collected data is automatically entered into a table. The software then displays the new regional curve equation and statistical parameters letting the user know the quality of the fitted curve. The program code further calculates riffle shear stress velocities according to known equations. The new channel design may be stored in association with a reach in the database. In developing the channel design information the user may set site constraints such as desired dimensions flows and other parameters comprising input channel data measurements. After determining the natural channel design the natural channel design dimensions classification results pebble count cross section and profile data may be viewed adjusted stored shared and or printed by the user.

The program code uses the Rosgen Stream Classification Systemto classify streams and rivers. Data for classification may be directly typed in or may be populated from ratios calculated by the program code. The GUI may include a classification screen toolbar containing the following tools Report generate a text report of the current classification data set Refresh refresh the data fields with the average values taken from the dimensionless ratios screen Get D extract a D from the selected particle size distribution listed in a Reach Pebble Count Classify force reclassification of the reach based on the current input values and Reset Sliders reset the entrenchment ratio adjustment and width to depth ratio adjustment sliders to the default zero values. D. L. Rosgen. A classification of natural rivers 22. Elsevier Science B.V. 1994. 169 199.D. L. Rosgen. . Minneapolis Printed Media Companies 1996.

Most of the data may be entered by first completing a dimensionless ratios form and then using the refresh tool on the classification tool bar. Values may also be typed directly into the classification screen. Classification data may be divided into groups of Valley Morphology Location and Date of Survey and Bankfull Channel Data.

Valley Morphology data includes a Valley Type selected from detailed descriptions of valley types defined in by Dave Rosgen. The Valley Slope ft ft is a measurement of the valley slope taken during the reach survey. This value may also be calculated if bankfull slope and sinuosity are known. The Drainage Area sq mi is the drainage area in square miles.

Location and Date of Survey includes the State and County. A latitude of the upstream starting point of the reach may be supplied in decimal degrees or converted from degrees minutes seconds DMS to decimal degrees. A longitude may be entered similar to Latitude above. The date that the reach data was collected may also be entered.

The Bankfull Channel Data or Riffle Cross Section data may include a selection of single thread or multiple channels. Width of the bankfull surface width may be entered in feet. Mean Depth of the bankfull mean depth may be entered in feet. The mean depth may be calculated if the width and cross sectional area data has been supplied. The Flood Prone Width may be entered in feet.

The Channel Materials D may be selected from a pre loaded list of particle size distribution data that has a Reach data type. Reach average pebble counts are most commonly used to define the type of channel with respect to channel materials bedrock boulder cobble gravel sand or silt clay . The water surface slope is entered at bankfull dimensionless or ft ft . The Sinuosity is the stream s sinuosity measurement. The sinuosity of the river may be calculated if valley slope and water surface slope have been measured accurately. Discharge is entered in cubic feet per second. Velocity is the average bankfull velocity in feet per second. The Cross Sectional Area is the bankfull cross sectional area in square feet. The cross sectional area may be calculated if Width and Mean Depth are known.

An Entrenchment Ratio may be calculated automatically by the program code. This value is defined by Flood Prone Width Width. A Width to Depth Ratio may also be calculated automatically by the program code. This value is defined by Width Mean Depth. Bedrock Control may also be identified for the classification.

As the required data is being entered into the appropriate fields the program code may be checking for the critical data needed to perform a stream classification Entrenchment Ratio Width Depth Ratio Sinuosity Slope and Channel Materials . Once these values have been entered the program code performs a stream classification and displays the result along with a representative sketch of the stream type. The program code may reclassify the data based on adjustments made to the Entrenchment Ratio Adjustment and to the Width to Depth Ratio Adjustment. In some embodiments these adjustments may be made using slider bars in the GUI.

While the present invention has been illustrated by a description of various embodiments and while these embodiments have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention of the applicants to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. For instance while embodiments consistent with the present invention may have particular application in the context of Natural Channel Design stream assessment and stream monitoring one skilled in the art will appreciate that principles of the present invention are equally applicable to other water design processes. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. One skilled in the art will appreciate that these Figures represent an example of the content contained in Applicants system and that the system contains additional screens and functionality. Thus the invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details representative apparatus and method and illustrative example shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of applicants general inventive concept.

