---

title: Multi-sensor signal fusion for modulation classification of weak signals
abstract: A multi-sensor signal fusion apparatus is provided for automatic modulation classification of weak unknown signals in non-cooperative communication environment with a more accurate description of the signal. The multi-sensor non-cooperative demodulation device combines a group of sensors, a signal fusion sensor, a means for signal demodulation, and a means for automatic modulation classification. An output of the signal fusion sensor is sent to a means for modulation scheme classification to select the appropriate demodulation technique for demodulating the unknown signal and provide the necessary intelligence about the monitored signals to the user and allow the user to simulate the unknown non-cooperative signal. The present invention also contemplates a multi-sensor signal fusion article of manufacture with a storage medium encoded with machine-readable computer program code for more accurate descriptions of monitored signals and methods for achieving higher accuracy descriptions of monitored signals in a non-cooperative environment with multi-sensor non-cooperative demodulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085882&OS=08085882&RS=08085882
owner: The United States of America as respresented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08085882
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

The invention generally relates to signal collection networks. In particular the invention relates to signal monitoring apparatus and methods based on multi sensor fusion for modulation classification of weak signals.

Non cooperative demodulation is a technique to demodulate communication signals without hand shaking between the transmitter and the receiver. This technique has been widely used in both military and commercial communications battlefield surveillance hostile signal detection and signal monitoring. In non cooperative communications the receiver has no knowledge or only has limited knowledge of the transmitting signal for example the signal monitoring devices may not know the format of the signal being monitored in tactical or hostile environment involving military or law enforcement operations. Non cooperative demodulation will be used in non cooperative communication.

Automatic modulation classification is a key component in non cooperative demodulation for recognizing the modulation scheme of a transmitted signal without prior knowledge of the signal ground truth and cueing the software defined radio to choose the proper built in demodulator. Although significant research has been conducted on automatic modulation classification methods during the last two decades this research has been limited to single receiver situations where the classification performance and recognition of a successful rate have largely depended on channel quality and the receiver signal strength. These conditions do not ordinarily apply to non cooperative communications because in a non cooperative communication environment particularly in military applications the received signal at the single sensor is usually very weak so that the single sensor modulation classification of an unknown weak signal is usually difficult and unreliable.

Further prior art automatic modulation classification devices and methods do not adequately account for multiple receiver situations such as sensor networks whose uses have become more and more popular. Due to the dramatic and widespread use of sensor networks single sensor monitoring is now considered to be inadequate.

Thus there has been a long felt need for better signal monitoring techniques that lead to more effective modulation classification of weak signals without suffering from the limitations shortcomings and difficulties of single receiver configurations such as receiving weak signals and classifying the unknown weak signal.

In order to meet the long felt need for more effective signal monitoring and improved demodulation without suffering from the limitations shortcomings and difficulties of prior art configurations this invention s multi sensor signal fusion devices and methods combine signals from multiple sensors to provide descriptions of the monitored signals that are more accurate than single signal demodulation. Multi sensor signal fusion offers increased reliability and huge gains in overall performance compared to the single sensor demodulation so that the automatic modulation classification of weak signals in non cooperative communication environment could be stronger and more reliable. This invention s multi sensor signal fusion devices also take advantage of the latest techniques for improving geo location accuracy and eliminating the channel distortion of the transmitted signals.

Thus it is an object of the present invention to provide a multi sensor signal fusion apparatus for automatic modulation classification of an unknown signal.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a multi sensor signal fusion apparatus for automatic modulation classification that provides a more accurate description of an unknown signal.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a multi sensor signal fusion apparatus for automatic modulation classification of weak signals in a non cooperative communication environment that provides a more accurate description of an unknown signal.

These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention s multi sensor non cooperative demodulation device comprising a group of sensors a signal fusion sensor a means for signal demodulation and a means for automatic modulation classification. An output of the signal fusion sensor is sent to a means for modulation scheme classification to select the appropriate demodulation technique for demodulating the unknown signal to provide the necessary intelligence about the monitored signals to the user. This invention s multi sensor non cooperative demodulation device system and methods provide more accurate descriptions of monitored signals in a non cooperative environment without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art techniques and devices.

The present invention also contemplates a multi sensor signal fusion article of manufacture with a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for more accurate descriptions of monitored signals and methods for achieving higher accuracy descriptions of monitored signals in a non cooperative environment with multi sensor non cooperative demodulation.

In accordance with the present invention fusing multiple signals in connection with non cooperative demodulation affords a more effective demodulation without suffering from the limitations shortcomings and difficulties of single receiver configurations such as receiving weak signals and classifying the unknown weak signal. is a diagram illustrating a typical communication sensor network with an unknown transmitter T and N number of communication sensors denoted by R R . . . and R. The unknown transmitted signal is transmitted by a transmitter T and is collected by sensors R R . . . and Rnon cooperatively. In this diagram the sensors can communicate with each other cooperatively but they do not need to be fully connected. The sensors have no hand shaking with the unknown transmitter T.

An output estimate A is sent to a means for modulation scheme classification that selects the appropriate demodulation technique for demodulating the unknown signals s t such as PSK8 FSK2 and QAM16. The signal demodulation means classifies the unknown signals s t and provides a demodulated signal with improved fidelity and reliability allowing the user to better conduct hostile signal detection surveillance and monitoring.

This invention s multi sensor demodulation device eliminates signal variables such as the power of the channel noise disturbances and combined interference by taking advantage of the spatial diversity and randomness of those unknown terms and digitizing a fragment of the received signal r t to K samples. The resolution of the combined digitized signal depends upon the sampling rate. Since the sampling clocks at the receiving sensors and N are asynchronous and jittering in a given time frame the digitized receiving signals r kT have a small time offset referencing to the first receiving sensor . It is reasonable to assume the sampling time period Tis fixed within the analysis time frame the signal r kT can be described by Equation 3 where dis the time synchronization offset is a decimal number between 0.5Tand 0.5T which is a remainder related to time quantization time synchronization and time jittering. Since the communication between T and Ris non cooperative the channel equalization and signal recovery at each single sensor is very difficult.

For simplification denoting and and combining EQ. 2 and EQ. 3 results in the expression Equation 4 where i 1 2 . . . N and 0. In this simplified embodiment the first receiving sensor R or functions as a master and all other sensors R R . . . R 12 and N function as slaves passing the received signal packets from the local memories to the master in various relay routes for data fusion. The communications between the master and slaves can be wired or wireless.

The cooperation between the master and slaves is a critical element of the signal fusion aspect of the present invention. The signal transmission from slaves to the master is asynchronous in time since all data fragments are sent as packets. Furthermore when the communications between sensors are cooperative the channel distortion to the data transmission can be compensated for and the data can be recovered reliably by using various existing techniques such as error coding interleaving and equalization. The received packet at the master contains K signal samples which are described by 

Usually a preprocessing operation is needed to exclude the outlier packets based on the estimated signal to noise ratios SNRs and to normalize the packets based on the signal powers before estimating the delay factor and combining the signals. Thus the multi sensor demodulation device provides signal fusion automatic demodulation modulation scheme classification and the appropriate demodulation technique to effectively monitor the collected non cooperative unknown signals without suffering form the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art techniques and devices.

This invention can be implemented in either in hardware or software. is a software programming flowchart that illustrates the operation of software in this invention s multi sensor signal fusion article of manufacture with a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for more accurate descriptions of monitored signals. The software programming flowchart depicts the software operations of the signal preprocessing delay factor estimation and signal combining processes.

Referring now to when this invention is implemented with software the software operation begins with collecting signals in a means for collecting signals and storing data represented by Block where signals collected from multiple sensors are transmitted to a digital signal processing unit in the master and stored in the memory for processing. In Block a coarse SNR estimation is conducted in a means for coarse estimation in order to eliminate the outliers based on the SNR threshold. In a means for sorting represented by Block the SNRs are sorted from high to low and signals with a SNR below a given threshold are excluded. In Block a means for normalization normalizes signals above a given threshold and in a means for signal labeling represented by Block the signals are labeled from 1 to N that is r k j 1 2 . . . N based on the estimated values of SNRs. Here the index j is not related to the indices of the sensors. In Block a means for correlating receives the signal with the highest SNR r k and correlates it with r k to obtain the delay factor circumflex over m in Block . In Block a means for calculating averages r k and r k circumflex over m which are defined as r k and continuing the similar process as shown in for r k r k . . . r k finishes the looping process with the Block correlating means and Block delay factor resulting in a combined signal fed to a signal detection and modulation classification block for estimating the modulation scheme. Many of the variations of the multi sensor demodulation device also apply to this invention s article of manufacture software embodiment.

The signals are collected by sensor antennas and sent to Analog to Digital Converters and and then digitized by a local clock and where i i 1 2 . . . N and saved in a local memory module and . The master sensor collects the multiple signal packets from local memories then estimates coarse SNRs in a means for SNR estimation excludes outliers in a means for sorting and then normalizes all the signals in a means for signal fusion . A transmission delay factor is estimated and then the signals are correlated in a means for signal correlation . Interpolation and over sampling will be applied if needed. The signals are shifted and combined in a means for signal combining before feeding to the automatic modulation classification block . only demonstrates two sensors one is the master and the other is the slave. The same architecture works for a large sensor network with massive numbers of slaves. Parallel processing can be used for estimating the delay factor and combing signals. Multiple master sensors can be used to distribute the signal fusion process in accordance with the present invention. Many of the variations of the multi sensor demodulation device also apply to this invention s master slave sensor configurations.

Referring now to the drawings are charts illustrating simulation results of a single sensor and a multi sensor signal fusion with matched filters that demonstrate the advantages in using multi sensor signal fusion in accordance with this invention. The computer simulations were conducted by combining signals received from 100 receiving sensors. The SNR ratio and signal length at each single sensor is 0 dB and 512 samples respectively. The signals are modulated as 16 QAM with root raised cosine filters. The roll off factor is 0.25 and the over sample rate is 4 samples per symbol. In order to simplify the simulations all signals were digitized synchronously in time and modulation phase. The results of these computer simulations are shown in . The dots in are recovered symbols at a single sensor which are very noisy and are not recognizable for any constellation pattern. By contrast the multi sensor signal fusion dots are arranged in a much clearer constellation pattern of 16 clusters. Therefore the unknown signal is classified as QAM16 modulation scheme.

Matched filters were used in the and simulations. illustrates the simulation result of multi sensor signal fusion without matched filters because in most non cooperative communication operations the structure of the matched filter is not always known so the matched filter cannot be used in those situations. The dots in are the recovered symbols after multi sensor signal fusion with no matched filter. Although the 16 clusters in are not as concentrated as those in those skilled in the art should readily recognize them and classify the unknown signal as the QAM16 modulation scheme. After comparing the single sensor results with the and multi signal fusion results it is readily apparent that the single sensor modulation scheme at SNR 0 dB is almost impossible to discern while the and multi sensor results quite readily allow estimating the modulation scheme even if the SNR is quite low.

The multi sensor signal fusion technique can be developed in various implementations and embodiments. The concept applies to both analog and digital signals in any wired or wireless communication network with various architectures to a wide frequency range and to the channels in harsh environments.

This multi sensor non cooperative linear digital signal demodulation device comprises a coarse modulation parameter estimation unit and a fine modulation parameter estimation unit . The signals are collected by sensor antennas and combined by a signal fusion means not shown in this drawing. Referring now to the coarse estimation unit the fused multi sensor signal is used for coarse estimations of the center frequency in a means for center frequency estimation coarse estimations of bandwidth in a means for bandwidth estimation and coarse SNR estimations in a means for SNR estimation . The signal is down converted and filtered in a first band pass filter based on the coarse estimations of the center frequency and bandwidth. Then a filtered signal output is provided to a means for symbol rate estimation and a means for signal re sampling to the integer number of samples per symbol. The signal re sampling means sends a sampled filtered output to the fine modulation parameter estimation unit which functions as a master sensor.

Referring now to the fine estimation unit or master sensor the residual center frequency is removed from the sampled filtered output and the signal is mixed and filtered once again with a second band pass filter that is tighter than the first band pass filter . The twice filtered output signal is down sampled to the symbol rate if needed in a means for down sampling before channel estimation is performed in a means for channel estimation and before channel equalization occurs in a means for channel equalization . The modulation phase offset is estimated in means for phase estimation and corrected in a means for phase correction . A maximum likelihood algorithm software module estimates the most likely modulation scheme based on the estimated SNR and possible modulation schemes stored in a modulation schemes storage module . The confidence of the modulation estimation is measured in a means for estimation measurement and estimation results including modulation scheme SNR bandwidth symbol rate center frequency residual and estimation confidence are reported in final estimate represented by arrow once the multi sensor signal is obtained and combined. The automatic modulation classification does not depend on and is not limited to the signal fusion methods. In other words any existing or new automatic modulation classification methods can be used in this invention. Many of the variations of the multi sensor demodulation device also apply to this invention s multi sensor non cooperative linear digital signal demodulation embodiment.

Referring now to there is depicted a flow diagram of the steps of this invention s method for achieving increased fidelity and more reliable simulation of monitored non cooperative signals with multi sensor non cooperative demodulation comprising the steps of receiving non cooperative signals s t from an unknown transmission source in a group of sensors each of the sensors having a sampling clock and a local memory with the non cooperative signals having weak signals a given modulation and a given demodulation digitizing a group of received signals with the group of sensors providing digitized signals with the digitized signals including the multiple non cooperative signals and transmitting the digitized signals to a signal fusion sensor which are represented by Block . The step of providing a coarse SNR estimation from a means for coarse estimation to extract the weak signals based on a coarse SNR threshold is represented by Block and the step of sorting the digitized signals according to an SNR value below a given threshold in a means for sorting is represented by Block . The step of normalizing digitized signals with SNR above a given threshold is represented by Block and the step of labeling the high SNR digitized signals in a means for signal labeling based on multiple estimated SNR values is represented by Block .

This invention s method continues with the steps of generating a combined digitized signal with a maximum SNR value r k in a means for correlating represented by Block correlating the maximum SNR digitized signals with r k to obtain a delay factor circumflex over m represented by Block averaging r k and r k circumflex over m in a means for calculating represented by Block and transmitting a combined digitized signal to a means for automatic modulation for a modulation output estimate represented by Block . Block represents the final steps of sending the modulation output estimate to a means for modulation scheme classification that selects a demodulation technique by evaluating the modulation output estimate and the given demodulation generating a matching demodulation output in the modulation scheme classification means sending the matching demodulation output to a means for signal demodulation to generate a demodulated signal and simulating the non cooperative signals without unwanted channel noise disturbances and interference allowing a user to covertly identify and monitor the unknown transmission source with an improved fidelity and reliability. Many of the variations of the multi sensor demodulation device also apply to this invention s methods.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

