---

title: Dental compositions and initiator systems with color-stable amine electron donors
abstract: The invention features a hardenable dental composition, e.g., polymerizable dental restoratives, adhesives, etc., that contain a color-stable amine electron donor in an initiation system for initiating polymerization of the composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207238&OS=08207238&RS=08207238
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 08207238
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081029
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2008 081559 filed Oct. 29 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Application No. 60 984 470 filed Nov. 1 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its their entirety herein.

This invention relates to initiator systems for curing polymerizable monomers. More specifically this invention relates to polymerizable dental compositions that contain a photoinitiator system comprising a color stable amine electron donor that is activated upon exposure to visible light.

The restoration of teeth commonly involves the use of meth acrylate based free radically polymerizable resins that can be chemically cured or light cured. Chemical curing typically involves a redox system with a peroxide oxidizing agent and an amine reducing agent that produces free radicals that initiate polymerization. Light curing typically involves a photoinitiator system that produces free radicals upon exposure to light 400 1000 nm Photoinitiator systems also have been used in conjunction with cationically cured dental compositions for example epoxy based resins that are cured by way of a cationic ring opening polymerization curing mechanism. For example ternary photoinitiator systems comprising an iodonium salt a visible light absorber e.g. CPQ and an electron donor e.g. a polycyclic aromatic have been utilized for curing both free radically cured meth acrylate resins and cationically cured epoxy resins.

Many meth acrylate based composite dental restoratives employ ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate EDMAB as an electron donor in the photo initiator system. Although EDMAB provides good curing properties dental composite compositions using EDMAB usually require the addition of UV stabilizers such as benzotriazole derivatives e.g. TINUVIN P to achieve adequate color stability. Color stability is an important property for dental restorative compositions since it can impact the long term aesthetics of restorations made from the composition. Many amine electron donors such as EDMAB that are used in dental photo initiator systems are susceptible to color formation as a result of photo oxidation processes that occur after curing of the restorative. The addition of a UV stabilizer to the composition helps to prevent this color formation. Unfortunately UV stabilizers can reduce the fluorescence of the restorative. Since natural teeth fluoresce when irradiated with UV light restoratives that lack natural tooth fluorescence for example because of the presence of a UV stabilizer will become more noticeable and thus less aesthetically pleasing when viewed under UV radiation or black light conditions.

The present invention is directed to polymerizable dental compositions that contain a color stable amine as an electron donor in the initiator system. In one embodiment the composition includes a a polymerizable component such as an ethylenically unsaturated compound e.g. a meth acrylate and b an initiator system comprising at least one electron donor having the following formula I 

The electron donors of Formula I have superior color stability compared to other amine electron donors such as EDMAB that are commonly used in dental compositions. They are particularly well suited for use in for example tooth colored dental restorative compositions where it is generally desirable to avoid unwanted color formation after curing of the composition so that the final restoration retains a natural tooth like appearance that matches the color of surrounding teeth for as long as possible. In addition the use of a color stable electron donor may reduce or even eliminate the need for a UV stabilizer in the composition. Since UV stabilizers which are sometimes added to dental compositions to provide color stability can interfere with the fluorescence of the composition a reduction in the amount of UV stabilizer allows for better expression of fluorescence which in turn leads to higher aesthetics.

Suitable electron donors falling within Formula I above include but are not limited to the following compounds 

In addition to the color stable amine the photoinitiator system may further comprise a visible light sensitizer for example camphorquinone. Typically the photopolymerizable composition also comprises an iodonium salt for example diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate. The photoinitiator system may further include one or more additional electron donors. Suitable additional electron donors that may be combined with the color stable amine include for example polycyclic aromatic compounds such as anthracene derivatives biphenylene derivatives or combinations thereof.

The dental composition of the invention may also optionally include a filler system. In some implementations the filler system includes one or more silane treated nanofillers selected from nano silica nano zirconia zirconia silica nanoclusters other metal oxides or particulate glasses and combinations thereof.

The dental compositions of the invention are useful in a variety of dental and orthodontic applications including as dental restoratives dental adhesives dental cements cavity liners orthodontic adhesives dental sealants dental coatings and the like. These compositions may be used to prepare dental articles by hardening to form for example dental fillings dental mill blanks dental crowns dental prostheses orthodontic devices and the like.

The above summary is not intended to describe each embodiment or every implementation of the invention. Other embodiments features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description thereof and from the claims.

The term electron donor generally refers to a compound that has a substituent that can donate electrons. Suitable examples include but are not limited to a primary amino secondary amino tertiary amino hydroxy alkoxy aryloxy alkyl or combinations thereof.

By color stable is meant that a disk 1 mm thick by 30 mm in diameter of cured material has a delta E of 3 units or less as defined and measured using the Color Test Method described herein.

As used herein substantially free of UV stabilizers means that the the amount of UV stabilizer present in the composition is sufficiently low such that the fluorescence of the composition is not reduced below that of natural tooth fluorescence. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of UV stabilizer is low enough that it does not result in a visible reduction in the fluorescence of the composition when viewed under UV light. Typically the composition contains less than about 5 wt more typically less than about 1.5 wt and most typically less than about 0.75 wt of a UV stabilizer.

By natural tooth fluorescence is meant that when viewed under ultraviolet light the composition exhibits a fluorescence intensity resembling that of a natural tooth recognizing that fluorescence of natural teeth varies from subject to subject and the desired closeness of the match of the composition s fluorescence to that of a natural tooth depends on the precise situation and or aesthetic demands of the patient e.g. molars and other teeth that are not easily visible may not need to match the natural tooth fluorescence as closely as front teeth .

As used herein hardenable is descriptive of a material or composition that can be cured e.g. polymerized or crosslinked or solidified for example by removing solvent e.g. by evaporation and or heating heating to induce polymerization and or crosslinking irradiating to induce polymerization and or crosslinking and or by mixing one or more components to induce polymerization and or crosslinking.

By dental composition is meant an unfilled or filled e.g. a composite material e.g. a dental or orthodontic material that are capable of being applied or adhered to an oral surface. Dental compositions include for example adhesives e.g. dental and or orthodontic adhesives cements e.g. glass ionomer cements resin modified glass ionomer cements and or orthodontic cements primers e.g. orthodontic primers restoratives e.g. a restorative filling material liners sealants e.g. orthodontic sealants and coatings. Oftentimes a dental composition can be used to bond a dental article to a tooth structure. By hardenable dental composition is meant a dental composition such as a paste that can be hardened to form a dental article.

By dental article is meant an article that can be adhered e.g. bonded to an oral surface e.g. a tooth structure . Typically the dental article is a restored dentition or a portion thereof. Examples include restoratives replacements inlays onlays veneers full and partial crowns bridges implants implant abutments copings anterior fillings posterior fillings cavity liners sealants dentures posts bridge frameworks and other bridge structures abutments orthodontic appliances and devices and prostheses e.g. partial or full dentures .

As used herein the terms dental composition and dental article are not limited to compositions and articles used in dental applications but also include orthodontic compositions e.g. orthodontic adhesives and orthodontic devices e.g. orthodontic appliances such as retainers night guards brackets buccal tubes bands cleats buttons lingual retainers bite openers positioners and the like respectively.

By oral surface is meant a soft or hard surface in the oral environment. Hard surfaces typically include tooth structure including for example natural and artificial tooth surfaces bone tooth models dentin enamel cementum and the like

By filler is meant a particulate material suitable for use in the oral environment. Dental fillers generally have an average particle size of at most 100 micrometers.

By nanofiller is meant a filler having an average primary particle size of at most 200 nanometers. The nanofiller component may be a single nanofiller or a combination of nanofillers. Typically the nanofiller comprises non pyrogenic nanoparticles or nanoclusters. By nanostructured is meant a material in a form having at least one dimension that is on average at most 200 nanometers e.g. nanosized particles . Thus nanostructured materials refer to materials including for example nanoparticles as defined herein below aggregates of nanoparticles materials coated on particles wherein the coatings have an average thickness of at most 200 nanometers materials coated on aggregates of particles wherein the coatings have an average thickness of at most 200 nanometers materials infiltrated in porous structures having an average pore size of at most 200 nanometers and combinations thereof. Porous structures include for example porous particles porous aggregates of particles porous coatings and combinations thereof.

As used herein nanoparticles is synonymous with nanosized particles and refers to particles having an average size of at most 200 nanometers. As used herein for a spherical particle size refers to the diameter of the particle. As used herein for a non spherical particle size refers to the longest dimension of the particle. In certain embodiments the nanoparticles are comprised of discrete non aggregated and non agglomerate particles.

By nanocluster is meant an association of nanoparticles drawn together by relatively weak intermolecular forces that cause them to clump together i.e. to aggregate. Typically nanoclusters have an average size of at most 10 micrometers.

As used herein the term ethylenically unsaturated compound is meant to include monomers oligomers and polymers having at least one ethylenic unsaturation.

By polymerization is meant the forming of a higher weight material from monomers or oligomers. The polymerization reaction also can involve a cross linking reaction.

By polycyclic aromatic component is meant at least one polycyclic organic compound having two or more fused aromatic rings including their alkyl alkoxy aryl and aryloxy substituted derivatives. By fused is meant two aromatic rings with a shared side or with opposing sides directly joined by carbon carbon bonds.

As used herein the term meth acrylate is a shorthand reference to acrylate methacrylate or combinations thereof and meth acrylic is a shorthand reference to acrylic methacrylic or combinations thereof. As used herein meth acrylate functional compounds are compounds that include among other things a meth acrylate moiety.

The terms comprises comprising and variations thereof do not have a limiting meaning where these terms appear in the description and claims.

The recitation herein of numerical ranges by endpoints is intended to include all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 and 5 .

As used herein a or an means at least one or one or more unless otherwise indicated. In addition the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a composition containing a compound includes a mixture of two or more compounds. As used in this specification and the appended claims the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients measurement of properties such as contrast ratio and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the foregoing specification and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by those skilled in the art utilizing the teachings of the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviations found in their respective testing measurements.

The invention features the use of a class of aromatic amines as electron donors in initiator systems used in polymerizable compositions such as polymerizable dental compositions e.g. dental restoratives and adhesives. These aromatic amines exhibit excellent color stability when the composition is cured thereby eliminating or reducing the need for a UV stabilizer to be included in the formulation. A reduction in the amount of UV stabilizer in the composition results in an increased expression of fluorescence which allows the composition to more closely mimic natural tooth fluorescence. The initiator systems of the invention are therefore particularly useful in curable resin filler composite materials used in restorative dentistry where the long term aesthetic quality of the material is often important. Such compositions typically include in addition to the initiator system a polymerizable component one or more fillers and or other additives depending on the desire application.

The dental compositions of the present invention are hardenable typically due to the presence of a polymerizable component. In some embodiments the composition can be hardened e.g. polymerized by conventional photopolymerization and or chemical polymerization techniques prior to applying it to an oral surface. In other embodiments the composition can be hardened e.g. polymerized by conventional photopolymerization and or chemical polymerization techniques after it has been applied to an oral surface.

In certain embodiments the compositions are photopolymerizable i.e. the compositions contain a photoinitiator system that upon irradiation with actinic radiation initiates the polymerization or hardening of the composition.

Such photopolymerizable compositions can be free radically polymerizable or cationically polymerizable. In other embodiments the compositions are chemically hardenable i.e. the compositions contain a chemical initiator i.e. initiator system that can polymerize cure or otherwise harden the composition without dependence on irradiation with actinic radiation. Such chemically hardenable compositions are sometimes referred to as self cure compositions.

The polymerizable component typically includes one or more ethylenically unsaturated compounds with or without acid functionality. Examples of useful ethylenically unsaturated compounds include acrylic acid esters methacrylic acid esters hydroxy functional acrylic acid esters hydroxy functional methacrylic acid esters and combinations thereof.

The compositions especially in photopolymerizable implementations may include compounds having free radically active functional groups that may include monomers oligomers and polymers having one or more ethylenically unsaturated groups. Suitable compounds contain at least one ethylenically unsaturated bond and are capable of undergoing addition polymerization. Such free radically polymerizable compounds include mono di or poly meth acrylates i.e. acrylates and methacrylates such as methyl meth acrylate ethyl acrylate isopropyl methacrylate n hexyl acrylate stearyl acrylate allyl acrylate glycerol triacrylate ethyleneglycol diacrylate diethyleneglycol diacrylate triethyleneglycol dimethacrylate 1 3 propanediol di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane triacrylate 1 2 4 butanetriol trimethacrylate 1 4 cyclohexanediol diacrylate pentaerythritol tetra meth acrylate sorbitol hexacrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl meth acrylate bis 1 2 acryloxy p ethoxyphenyldimethylmethane bis 1 3 acryloxy 2 hydroxy p propoxyphenyldimethylmethane ethoxylated bisphenol A di meth acrylate and trishydroxyethyl isocyanurate trimethacrylate meth acrylamides i.e. acrylamides and methacrylamides such as meth acrylamide methylene bis meth acrylamide and diacetone meth acrylamide urethane meth acrylates the bis meth acrylates of polyethylene glycols preferably of molecular weight 200 500 copolymerizable mixtures of acrylated monomers such as those in U.S. Pat. No. 4 652 274 Boettcher et al. acrylated oligomers such as those of U.S. Pat. No. 4 642 126 Zador et al. and poly ethylenically unsaturated carbamoyl isocyanurates such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 648 843 Mitra and vinyl compounds such as styrene diallyl phthalate divinyl succinate divinyl adipate and divinyl phthalate. Other suitable free radically polymerizable compounds include siloxane functional meth acrylates as disclosed for example in WO 00 38619 Guggenberger et al. WO 01 92271 Weinmann et al. WO 01 07444 Guggenberger et al. WO 00 42092 Guggenberger et al. and fluoropolymer functional meth acrylates as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 076 844 Fock et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 356 296 Griffith et al. EP 0373 384 Wagenknecht et al. EP 0201 031 Reiners et al. and EP 0201 778 Reiners et al. . Mixtures of two or more free radically polymerizable compounds can be used if desired.

The polymerizable component may also contain hydroxyl groups and ethylenically unsaturated groups in a single molecule. Examples of such materials include hydroxyalkyl meth acrylates such as 2 hydroxyethyl meth acrylate and 2 hydroxypropyl meth acrylate glycerol mono or di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane mono or di meth acrylate pentaerythritol mono di and tri meth acrylate sorbitol mono di tri tetra or penta meth acrylate and 2 2 bis 4 2 hydroxy 3 methacryloxypropoxy phenyl propane bisGMA . Suitable ethylenically unsaturated compounds are also available from a wide variety of commercial sources such as Sigma Aldrich St. Louis. Mixtures of ethylenically unsaturated compounds can be used if desired.

In certain embodiments the polymerizable component includes PEGDMA polyethyleneglycol dimethacrylate having a molecular weight of approximately 400 bisGMA UDMA urethane dimethacrylate GDMA glycerol dimethacrylate TEGDMA triethyleneglycol dimethacrylate bisEMA6 as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 030 606 Holmes and or NPGDMA neopentylglycol dimethacrylate . Various combinations of these hardenable components can be used if desired.

When the composition contains an ethylenically unsaturated compound without acid functionality it is generally present in an amount of at least 5 by weight more typically at least 10 by weight and most typically at least 15 by weight ethylenically unsaturated compounds without acid functionality based on the total weight of the unfilled composition. The compositions of the present invention typically include at most 95 by weight more typically at most 90 by weight and most typically at most 80 by weight ethylenically unsaturated compounds without acid functionality based on the total weight of the unfilled composition.

In some embodiments the polymerizable component may include one or more ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality. As used herein ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality is meant to include monomers oligomers and polymers having ethylenic unsaturation and acid and or acid precursor functionality. Acid precursor functionalities include for example anhydrides acid halides and pyrophosphates. The acid functionality can include carboxylic acid functionality phosphoric acid functionality phosphonic acid functionality sulfonic acid functionality or combinations thereof.

Ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality include for example unsaturated acidic compounds such as glycerol phosphate mono meth acrylates glycerol phosphate di meth acrylates hydroxyethyl meth acrylate e.g. HEMA phosphates bis meth acryloxyethyl phosphate meth acryloxypropyl phosphate bis meth acryloxypropyl phosphate bis meth acryloxy propyloxy phosphate meth acryloxyhexyl phosphate bis meth acryloxyhexyl phosphate meth acryloxyoctyl phosphate bis meth acryloxyoctyl phosphate meth acryloxydecyl phosphate bis meth acryloxydecyl phosphate caprolactone methacrylate phosphate citric acid di or tri methacrylates poly meth acrylated oligomaleic acid poly meth acrylated polymaleic acid poly meth acrylated poly meth acrylic acid poly meth acrylated polycarboxyl polyphosphonic acid poly meth acrylated polychlorophosphoric acid poly meth acrylated polysulfonate poly meth acrylated polyboric acid and the like and may be used as components in the hardenable component system. Also monomers oligomers and polymers of unsaturated carbonic acids such as meth acrylic acids aromatic meth acrylated acids e.g. methacrylated trimellitic acids and anhydrides thereof can be used. Certain preferred compositions of the present invention include an ethylenically unsaturated compound with acid functionality having at least one P OH moiety.

Certain of these compounds are obtained for example as reaction products between isocyanatoalkyl meth acrylates and carboxylic acids. Additional compounds of this type having both acid functional and ethylenically unsaturated components are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 872 936 Engelbrecht and U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 347 Mitra . A wide variety of such compounds containing both the ethylenically unsaturated and acid moieties can be used. Mixtures of such compounds can be used if desired.

Additional ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality include for example polymerizable bisphosphonic acids as disclosed for example in International Publication No. WO 2004 060327 Abuelyaman et al. AA ITA IEM copolymer of acrylic acid itaconic acid with pendent methacrylate made by reacting AA ITA copolymer with sufficient 2 isocyanatoethyl methacrylate to convert a portion of the acid groups of the copolymer to pendent methacrylate groups as described for example in Example 11 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 347 Mitra and those recited in U.S. Pat. No. 4 259 075 Yamauchi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 499 251 Omura et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 537 940 Omura et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 539 382 Omura et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 530 038 Yamamoto et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 458 868 Okada et al. and European Pat. Application Publication Nos. EP 712 622 Tokuyama Corp. and EP 1 051 961 Kuraray Co. Ltd. .

Compositions of the present invention can also include combinations of ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality as described for example in International Publication No. WO 2006 020760 Luchterhandt et al. . The compositions may also include a mixture of ethylenically unsaturated compounds both with and without acid functionality.

When the composition contains an ethylenically unsaturated compound with acid functionality it is generally present in an amount of at least 1 by weight more typically at least 3 by weight and most typically at least 5 by weight ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality based on the total weight of the unfilled composition. The compositions of the present invention typically include at most 80 by weight more typically at most 70 by weight and most typically at most 60 by weight ethylenically unsaturated compounds with acid functionality based on the total weight of the unfilled composition.

In typical implementations of the invention a free radically polymerizable component is combined with a photoinitiator to provide a photopolymerizable composition. Suitable photoinitiators i.e. photoinitiator systems that include one or more compounds for polymerizing free radically photopolymerizable compositions include binary and tertiary systems. Typical tertiary photoinitiators include an iodonium salt a photosensitizer also referred to herein as a visible light sensitizer or visible light absorber and an electron donor compound.

The photoinitiator system of the invention includes a color stable amine electron donor that has at least one aromatic group and a hydrocarbyl group with an alpha hydrogen. The amine also typically has at least one hydrocarbyl group with an electron withdrawing group beta to the amine and a hydrogen on the same carbon atom beta to the amine.

Suitable electron donors falling within Formula I and Formula II above include but are not limited to the following compounds 

The above compounds may be synthesized using known methods such as those described by Adamson et al. JCSOA9 J. Chem. Soc. 1949 spl. 144 152 which is incorporated herein by reference.

As described above the initiator system of the invention contains a visible light absorber i.e. photosensitizer and may also optionally contain an iodonium salt and or one or more additional electron donors such as a polycyclic aromatic compound etc. The iodonium salt should be soluble in the composition and preferably is shelf stable meaning it does not spontaneously promote polymerization when dissolved therein in the presence of the visible light sensitizer and the electron donor compound. Accordingly selection of a particular iodonium salt may depend to some extent upon the particular resin visible light sensitizer and electron donor that are chosen. Suitable iodonium salts include but are not limited to the diaryl iodonium salts e.g. diphenyliodonium chloride diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate diphenyliodonium tetrafluoroborate tolylcumyliodonium tetrakis pentafluorophenyl borate and the like.

The visible light sensitizer should be partly or fully soluble in the photopolymerizable composition free of functionalities that would substantially interfere with the polymerization process and capable of light absorption somewhere within the range of wavelengths between about 400 and about 1000 nanometers. Typical visible light sensitizers contain one or more carbonyl functional groups. Suitable photosensitizers include monoketones and diketones that absorb some light within a range of 400 nm to 520 nm preferably 450 nm to 500 nm Particularly suitable compounds include alpha diketones that have light absorption within a range of 400 nm to 520 nm even more preferably 450 to 500 nm Exemplary photosensitizer compounds include but are not limited to camphorquinone benzil furil 3 3 6 6 tetramethylcyclohexanedione phenanthraquinone 1 phenyl 1 2 propanedione and other 1 aryl 2 alkyl 1 2 ethanediones cyclic alpha diketones and the like.

As described above the photoinitiator system may also contain additional electron donors. Suitable additional electron donors include but are not limited to polycyclic aromatic compounds e.g. biphenylenes naphthalenes anthracenes benzanthracenes pyrenes azulenes pentacenes decacyclenes and derivatives such as acenaphthenes and combinations thereof.

The individual components of the photoinitiator system are provided in photopolymerizingly effective amounts i.e. amounts effective to yield a photoinitiator system that can initiate photopolymerization of the polymerizable component or more preferably that can accelerate the rate of polymerization . Typically the visible light sensitizer is present at about 0.05 5.0 weight percent based on the overall photopolymerizable unfilled composition more typically at about 0.10 2.0 weight percent. The iodonium salt is typically present at about 0.05 10.0 weight percent more typically at about 0.20 5.0 weight percent and most typically at about 0.40 3.0 weight percent based on the overall unfilled composition. The color stable amine electron donor and or additional electron donor s is typically present at about 0.01 5.0 weight percent more typically about 0.05 1.0 weight percent and most typically about 0.05 0.50 weight percent based on the overall unfilled composition.

Although the compositions of the invention are typically photopolymerizable in certain embodiments the compositions of the present invention are chemically hardenable i.e. the compositions contain a chemically hardenable component and a chemical initiator i.e. initiator system that can polymerize cure or otherwise harden the composition without dependence on irradiation with actinic radiation. In some embodiments of the invention a combination of light cure and self cure systems may be used.

The chemically hardenable compositions may include redox cure systems that include a polymerizable component e.g. an ethylenically unsaturated polymerizable component and redox agents that include an oxidizing agent and a reducing agent. Suitable polymerizable components redox agents optional acid functional components and optional fillers that are useful in the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. Publication Nos. 2003 0166740 Mitra et al. and 2003 0195273 Mitra et al. .

The reducing and oxidizing agents should react with or otherwise cooperate with one another to produce free radicals capable of initiating polymerization of the resin system e.g. the ethylenically unsaturated component . This type of cure is a dark reaction that is it is not dependent on the presence of light and can proceed in the absence of light. The reducing and oxidizing agents are preferably sufficiently shelf stable and free of undesirable colorization to permit their storage and use under typical dental conditions. They should be sufficiently miscible with the resin system and preferably water soluble to permit ready dissolution in and discourage separation from the other components of the composition.

Useful reducing agents include ascorbic acid ascorbic acid derivatives and metal complexed ascorbic acid compounds as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 501 727 Wang et al. amines especially tertiary amines such as 4 tert butyl dimethylaniline aromatic sulfinic salts such as p toluenesulfinic salts and benzenesulfinic salts thioureas such as 1 ethyl 2 thiourea tetraethyl thiourea tetramethyl thiourea 1 1 dibutyl thiourea and 1 3 dibutyl thiourea and mixtures thereof. Other secondary reducing agents may include cobalt II chloride ferrous chloride ferrous sulfate hydrazine hydroxylamine depending on the choice of oxidizing agent salts of a dithionite or sulfite anion and mixtures thereof. Preferably the reducing agent is an amine.

Suitable oxidizing agents will also be familiar to those skilled in the art and include but are not limited to persulfuric acid and salts thereof such as sodium potassium ammonium cesium and alkyl ammonium salts. Additional oxidizing agents include peroxides such as benzoyl peroxides hydroperoxides such as cumyl hydroperoxide t butyl hydroperoxide and amyl hydroperoxide as well as salts of transition metals such as cobalt III chloride and ferric chloride cerium IV sulfate perboric acid and salts thereof permanganic acid and salts thereof perphosphoric acid and salts thereof and mixtures thereof.

It may be desirable to use more than one oxidizing agent or more than one reducing agent. Small quantities of transition metal compounds may also be added to accelerate the rate of redox cure. In some embodiments it may be preferred to include a secondary ionic salt to enhance the stability of the polymerizable composition as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0195273 Mitra et al. .

The reducing and oxidizing agents are present in amounts sufficient to permit an adequate free radical reaction rate. This can be evaluated by combining all of the ingredients of the composition except for the optional filler and observing whether or not a hardened mass is obtained.

Typically the reducing agent if used at all is present in an amount of at least 0.01 by weight and more typically at least 0.1 by weight based on the total weight including water of the components of the composition. Typically the reducing agent is present in an amount of no greater than 10 by weight and more typically no greater than 5 by weight based on the total weight including water of the components of the composition.

Typically the oxidizing agent if used at all is present in an amount of at least 0.01 by weight and more typically at least 0.10 by weight based on the total weight including water of the components of the composition. Typically the oxidizing agent is present in an amount of no greater than 10 by weight and more typically no greater than 5 by weight based on the total weight including water of the components of the composition.

The reducing or oxidizing agents can be microencapsulated as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 154 762 Mitra et al. . This will generally enhance shelf stability of the composition and if necessary permit packaging the reducing and oxidizing agents together. For example through appropriate selection of an encapsulant the oxidizing and reducing agents can be combined with an acid functional component and optional filler and kept in a storage stable state. Likewise through appropriate selection of a water insoluble encapsulant the reducing and oxidizing agents can be combined with an FAS glass and water and maintained in a storage stable state.

A redox cure system can be combined with other cure systems including photoinitiator systems or with a composition such as described U.S. Pat. No. 5 154 762 Mitra et al. .

The compositions of the present invention may optionally contain one or more fillers. Fillers may be selected from one or more of a wide variety of materials suitable for incorporation in compositions used for dental applications such as fillers currently used in dental restorative compositions and the like.

The choice of the filler affects important properties of the dental composite such as its appearance radiopacity and physical and mechanical properties. Appearance is affected in part by adjustment of the amounts and relative refractive indices of the ingredients of the composite thereby allowing alteration of the translucence opacity or pearlescence of the composite. In this way the appearance of the dental material can if desired be made to closely approximate the appearance of natural dentition.

Radiopacity is a measurement of the ability of the dental composite to be detected by x ray examination. Frequently a radiopaque dental composite will be desirable for instance to enable the dentist to determine whether or not a dental restoration remains sound. Under other circumstances a non radiopaque composite may be desirable. Suitable fillers for radiopaque formulations are described in EP A2 0 189 540 EP B 0 238 025 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 306 926 B1.

The amount of filler that is incorporated into the composite referred to herein as the loading level and expressed as a weight percent based on the total weight of the dental material will vary depending on the type of filler the curable resin and other components of the composition and the end use of the composite.

For some dental materials such as sealants the compositions of the invention can be lightly filled e.g. having a loading level of less than about 40 weight percent or unfilled. In such implementations the viscosity of the dental material is sufficiently low to allow its penetration into pits and fissures of occlusal tooth surfaces as well as into etched areas of enamel thereby aiding in the retention of the dental material. In applications where high strength or durability are desired e.g. anterior or posterior restoratives prostheses crown and bridge cements artificial crowns artificial teeth and dentures the loading level can be as high as about 95 weight percent. For most dental restorative and prosthetic applications a loading level is generally at least 40 weight percent and more typically is between about 60 and 90 weight percent.

The filler s used in the compositions of the invention is typically finely divided. The filler s can have a unimodal or polymodal e.g. bimodal particle size distribution. The maximum particle size the largest dimension of a particle generally the diameter of the filler s is typically less than 20 micrometers more typically less than 10 micrometers and most typically less than 5 micrometers. The average particle size of the filler s is typically less than 0.1 micrometers and more typically less than 0.075 micrometer.

The filler s may be an inorganic material. It may also be a crosslinked organic material that is insoluble in the resin system and is optionally filled with inorganic filler. The filler s should in any event be nontoxic and suitable for use in the mouth. The filler s can be radiopaque or radiolucent. The filler typically is substantially insoluble in water.

Examples of suitable inorganic fillers are naturally occurring or synthetic materials including but not limited to quartz i.e. silica SiO nitrides e.g. silicon nitride glasses derived from for example Zr Sr Ce Sb Sn Ba Zn and Al feldspar borosilicate glass kaolin talc titania low Mohs hardness fillers such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 695 251 Randklev and submicron silica particles e.g. pyrogenic silicas such as those available under the trade designations AEROSIL including OX 50 130 150 and 200 silicas from Degussa Corp. Akron Ohio and CAB O SIL M5 silica from Cabot Corp. Tuscola Ill. . In some embodiments the silica or nanosilica particles are non pyrogenic i.e. comprise non fumed silica. Examples of suitable organic filler particles include filled or unfilled pulverized polycarbonates polyepoxides and the like.

The filler may be acid reactive non acid reactive or a combination thereof Suitable non acid reactive filler particles include quartz submicron silica nano silica nano zirconia and non vitreous microparticles of the type described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 503 169 Randklev . Mixtures of these non acid reactive fillers are also contemplated as well as combination fillers made from organic and inorganic materials. Silane treated zirconia silica Zr Si filler is especially useful in certain embodiments. In some implementations of the invention the filler system may contain a combination of at least one filler comprising heavy metal oxide nanoparticles e.g. zirconia nanoparticles and or at least one filler comprising non heavy metal oxide particles e.g. silica nanoparticles and or at least one filler comprising a heavy metal oxide and a non heavy metal oxide e.g. clusters of zirconia and silica nanoparticles .

Metallic fillers may also be incorporated such as particulate metal filler made from a pure metal such as those of Groups IVA VA VIA VIIA VIII IB or IIB aluminum indium and thallium of Group IIIB and tin and lead of Group IVB or alloys thereof. Conventional dental amalgam alloy powders typically mixtures of silver tin copper and zinc may also optionally be incorporated. The particulate metallic filler preferably has an average particle size of about 1 micron to about 100 microns more preferably 1 micron to about 50 microns. Mixtures of these fillers are also contemplated as well as combination fillers made from organic and inorganic materials. Fluoroaluminosilicate glass fillers either untreated or silanol treated are particularly preferred. These glass fillers have the added benefit of releasing fluoride at the site of dental work when placed in the oral environment.

In some implementations the composition may include acid reactive filler. Suitable acid reactive fillers include metal oxides glasses and metal salts. Typical metal oxides include barium oxide calcium oxide magnesium oxide and zinc oxide. Typical glasses include borate glasses phosphate glasses and fluoroaluminosilicate FAS glasses. FAS glasses are particularly preferred. The FAS glass if present typically contains sufficient elutable cations so that a hardened dental composition will form when the glass is mixed with the components of the hardenable composition. The glass also typically contains sufficient elutable fluoride ions so that the hardened composition will have cariostatic properties. Such glass can be made from a melt containing fluoride alumina and other glass forming ingredients using techniques familiar to those skilled in the FAS glassmaking art. The FAS glass if present is typically in the form of particles that are sufficiently finely divided so that they can conveniently be mixed with the other cement components and will perform well when the resulting mixture is used in the mouth.

Generally the average particle size typically diameter for FAS glass used in such compositions is no greater than about 12 micrometers typically no greater than 10 micrometers and more typically no greater than 5 micrometers as measured using for example a sedimentation analyzer. Suitable FAS glasses will be familiar to those skilled in the art and are available from a wide variety of commercial sources and many are found in currently available glass ionomer cements such as those commercially available under the trade designations VITREMER VITREBOND RELY X LUTING CEMENT RELY X LUTING PLUS CEMENT PHOTAC FIL QUICK KETAC MOLAR and KETAC FIL PLUS 3M ESPE Dental Products St. Paul Minn. FUJI II LC and FUJI IX G C Dental Industrial Corp. Tokyo Japan and CHEMFIL Superior Dentsply International York Pa. . Mixtures of fillers can be used if desired.

The surface of the filler particles can also be treated with a coupling agent in order to enhance the bond between the filler and the resin. Suitable coupling agents include gamma methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane gamma mercaptopropyltriethoxysilane gamma aminopropyltrimethoxysilane and the like. Silane treated zirconia silica ZrO2 SiO2 fillers and nanofillers silane treated silica fillers and nanofillers silane treated zirconia fillers and nanofillers and combinations thereof are especially suitable for certain restorative compositions.

Other suitable fillers are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 387 981 Zhang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 572 693 Wu et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 730 156 Windisch and U.S. Pat. No. 6 899 948 Zhang as well as in International Publication No. WO 03 063804 Wu et al. . Filler components described in these references include nanosized silica particles nanosized metal oxide particles and combinations thereof. Nanofillers are also described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0252413 Kangas et al. 2005 0252414 Craig et al. and 2005 0256223 Kolb et al. .

For some embodiments of the present invention that include filler e.g. dental adhesive compositions the compositions typically include at least 1 by weight more typically at least 2 by weight and most typically at least 5 by weight filler based on the total weight of the composition. For such embodiments compositions of the present invention typically include at most 40 by weight more typically at most 20 by weight and most typically at most 15 by weight filler based on the total weight of the composition.

For other embodiments e.g. wherein the composition is a dental restorative or an orthodontic adhesive compositions of the present invention typically include at least 40 by weight more typically at least 45 by weight and most typically at least 50 by weight filler based on the total weight of the composition. For such embodiments compositions of the present invention typically include at most 90 by weight more typically at most 80 by weight even more typically at most 70 by weight filler and most typically at most 50 by weight filler based on the total weight of the composition.

Optionally compositions of the present invention may contain solvents e.g. alcohols e.g. propanol ethanol ketones e.g. acetone methyl ethyl ketone esters e.g. ethyl acetate other nonaqueous solvents e.g. dimethylformamide dimethylacetamide dimethylsulfoxide 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone or mixtures thereof.

In some implementations of the invention the compositions are non aqueous. In other implementation the compositions may optionally contain water. The water can be distilled deionized or plain tap water. If present the amount of water should be sufficient to provide adequate handling and mixing properties and or to permit the transport of ions particularly in a filler acid reaction. In such embodiments water represents at least about 1 wt and more preferably at least about 5 wt of the total weight of ingredients used to form the hardenable composition. Generally water represents no greater than about 75 wt and more preferably no greater than about 50 wt of the total weight of ingredients used to form the hardenable composition.

If desired the compositions of the invention may contain additives such as indicators dyes including photobleachable dyes pigments inhibitors accelerators viscosity modifiers wetting agents antioxidants tartaric acid chelating agents buffering agents stabilizers diluents and other similar ingredients that will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Surfactants for example nonionic surfactants cationic surfactants anionic surfactants and combinations thereof may optionally be used in the compositions. Useful surfactants include non polymerizable and polymerizable surfactants. Additionally medicaments or other therapeutic substances can be optionally added to the dental compositions. Examples include but are not limited to fluoride sources whitening agents anticaries agents e.g. xylitol remineralizing agents e.g. calcium phosphate compounds and other calcium sources and phosphate sources enzymes breath fresheners anesthetics clotting agents acid neutralizers chemotherapeutic agents immune response modifiers thixotropes polyols anti inflammatory agents antimicrobial agents antifungal agents agents for treating xerostomia desensitizers and the like of the type often used in dental compositions. Combinations of any of the above additives may also be employed. The selection and amount of any one such additive can be selected by one of skill in the art to accomplish the desired result without undue experimentation.

The dental compositions of the present invention can be prepared by combining all the various components using conventional mixing techniques. The resulting composition may optionally contain fillers solvents water and other additives as described herein. Typically photopolymerizable compositions of the invention are prepared by simply admixing under safe light conditions the components of the inventive compositions. Suitable inert solvents may be employed if desired when effecting this mixture. Any solvent may be used which does not react appreciably with the components of the inventive compositions. Examples of suitable solvents include acetone dichloromethane acetonitrile and lactones. A liquid material to be polymerized may be used as a solvent for another liquid or solid material to be polymerized. Solventless compositions can be prepared by simply dissolving the iodonium complex salt sensitizer and electron donor in the polymerizable resin with or without the use of mild heating to facilitate dissolution.

The amounts and types of each ingredient in the dental material should be adjusted to provide the desired physical and handling properties before and after polymerization. For example the polymerization rate polymerization stability fluidity compressive strength tensile strength and durability of the dental material typically are adjusted in part by altering the types and amounts of polymerization initiator s and if present the loading and particle size distribution of filler s . Such adjustments typically are carried out empirically based on previous experience with dental materials. When the dental material is applied to a tooth the tooth can optionally be pre treated with a primer and or an adhesive by methods known to those skilled in the art.

The compositions can be supplied in a variety of forms including one part systems and multi part systems e.g. two part powder liquid paste liquid paste powder and paste paste systems. Other forms employing multi part combinations i.e. combinations of two or more parts each of which is in the form of a powder liquid gel or paste are also possible. The various components of the composition may be divided up into separate parts in whatever manner is desired however in a redox multi part system one part typically contains the oxidizing agent and another part typically contains the reducing agent though it is possible to combine the reducing agent and oxidizing agent in the same part of the system if the components are kept separated for example through use of microencapsulation. Also for those implementations in which the dental composition is a resin modified glass ionomer RMGI the polyacid acid reactive filler and water generally would not all be present in the same part although any two of these may be grouped together in the same part along with any combination of other components.

The components of the composition can be included in a kit where the contents of the composition are packaged to allow for storage of the components until they are needed.

The components of the composition can be mixed and clinically applied using conventional techniques. A curing light is generally required for the initiation of photopolymerizable compositions. The compositions may be in the form of composites or restoratives that adhere very well to dentin and or enamel. Optionally a primer layer can be used on the tooth tissue on which the hardenable composition is used.

The invention encompasses a wide variety of dental compositions which may be filled or unfilled. Exemplary dental materials include dental restoratives e.g. composites fillings sealants inlays onlays crowns and bridges orthodontic appliances and orthodontic adhesives. Such dental materials include direct aesthetic restorative materials e.g. anterior and posterior restoratives prostheses adhesives and primers for oral hard tissues sealants veneers cavity liners orthodontic bracket adhesives for use with any type of bracket such as metal plastic and ceramic crown and bridge cements artificial crowns artificial teeth dentures and the like. These dental materials are used in the mouth and are disposed adjacent to natural teeth. The phrase disposed adjacent to as used herein refers to the placing of a dental material in temporary or permanent bonding e.g. adhesive or touching e.g. occlusal or proximal contact with a natural tooth.

The features and advantages of this invention are further illustrated by the following examples which are in no way intended to be limiting thereof. The particular materials and amounts thereof recited in these examples as well as other conditions and details should not be construed to unduly limit this invention. Unless otherwise indicated all parts and percentages are on a weight basis all water is deionized water and all molecular weights are weight average molecular weight.

Unless otherwise noted all reagents and solvents were or can be obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corp. St. Louis Mo.

Initial and final colors were determined using a HunterLab Ultrascan XE Spectrocolorimeter Reston Va. . The spectrocolorimeter was standardized using a Diffuse 8 light trap followed by a Diffuse 8 instrument standard U3322 L 98.99 a 0.29 b 0.21 . The instrument standard was calibrated by direct comparison to HunterLab Master Transfer Standards which are traceable to NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology . In this method a small area view was used with a port size of 25.4 millimeters 1 inch in diameter. Cured samples were obtained as described below for each Example. Color data L a b were measured immediately after each sample was cured. The sample was then aged by submersion in water at 37 C. for 24 hours while it was illuminated with a xenon lamp. Color data were then measured on the sample. Delta E was calculated as the total color change in the three color dimensions and is described by the following equation Delta E Square root L L a a b b where subscripts 1 indicate initial cured state and 2 indicate final aged state.

Diametral tensile strength and compressive strength were determined according to ANSI ADA specification No. 27 1993 . Each composition was injected into a glass tube having an inside diameter of 4 millimeters and then the packed tube was then capped with silicone rubber plugs. The composition was then compressed axially at approximately 0.28 MPa approximately 40.62 pounds per square inch for 5 minutes. While under compression the sample was then light cured for 90 seconds by exposure to a Model XL 1500 dental curing light manufactured by 3M ESPE Dental Products St. Paul Minn. and was then irradiated for 90 seconds in a Model UNIXS light curing box manufactured by Heraeus Kulzer Hanau Germany . The cured sample was then cut crosswise using a diamond saw to afford discs having a length of approximately 2 millimeters for the DTS test or approximately 8 millimeters for the CS test . The discs were stored in distilled water at 37 C. for 24 hours prior to testing. The DTS and CS tests were carried out on a Model 4505 Instron tester manufactured by Instron Corp. Norwood Mass. with a 10 kilonewton kN load cell and at a crosshead speed of 1 meter per minute. Five discs of each cured composition were prepared and tested for DTS. Six discs of each cured composition were prepared and tested for CS.

The compositions of Examples 1 2 and Comparative Examples 1 2 were prepared by first combining the components in the proportions as identified in Table 1 to provide resin mixtures A D. In Table 1 all percentages are weight percentages and n a means that the component was not included in the composition.

The compositions of Examples 1 2 and Comparative Examples 1 2 were prepared by combining a portion of each of Resins A D 19.746 g each respectively with silica filler 6.671 g Zr Si filler 63.529 g and LUMILUX 0.054 g using a Model DAC 150 FVZ SpeedMixer manufactured by FlackTek Inc. Landrum S.C. at 3000 rpm. A disk of each composition having a thickness of one millimeter and a diameter of thirty millimeters was prepared and cured for two minutes in a hydraulic press obtained from Carver Inc. Wabash Ind. at 68.95 MPa 10 000 pounds per square inch pressure. The press had been fitted with fiber optic cables to direct light to the disk from a Model A20500 ACE light source Schott North America Inc. Auburn N.Y. . The disk was removed from the press and was further cured for 90 seconds using a stroboscopic light curing device UNISX Heaeus Kulzer Inc. Armonk N.Y. . The color of each cured disk was measured before and after illumination during immersion in water at 37 C. as described above. The Delta E values for each of the compositions were found to be 6.2 Example 1 6.0 Example 2 8.4 Comparative Example 1 and 9.1 Comparative Example 2 .

The compositions of Example 3 and Comparative Example 3 were prepared by first combining the components in the proportions as identified in Table 2 to provide resin mixtures E and F. The composition of Comparative Example 4 was a commercially available composite dental restorative available under the trade designation FILTEK SUPREME UNIVERSAL RESTORATIVE from 3M ESPE Dental Products St. Paul Minn. . In Table 2 all percentages are weight percentages and n a means that the component was not included in the composition.

The compositions of Example 3 and Comparative Example 3 were prepared by combining a portion of each of Resins E and F 2.588 g each respectively with silica filler 0.896 g Zr Si filler 8.525 g and LUMILUX 0.0117 g using a Model DAC 150 FVZ SpeedMixer manufactured by FlackTek Inc. Landrum S.C. at 3000 rpm. A disk of each of these compositions and of the composition of Comparative Example 4 was cured essentially as described above. The color of each cured disk was measured before and after illumination during immersion in water at 37 C. as described above. The Delta E values for each of the compositions were found to be 4.31 Example 3 9.1 Comparative Example 3 and 5.6 Comparative Example 4 . The diametral tensile strength DTS and compressive strength CS of each of the cured samples of Example 3 and Comparative Example 4 were determined as described above. The DTS values were found to be 69.63 MPa Example 3 and 63.82 MPa Comparative Example 4 . The CS values were found to be 336.7 MPa Example 3 and 335.2 MPa Comparative Example 4 .

The complete disclosures of the patents patent documents and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each were individually incorporated. Various modifications and alterations to this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention. It should be understood that this invention is not intended to be unduly limited by the illustrative embodiments and examples set forth herein and that such examples and embodiments are presented by way of example only with the scope of the invention intended to be limited only by the claims set forth herein as follows.

