---

title: Providing paid access to remote web service in an electronic marketplace
abstract: A method, system, and computer-readable medium is described for facilitating interactions between computing systems, such as by providing an electronic Web service (“WS”) marketplace via which third-party WS providers make their WSes available to third-party WS consumers who locate and purchase access to those WSes via the electronic marketplace. Some or all available WSes may have associated use prices and or non-price use conditions, and if so access to those WSes may be provided only if a consumer requesting access provides appropriate payment and otherwise satisfies the specified use conditions. In some situations, WS consumers may also purchase subscriptions to provide later access to registered WSes. This abstract is provided to comply with rules requiring it, and is submitted with the intention that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07729954&OS=07729954&RS=07729954
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 07729954
owner_city: Incline Village
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 766 697 filed Jan. 27 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 433 835 and entitled Providing a Marketplace for Web Services. 

The following disclosure relates generally to facilitating interactions between computing systems and more particularly to facilitating such interactions by acting as an intermediary such as an electronic marketplace via which Web service providers make their Web services available and via which Web service consumers locate purchase access to and access those Web services in accordance with prices and use conditions specified for those Web services.

Various mechanisms exist to allow computers and executing software applications to interact. For example remote procedure call RPC protocols have long existed that allow a program on one computer to cause a program on another computer to be executed and various object oriented architectures such as CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture and DCOM Distributed Component Object Model provide similar capabilities. In addition a variety of middleware programs have been implemented to connect separate applications often of distinct types and from unrelated sources to allow communication. For example various EDI Electronic Data Interchange networks exist that provide standard mechanisms to allow a computer system of one user of the network to send data to a computer system of another user of the network.

The widespread popularity of the World Wide Web Web has provided additional opportunities for computers to inter communicate. For example much current Web use involves users interactively requesting Web pages from Web servers e.g. via executing Web browser applications of the users and receiving the requested information in response. In addition to such interactive user specification of requested information there is also growing use of the Web to support the programmatic interaction of remote applications to exchange information via defined APIs application program interfaces referred to as Web services.

Web services allow heterogeneous applications and computers to interact and can be defined and implemented using a variety of underlying protocols and techniques. For example some Web service implementations return data in XML eXtensible Markup Language format using HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol in response to a Web service invocation request specified as a URI Uniform Resource Identifier such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator that includes a specified operation and one or more query parameters. In other implementations additional underlying protocols are used for various purposes such as SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol for standard message exchange WSDL Web Services Description Language for description of service invocations and UDDI Universal Description Discovery and Integration service for discovery of available services.

Although Web services allow various applications and computers to interact the current implementations and uses of Web services have various problems. For example current Web service implementations are typically designed with only a very limited number of predefined applications interacting and do not typically address a variety of issues for wide scale interaction of providers and potential consumers of Web services. In addition current Web service implementations do not typically provide effective means for potential consumers to discover or locate Web services that are desired or that may be of interest such as via current UDDI based implementations that may identify a connection point for one or more Web services but that do not typically provide any of a variety of other types of information related to the Web services to assist potential consumers e.g. indications of usage by others such as a ranking relative to other Web services indications of comments and or reviews by others information related to the past provision of the Web service and or the provider of the Web service such as average up time and response time etc. . Current Web service implementations also do not typically provide sufficient assurance to potential consumers that prospective providers of Web services will reliably and accurately provide desired Web services do not typically provide sufficient security for providers of Web services to ensure that their Web services will be made available only to authorized consumers and only in accordance with any conditions specified by the providers do not typically provide easy to use mechanisms to allow Web service providers to collect specified payment for the use of their Web services by consumers do not typically allow Web service providers to manage and monitor the use of their Web services do not typically allow Web service consumers to monitor the use of provided Web services on their behalf etc.

Thus it would be beneficial to provide a solution that addresses these and other problems associated with the use of Web services and or that otherwise facilitates the interaction of computer systems and executing applications.

A software facility is described that facilitates interactions between computing systems such as by in some embodiments providing an electronic Web service WS marketplace via which third party WS providers make their WSes available to third party WS consumers who locate and purchase access to those WSes via the electronic marketplace.

In some embodiments the WS marketplace WSM allows third party WS providers to register their WSes with the electronic marketplace so as to make those WSes available to some or all WSM users who are potential consumers of the WSes. In particular in some embodiments a WS provider may specify pricing information for the use of their WS and or other WS use conditions at the time of WS registration. The WS providers also specify the manner s in which their WSes are to be invoked as well as various description information about their WSes that may be provided to potential consumers to assist in their determination of whether to use the WS. Once WSes have been registered at the WSM they can be made available to potential WS consumers in various ways as discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments a WS provider may also need to first register with the WSM as a user before registering their WSes e.g. to provide contact information information on how payments to the WS provider are to be made etc. .

As discussed in greater detail below various types of use prices for using WSes can be specified such as on a per use basis for a subscription that is valid for a specified length of time and or number of uses etc. Various non price use conditions can similarly be specified in some embodiments such as restrictions on types of consumers allowed to use the WS restrictions on types of uses allowed for the WS and or for any information provided by its use restrictions on how frequently the WS can be used by a particular consumer or by all consumers etc. In particular in some embodiments each WS provider can specify one or more use prices for each WS that they register and the WSM then sets one or more consumer access prices for those WSes that are each based on one or more of the specified use prices e.g. access prices that are the same as the use prices or instead that include additional fees charged by the WSM or a reduction in fees provided by the WSM .

After a potential WS consumer has identified a registered WS of interest the potential WS consumer can interact with the WSM to obtain access to that WS such as by providing an access fee payment based on an access price if any for the WS and by satisfying any other specified use conditions for the WS. In some embodiments some or all consumers obtain access to registered WSes by purchasing subscriptions to those WSes for later use and in some embodiments non subscription use of registered WSes is provided. For example one time or limited non subscription uses of a WS may be provided for a variety of reasons such as to allow an evaluation or test use of a WS in order to determine whether to purchase additional uses for use of registered WSes that are free to allow anonymous access without a defined subscription etc. As discussed in greater detail below various types of subscriptions can be provided in various embodiments including one time use subscriptions subscriptions for a specified length of time and or number of uses etc. In addition in some embodiments a WS consumer may need to first register with the WSM as a user before obtaining access to registered WSes e.g. to provide contact information payment source information formatting and protocol preferences for WS invocation response information etc. .

When a consumer s access to a WS is authorized by the WSM but not provided immediately e.g. by purchasing a subscription the consumer will in some embodiments receive authorization information for use with later requests for the authorized access e.g. a unique subscription ID for a purchased subscription or a transaction ID for later occurring non subscription transactions . If so the later requests from the consumer to provide the authorized access may include providing the previously received authorization information and may further be supplied or specified in a manner indicated to the consumer at the time of original access authorization.

After receiving an access request from a consumer for current use of a registered WS the WSM determines whether the use of the WS by the consumer is authorized such as based on any authorization information supplied with the request. In addition in some embodiments the WSM may further determine at the time of requested WS use whether any payment obligations and specified use conditions are currently satisfied for an invocation of the WS. If the WSM determines that the WS use is authorized the WSM interacts with the provider of the WS to invoke the WS and obtain any response information. The WSM then provides some or all of the response information to the consumer.

In some embodiments the WSM performs additional formatting of the response information before providing it to the consumer. The information formatting can be performed in various ways and for various purposes such as to act as a translator adapter that accommodates previously specified preferences of the WS consumer e.g. information format and or protocol preferences requested from the WS consumer when they previously registered with the WSM to combine the response information with other information e.g. response information from other invoked WSes and to obfuscate information related to the invocation of the WS e.g. the specific invocation request information about the WS provider information about the time of invocation of the WS etc. .

In addition in some embodiments the WSM may maintain one or more caches or other storage mechanisms to store response information from WS invocations and if so may in some situations provide such stored response information to consumers rather than invoking the WSes to obtain additional response information e.g. when the stored data was recently received and is of a type that is not time sensitive and or subject to rapid change such response information may in some embodiments include not only information provided by the WS as the product of the invocation but also status or other response messages e.g. for a WS that does not otherwise provide information in response to its invocation or instead an indication that the WS does not provide any response. Such caching may provide benefits to both WS consumers e.g. by providing response information even if a WS provider is not currently available by providing response information more rapidly than if the WS was dynamically invoked etc. and to WS providers e.g. by providing to WS consumers a service invocation volume higher than the WS provider can actually handle by providing service to WS consumers even if the WS provider has temporarily throttled some or all requests to its WS etc. .

As previously noted potential WS consumers can identify WSes of interest in a variety of ways. In some embodiments the WSM allows potential WS consumers to search the registered WSes in various ways such as based on the type of service and or type of data provided on the use price on the WS provider on the WS description etc. In addition in some embodiments the registered WSes may be categorized into groups of related WSes e.g. in a hierarchical manner with one or more levels of sub categories and if so potential WS consumers may be able to browse within specified categories and sub categories and or may be able to limit their search to specified categories and sub categories. Moreover a variety of types of WS related information may be provided to potential WS consumers such as by providing lists or other indications of top ranked and or top rated WSes indications of recommended WSes e.g. personalized to the current potential WS consumer based on information known about that consumer etc.

In addition after identifying one or more WSes of potential interest a potential WS consumer may be able to review additional information about each WS such as by receiving a Web page specific to a WS that includes description information for the WS and that optionally includes various other information about the WS e.g. pricing information information about the WS provider etc. . In some embodiments such WS specific information may also include a variety of other types of information including reviews of the WS by other WS consumers that have used the WS and or summaries of such reviews indications of rankings and or ratings of the WS relative to other WSes based on various criteria e.g. number of uses a recent trend in use consumer specified ratings etc. indications of similar WSes e.g. based on category and or otherwise related WSes e.g. other WSes by the same WS provider other WSes that have been used by other WS consumers that have previously used this WS etc. .

In some embodiments some or all of the described actions by WS providers and or WS consumers are performed via user interactions with a Web site for the WSM such as a Web site dedicated to providing a marketplace for Web services or instead a Web site of a more general Web store that provides various types of items e.g. products and or services that include the Web services. Alternatively in some embodiments some or all interactions by the WS providers and or WS consumers are instead performed by programs acting on behalf of the WS providers or consumers programmatically interacting with one or more computing systems of the WSM such as via defined APIs e.g. via Web services provided by the WSM to implement the underlying functionalities for the WSM in some embodiments such APIs are based on the use of XML over HTTP e.g. as part of the REpresentational State Transfer or REST distributed interaction model that focuses on resources while in other embodiments the APIs may be based on the use of SOAP and or other protocols related to Web services.

In some embodiments the WSM further provides a capability for WS providers and or WS consumers to monitor and manage their interactions with the WSM such as via a portal. For example a registered WS provider may in some embodiments monitor their registered WSes such as to determine the current level and or a historical level of the use of those WSes by WS consumers or instead to determine a current status of their WSes e.g. to verify that their WSes are currently operating properly . In addition WS providers may be able to manage various aspects of their registered WSes such as to modify pricing information and other use condition information or to dynamically specify current throttling conditions for the use of their WSes e.g. to limit volume and or type of use of the WSes for a specified period of time or until specified conditions are satisfied or until further notice . WS providers may also review and or manage their user account information such as to change their current contact information or to review payment amounts currently owed to the WS provider by the WSM. In a similar manner registered WS consumers may monitor and manage their WS subscriptions or other WS access authorizations e.g. to review recent use of their subscriptions and the amount of previously purchased or otherwise approved subscription use remaining to dynamically specify current throttling or other restriction conditions for the use of their subscriptions etc. as well as review and manage their user account e.g. to modify payment source information or to authorize additional WS subscriptions or other WS use such as by purchasing WSM provided points that can later be used to pay for or authorize WS use .

As one example of another type of information that can be specified by WS providers and or WS consumers in some embodiments e.g. via the WSM portal or during registration various types of notification requests may be specified for various types of information. For example a WS provider may want to receive a standard email notification when the average volume of invocations of their WSes over a specified period of time exceeds a specified threshold and may further wish to receive an urgent alert notification when one of their WSes goes offline or otherwise generates an error condition. Similarly WS consumers may wish to receive notifications based on use or current status of their subscriptions on the current availability of specified WSes and or specified categories of WSes on the current status of their user account information e.g. the amount of WSM points remaining etc. Such notification requests may include specifications of how to perform the notification as well as the conditions that trigger the notification when they are satisfied. As the WSM operates it monitors defined notification conditions in order to determine when notifications are appropriate and performs the requested notifications in the manner specified.

In addition while a WS subscription is in some embodiments limited to the particular WS consumer that created the subscription in other embodiments a WS subscription may be shared among multiple different users. For example in some embodiments a WS consumer may specify one or more affiliate users for one or more of their WS subscriptions with each affiliate user given specified rights to use those WS subscriptions e.g. authorization to make a specified total number of WS invocation requests based on the subscription or a specified limit on the volume of such WS invocation requests a specification of conditions under which use of the subscription by an affiliate is allowed or disallowed etc. . In addition in some situations a WS consumer may create a WS subscription on behalf of an indicated application or a specified copy or instance of such an application such as an application developed and or distributed by the WS consumer and may specify that some or all users of that application are authorized to use that WS subscription in some or all situations. Conversely in some embodiments such an application developer or distributor may instead incorporate one or more WS invocation requests as part of their application whether or not in conjunction with a subscription by that WS consumer but may instead limit some or all uses of those WS invocation requests by the application users such that those users may instead need to provide their own payment and or subscriptions to those WSes in order to use that functionality of the application.

In some embodiments composite Web services may also be registered with the WSM and used by WS consumers with each composite WS able to invoke one or more other WSes. In addition in some embodiments a composite WS may include specified logic related to how and when to invoke the other WSes e.g. based on a scripting language such as to provide conditional invocation of one WS based on the response information received from another WS. As one example a composite WS may invoke two or more other WSes e.g. WSes from WS providers unrelated to the creator of the composite WS in order to obtain response information that is then aggregated to provide the response information for the composite WS while as another example some or all of the WSes specified for the composite WS are provided by the composite WS creator and the composite WS specifies logic such that one of the specified WSes is invoked only if appropriate information is received from earlier invocation of another of the WSes e.g. if that received information is to be used as part of that later invocation . In yet another example a composite WS may invoke a single WS e.g. from a WS provider other than the composite WS creator in order to encapsulate that single WS using additional information and or logic specified as part of the composite WS. In some embodiments any third party can create and register composite WSes that invoke other WSes provided by other WS providers while in other embodiments various restrictions may be imposed on the creation of such composite WSes e.g. to limit composite WS creation to WS providers that provide at least one or all of the WSes that are part of the composite WS . In addition in some embodiments such composite WSes can have their own specified pricing information and other use conditions while in other embodiments such pricing and use conditions will instead be automatically determined based on the pricing and use conditions of the underlying WSes invoked by the composite WS.

Moreover in some embodiments various third parties can interact with the WSM to obtain various additional functionality for themselves and or to provide such additional functionality to other users. For example in some embodiments external computing systems may provide WS coordination services to other users with the computing systems defining WS coordination requests and interacting with the WSM to request satisfaction of those requests. Such coordination requests may in some embodiments specify other registered WSes to be invoked and or specify various logic to be executed thus providing capabilities similar to those of registered composite WSes without having to register those WS coordinations. The coordination requests may be supplied to the WSM for execution e.g. for a fee charged by the WSM or instead based on the specified pricing information for the WSes invoked by the coordination and may be represented in various ways in various embodiments e.g. as data structures code modules templates mappings portable code etc. . In other embodiments such third party coordination services may instead execute the coordination logic for coordinations such as by interacting with the WSM to individually invoke each WS for the coordination as specified by the logic for the coordination and then combining any resulting response information to be provided to the requester of the coordination e.g. a user of the coordination service such as for a fee .

In addition to coordination services third parties can obtain and provide a variety of other types of functionality by interacting with the WSM. For example in some embodiments some third parties may provide WSM agents that interact with the WSM to provide additional functionality to users such as to monitor various aspects of the operation of the WSM in order to provide information or notifications to the user e.g. in situations in which the WSM does not provide corresponding notification capabilities for the type of information being monitored by the agent or instead to replicate a capability available from the WSM for a user who is not eligible to receive the information from the WSM . A variety of other types of interactions with the WSM can similarly be provided to enable various other types of additional functionality and capabilities.

As previously noted in some embodiments some or all of the registered WSes may have specified pricing information such that WS consumers provide payment to use those WSes. In some embodiments a variety of types of billing mechanisms are provided for WS consumers. For example as previously noted in some embodiments WS consumers may be able to purchase WS subscriptions that can then be used at later times and in some embodiments the WSM may sell non subscription WS access. In addition in some embodiments billing occurrences are based on prior specified Service Level Agreements SLAs with certain WS consumers and or based on the Quality of Service QoS requested by and or actually provided to the consumer. For example a provider of a WS may specify a use price for that WS that is based on one or more specified QoS levels provided by that WS provider in conjunction with the access to that WS e.g. a maximum response time a minimum level of accuracy of response information etc. such as the only use price for that WS or instead one of multiple use prices e.g. with one or more of the other use prices having other specified QoS levels and or no QoS levels and if so access to that WS that is purchased based on that use price e.g. a subscription purchased for an access fee based on that use price is performed in accordance with those specified QoS levels when possible. Similarly an operator of the WSM may in some embodiments specify an access price for each of one or more of the registered WSes that is based on one or more specified QoS levels provided by the WSM in conjunction with access to those WSes e.g. a maximum response time a minimum level of accuracy of response information etc. such as the only access price for a WS or instead one of multiple access prices for the WS e.g. based on one or more specified use prices for the WS with one or more of the other access prices having other specified QoS levels provided by the WSM and or no QoS levels and if so access to that WS that is purchased based on that access price is performed in accordance with those specified QoS levels when possible. In some embodiments if access to a WS is not provided to a consumer in accordance with specified QoS levels purchased by that consumer and or is not provided in accordance with any previously specified SLAs for that consumer various additional actions may be taken to compensate the consumer e.g. by providing a payment credit by not counting that access as part of the paid access for the consumer etc. and or to correct any problems e.g. to correct any internal mechanisms of the electronic marketplace such as by notifying appropriate personnel associated with the electronic marketplace to correct performance of the provider of the WS such as by notifying appropriate personnel associated with the WS provider and or by providing a financial incentive to the WS provider such as by delaying or reducing payment to that WS provider etc. .

Moreover in some embodiments WS consumers can obtain WSM provided points that can be later used to purchase subscriptions and other WS access for various WSes such points may be a WS payment option that WS consumers can purchase or otherwise earn e.g. as a reward for later use with a specified group of WSes and or WS providers e.g. all WSes and WS providers . The points for a WS may be identified to a potential WS consumer in various ways in various embodiments e.g. displayed or otherwise accessible as a subscription or access price for some or all WSes whether in addition to or instead of one or more prices in governmental currencies and the determination of how many points are needed to purchase access to a WS subscription or other WS access may similarly be determined in various ways in various embodiments e.g. by specifying and using a standard exchange rate for all WSes by allowing each WS and or WS provider to have an individualized specified exchange rate such as one specified at registration time for the WS and or WS provider or by dynamically determining appropriate WSM points for a WS based on a variety of factors when the price is provided to a potential WS consumer such as a current usage rate of the WS other current conditions such as a current day time information about the WS consumer etc. . Similarly in other embodiments the WSM may accumulate the costs of some or all of the WS uses for a consumer over a specified period of time such as to provide a single monthly bill for all use of a specified WS or of all WSes.

In addition in some embodiments the WSM provides various security and or privacy mechanisms to ensure that only authorized WS providers can register and provide WSes and or that only authorized WS consumers can subscribe to and or access registered WSes. Such security and or privacy can be provided in a variety of ways including the use of passwords public key encryption digital certificates etc. In addition the WSM may use various security and or privacy mechanisms with respect to management monitoring interactions by WS consumers and or WS providers such as to provide information to users only when they are authorized to receive it and to allow modification of WS related information and of subscriptions only when authorized. Similarly in embodiments in which affiliates of WS consumers or other users are allowed at least some access to subscriptions of the WS consumer various security and or privacy mechanisms may be employed to ensure that the affiliates are authorized to receive any benefits and information provided to them.

Furthermore in addition to having WSes provided by third party WS providers and to providing access to registered WSes for third party WS consumers in some embodiments the WSM itself may act as a WS provider and or WS consumer for one or more WSes such as an alternative to other third party provided WSes or instead to provide WSes that are not otherwise available to WS consumers. In addition various other capabilities provided and used by the WSM may also be implemented as WSes such as a WSM API available to WS providers and or WS consumers as well as internal capabilities used by the WSM e.g. determining whether a specific subscription request for a WS satisfies the specified use conditions for that WS by invoking an internal WS that provides the service of comparing the specified use conditions and requested use information to determine whether the specified use conditions are satisfied .

In addition as discussed in greater detail below the WSM can also provide a variety of other types of functionalities and capabilities as described.

For illustrative purposes some embodiments of the software facility are described below in which a specific WSM embodiment provides various specific types of capabilities and functionalities with respect to various specific types of WSes and uses various specific types of user interfaces and other interactions to provide those functionalities and capabilities. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the techniques of the invention can be used in a wide variety of other situations including with services and items other than Web services and that the invention is not limited to the exemplary details provided.

In this example embodiment various information about a number of available WSes is displayed to the potential customer with the WSes divided into several WS categories as shown. A variety of information is provided for each indicated WS including a name an indication of the WS provider that is the source for the WS one or more prices corresponding to use of the WS any specified use conditions for the WS and a description of the WS. In this example those types of information are provided by a WS provider when registering a WS and each WS further has a unique item ID that is automatically generated by the WSM although in other embodiments such unique item IDs may not be used. As is shown a variety of types of pricing models and use conditions are illustrated in this example.

The example user interface screen in also includes a section that provides various personalized recommendations of registered WSes to the current user such as based on previously specified interests of the user and or other automatic determinations of WSes of potential interest e.g. based on usage history for the user . In this illustrated example each of the recommended WSes is illustrated with various associated information such as a corresponding use price and WS provider and each additionally has an associated user selectable control with which the WS can be added to the user s shopping cart and a user selectable control with which the user can request to immediately subscribe to the WS. This illustrated user interface screen further includes various information related to user reviews of one or more WSes e.g. of a WS selected in another portion of the screen or of a particular WS indicated to the user including a user selectable control with which the user can select to provide their own review and rating of the WS e.g. after use of the WS and a section that includes various review and rating information for the WS provided by one or more other users. While these various types of WS related information are illustrated on a single screen in this example in other embodiments some or all of the information could be provided at other times and in other manners e.g. by providing review and rating information for a WS on a detail screen for that WS such as the screen illustrated in .

In addition in some embodiments the user interface may include one or more screens that allow the user to specify security and or privacy information as desired. For example a WS consumer may be able to prohibit or otherwise restrict access to WSes on their behalf e.g. for all or a specified subset of their subscriptions based on various user configurable settings including based on IP addresses associated with WSes on developer tokens associated with users making WS access requests on referring URLs on subscriber ID via cookies etc. A WS provider may similarly be able to prohibit or otherwise restrict access to WSes that they provide in a variety of ways and WS providers and WS consumers may in some embodiments be able to specify various security and or privacy information for use in accessing information about their accounts and provided and or accessed WSes.

In particular WS providers interact with a front end interface of the WSM system to register WSes as well as in some embodiments to initially register themselves as users of the WSM system e.g. as WS provider users . In the illustrated embodiment the front end interface may be a Web site with which the user interacts and or an API e.g. a WS API with which external computing systems and executing applications interact although in other embodiments other types of front end interfaces may alternatively be used.

In this illustrated embodiment after the front end receives a registration request for a WS provider or for a WS available from the provider corresponding information is forwarded to an Access Controller component of the WSM system to determine whether to approve the request e.g. based on whether sufficient appropriate information was provided and or on whether other predefined criteria have been satisfied and indicates to the front end whether the request was approved. In addition the Access Controller component stores information about the registered WS or WS provider for later use in a WS database or Consumer Provider User Account database respectively.

In a similar manner WS consumers interact with the front end to obtain information about available WSes to subscribe to or otherwise request access to available WSes and in some embodiments to initially register with the WSM as a user e.g. a WS consumer user prior to such subscription access requests. As with registration requests from WS providers the front end forwards information regarding WS consumer registration subscription and access requests to the Access Controller for determination of whether to approve the requests and the Access Controller responds to the front end in an appropriate manner. The Access Controller also stores information about registered consumers in the Account database and about registered subscriptions to WSes and other WS access authorizations in the WS subscription database .

In other embodiments some or all such information could instead be stored in other manners such as to maintain separate account database information for WS consumers and WS providers or to instead maintain subscription information along with other user information in the Account database. In addition in embodiments in which WS providers and or WS consumers can specify notification requests e.g. at the time of user registration such information is also forwarded to the Access Controller which stores the information as appropriate in the WS Notification Conditions database for later use.

In the illustrated embodiment the WSM system further includes a WSM Portal component with which WS consumers and WS providers can interact to obtain information about their accounts and to perform other interactions with the WSM system such as to monitor and or manage WS related information. In some embodiments the WSM Portal interacts with the front end interface to perform requested retrievals and modifications of information while in other embodiments instead interacts directly with the various databases and as appropriate.

When a WS access request is received from a WS consumer and the Access Controller approves the request the front end interacts with a WS Invoker component to perform invocation of one or more WSes as appropriate such as based on information retrieved from the WS database and or received from the front end. The WS Invoker component then interacts with one or more WS providers as appropriate to invoke the appropriate WSes and to receive response information. In some embodiments the WS Invoker stores received response information in an optional cache for later use such as to use in lieu of a WS invocation in certain situations as appropriate. In addition in some embodiments one or more of the WS providers from which the WS Invoker may invoke WSes can be one or more optional internal WSM WS providers . After obtaining the appropriate response information whether from a WS provider or from the cache the WS Invoker component returns the response information to the front end. In some embodiments the front end interface performs additional processing on the received response information before providing it to the requesting WS consumer such as to aggregate information from multiple invoked WSes and or to format the response information in accordance with previously specified preferences for the WS consumer.

In addition in the illustrated embodiment the WS Invoker component also provides information to a WS Transaction Monitor component regarding some or all processed WS invocation requests such as for all requests whether satisfied from the cache or from a WS provider or instead only for successful requests to an external WS provider. In the illustrated embodiment the WS Transaction Monitor component in turn stores information about the transactions in a WS Transaction database as appropriate. In addition in the illustrated embodiment the WS Transaction Monitor component reviews information in the WS Notification Conditions database to determine whether transactions and or other status information have triggered one or more specified notification conditions such as after each transaction or instead on a periodic basis. When the WS Transaction Monitor component determines that one or more notifications have been triggered the component forwards corresponding information to a Customer Provider Notifier component to perform notifications to WS consumers and or WS providers as appropriate.

When a received request by the Access Controller and or WS Invoker corresponds to payment that needs to be obtained e.g. for subscription requests or other WS access requests one or more of the components interact with a WS Payment Module component in the illustrated embodiment to provide information about the corresponding request or transaction although in other embodiments the front end could instead interact directly with the Payment Module. The Payment Module then determines appropriate payment that is needed e.g. by receiving the information from another component and or by retrieving appropriate information from one or more of the databases such as the WS Subscription database WS database and or Account database and performs the necessary functions to obtain the payment such as in accordance with previously provided payment source information and any specified preferences. The Payment Module also stores information about the payments obtained from WS consumers and any corresponding payments owed to WS providers in a WS Payments database .

As previously noted in some embodiments one or more third party systems or users may additionally be present to interact with the WSM system such as via the front end interface. As discussed in greater detail elsewhere such third party systems may provide a variety of types of services and functionalities including coordination agent based monitoring etc.

An embodiment of the WSM system is executing in memory and it interacts with the other computing systems over the network using the network connection e.g. via the Internet and or the World Wide Web . The other computing systems can similarly execute various information as part of the interactions such as a Web browser executing in memory of the WS consumer computing systems to allow users of the systems to interact with the WSM system and such as a WS server executing in memory of the WS provider computing systems to provide Web service functionality. Such other computing systems also include a variety of I O devices in the illustrated embodiment including network connections to communicate with each other and the server computing system over the network. In addition in the illustrated embodiment a variety of datastores e.g. databases and are present on the storage for use by the WSM system although in other embodiments some or all such databases may instead be located elsewhere and or be organized in other manners.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustrated computing systems are merely illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Computing system may be connected to other devices that are not illustrated including through one or more networks such as the Internet or via the Web. More generally the server and other computing systems may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact in the manners described including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers electronic organizers television based systems and various other consumer products that include inter communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the WSM system components illustrated in may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them can be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing device via inter computer communication. Some or all of the WSM system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive. The WSM system components and data structures can also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The routine begins at step where an indication is received from a WS provider to register a WS. The routine continues in the illustrated embodiment to step to determine whether the WS provider is a registered user of the WSM and if not continues to step to attempt to register the WS provider e.g. by obtaining contact information for the WS provider information about how to provide payment to the WS provider based on use of the provider s registered WSes by WS consumers etc. . After step the routine continues to step to determine whether the registration of the WS provider was successful. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS provider was already registered as a user or did not need to be registered as a user the routine continues to step to receive an indication from the WS provider of various information corresponding to the WS being registered such as a name one or more use prices a description for use by potential consumers other non price use conditions and invocation details for the WS. In some embodiments such information may instead be received as part of step .

After step the routine continues to step to determine whether to accept the WS registration such as based on an automated determination e.g. on whether appropriate information has been supplied and any predefined criteria had been satisfied and or a manual determination e.g. by a user representing the WSM based on whether the WS is appropriate for the WSM . In step the routine determines whether the registration was accepted and if not continues to step to generate a registration denial message for the WS provider. If it was instead determined in step that the registration was accepted the routine continues instead to step to assign a unique item ID to the WS for use by the WSM system in tracking various information related to the WS. The routine then continues to step to optionally receive one or more of various types of information related to the WS such as any use throttling conditions e.g. limits on how many invocation requests to allow for the service availability conditions e.g. times at which the WS is not available or other conditions under which the WS is available or not available notification conditions related to the WS etc. The routine then continues to step to store the various received information related to the WS in one or more databases as appropriate and then makes the registered WS available to potential consumers in accordance with any availability conditions. In step the routine then generates a registration acceptance message for the WS provider.

After steps or the routine continues to step to send the generated message to the WS provider and optionally provides additional information related to the registration e.g. the assigned item ID . In step the routine then determines whether to register more WSes for this WS provider and if so returns to step . If not the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS provider registration was not successful the routine returns to step . If the routine instead determines not to continue the routine continues to step and ends. While not illustrated here in some embodiments the routine could additionally use various security information and or mechanisms such as to ensure that only authorized WS providers can register new WSes. In addition as previously described in some embodiments the routine may be provided as part of a user s interaction with a Web site or other interactive interface while in other embodiments the routine may be performed as part of a programmatically accessed API.

The routine begins at step where an indication is received from a WS consumer of a WS of interest. The routine continues to step to determine whether the WS consumer is a registered user of the WSM system and if not continues to step to attempt to register the WS consumer e.g. by obtaining contact information payment source information information about any associated applications and or affiliates if the consumer is a developer of one or more application programs preferences for how to receive information etc. . The routine then continues to step to determine whether the registration of the consumer was successful. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS consumer was already registered or that registration of the consumer was not needed the routine continues to step to receive information about a WS use request from the WS consumer although in other embodiments such information may instead have been received in step . As an example the WS use request may include an indication of a unique item ID associated with the WS an indication of the type of use request e.g. a subscription request preference information for how to receive response information from the WS payment information if needed for the WS a type of intended use of the WS etc.

After step the routine continues to step to determine whether to accept the WS use request such as based on whether the request contains sufficient appropriate information on whether any needed payment can be obtained based on the request or other information for the WS consumer on whether the WS consumer and or request satisfies any other specified use conditions for the WS whether the use request would exceed any throttling condition specified for the WS etc. The routine continues to step if it was determined in step that the request was accepted in order to determine whether the use request was a subscription request for later use. If so the routine continues to step to generate a subscription ID corresponding to the subscription for later use by the WS consumer during access requests corresponding to the subscription. In step the routine then retrieves details about how the consumer should request the WS and about the format of any response information. In step the routine then optionally receives one or more of a variety of types of information related to the subscription such as any notification conditions related to the subscription any application and or affiliates associated with the subscription any subscription use throttling and or availability conditions e.g. to restrict it use by affiliates etc.

After step or if it was instead determined in step that the use request was a non subscription request for immediate access the routine continues to step to obtain payment for the subscription or immediate access if needed such as based on any payment source information received or previously associated with the WS consumer. After step the routine continues to step to determine whether any needed payment was received and if so continues to step to again determine whether the use request was a subscription for later use. If so the routine continues to step to store any received information for the subscription and to send the generated subscription ID and the retrieved details about how to request the WS to the WS consumer for later use. If it was instead determined in step that the use request was a non subscription request for immediate access the routine continues to step to execute a routine to invoke the Web service to obtain response information as appropriate. In step any response information received in step is then sent to the WS consumer.

After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue and if not continues to step and ends. If it was instead determined in step to continue or in step that the WS consumer registration was not successful or in step that the WS use request was not accepted or in step that any needed payment was not received the routine returns to step .

As with the WS registration routine the illustrated routine can be provided in various ways in various embodiments including as part of an interactive Web site with which a WS consumer user interacts and or as part of a programmatically accessed API. In addition while not illustrated here in some embodiments various security information and or mechanisms may be used such as to ensure that only authorized WS consumers are allowed to subscribe to some or all WSes and or to perform immediate WS access requests without subscriptions.

The routine begins at step where a WS access request is received such as based on a previously created subscription. The routine continues to to determine whether the access request is a subscription based request e.g. based on whether a subscription ID is received as part of the request or instead if an indication is received that the access request is for immediate invocation without a subscription e.g. such as based on a message received from the WS Subscription routine illustrated in as part of the execution of step .

If it is determined in step that the WS invocation request is a subscription based request the routine continues to step to retrieve subscription related information from the received request such as an indication of the subscription ID for the subscription and of the identity of the WS consumer. In step the routine then retrieves stored information for the subscription and in step determines whether to approve the request such as based on whether the subscription is valid whether any current subscription based throttling conditions and or WS based throttling conditions are satisfied whether the requesting user is authorized to use the subscription in the requested manner e.g. is an authorized affiliate for the subscription etc. If it is determined in step that the request is not approved the routine continues to step to send an error response message to the requester and to store information about the error but otherwise continues to step to determine whether any payment is needed for the request and if so to attempt to obtain the payment e.g. for purchased subscriptions in which an additional per access charge applies or for subscriptions that a WS consumer has established such that affiliates using the subscription provide their own payment for their use . As discussed elsewhere payment can be obtained in various ways in various embodiments including by dynamically purchasing a subscription or other access e.g. as a credit card transaction via use of previously acquired WSM points etc. If it is determined in step that needed payment is not obtained the routine continues to step .

If it is instead determined in step that any needed payment is obtained or in step that the received request was not a subscription based request the routine continues instead to step to retrieve stored information for the WS including information about how to invoke the WS. The routine then continues to step to invoke the WS from the WS provider as necessary to obtain response information using the retrieved WS invocation information. While not illustrated here in some embodiments retrieved information may be stored in a cache or other storage mechanism and such cached stored information may be considered for use rather than invoking the WS from a WS provider. In addition in some embodiments step may be performed regardless of the validation actions in step as to whether to approve the request and in step whether any needed payment was obtained such as to perform step in parallel with such validation steps and to handle any failure of those steps by not providing to the requester any response information and or other benefits resulting from the WS invocation. After step the routine continues to step to store a record of the WS access transaction.

In step the routine then determines if any notification conditions have been triggered by the request and or response as well as whether any other subscription updates are needed e.g. to update a subscription after the last authorized use has been made so that any next attempt to use a subscription would fail and if so the routine proceeds accordingly to provide such notifications and or perform such subscription updates. After step the routine continues to step to determine whether response information was successfully received from the WS service invocation and if not continues to to credit any payment obtained in step before continuing to step in other embodiments payment may not be obtained until after successful invocation to prevent such payment credits or instead payment may be retained even if the invocation fails . If it is determined in step that response information was successfully received the routine continues to step to format the response information as appropriate for the requester e.g. based on previously specified preferences and then sends the formatted response information to the requester. After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so the routine returns to step and if not the routine continues to step and ends.

As with the registration and subscription routines the WS Invocation routine can be performed in various ways in various embodiments such as part of an interactive Web site in response to an explicit user request or instead as part of a programmatically accessed API. In addition in some embodiments various security information and or mechanisms may be employed such as to ensure that only authorized WS consumers are able to invoke WSes and that any WS to be invoked is from an authorized WS provider. In addition in some embodiments the information provided to a WS consumer about how to request a WS invocation and any invocation response information returned to the WS consumer is formatted in such a way as to obfuscate or mask various types of information such as the details about how to perform the actual invocation request to the WS provider and or identity or other information about the WS provider in this way the WSM system is able to ensure that any invocation request to WS providers come from the WSM system and are thus authorized. Alternatively in other embodiments the WSM system may not serve as an intermediary for the invocation of some or all WSes such as by providing to WS consumers the details about how to directly interact with a WS provider to invoke a subscribed to or otherwise access approved WS. For example in some embodiments when a WS consumer has purchased or otherwise acquired access to a WS the WSM system could provide access authorization information to the consumer to allow the consumer to obtain access to the WS directly from the provider of the WS such as details about how to access the WS and or a token or other indication that the WS provider can identify and optionally verify as having being supplied by the WSM system when the provider receives the information from the WS consumer e.g. a digital signature information indicating vending payment to the WSM such as transferable WSM points that can be used by the WS provider to receive compensation from the WSM system etc. .

The routine begins at step where a request is received from a user. In step the routine determines whether the user is authorized to make the request such as based on security information and associated access privileges for the user. If it is determined that the user and request are authorized the routine continues to step to determine whether the request is from a WS provider user to modify information for a WS registered by the user and if so continues to step to modify the stored information as appropriate. If it was instead determined that the request was not to modify information for a registered WS the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request was to monitor a Web service e.g. from the Web service provider user that registered the WS and if so continues to step to retrieve information related to the WS as requested and provide it to the user e.g. information about current status of the WS and or usage of the WS .

If it was determined that the received request was not to monitor a WS the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request was from a WS consumer user to modify a subscription for the user and if so continues to step to modify the stored information as appropriate. If the request was not to modify information for a subscription the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request is to monitor use of a subscription e.g. from a WS consumer that created the subscription and if so continues to step to retrieve information related to the subscription as requested and provide it to the user e.g. information about use of a subscription by affiliates .

If it was instead determined that the request was not to monitor use of a subscription the routine continues to step to determine whether the request was to review account information for the user and if so continue to step to retrieve and provide account information to the user as requested. If the request was not to review account information the routine continues instead to step to perform another requested operation if appropriate such as to modify the user s account e.g. by purchasing additional WSM points or otherwise providing additional payment information . After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so the routine continues to step if not the routine continues to step and ends.

As previously described with respect to other routines the WSM Portal routine can be provided in various ways in various embodiments including as part of an interactive Web site with which the user interacts and or as part of a programmatically accessed API. In addition various security mechanisms may be provided to ensure that users are authorized to obtain the information requested and or to make the requested modifications to information.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that in some embodiments the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into less routines. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel and or in a particular order those skilled in the art will appreciate that in other embodiments the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the data structures discussed above may be structured in different manners such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated data structures may store more or less information than is described such as when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims and the elements recited therein. In addition while certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any available claim form. For example while only some aspects of the invention may currently be recited as being embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be so embodied.

