---

title: Subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across networks
abstract: A system and method is provided to facilitate subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across same or different networks. The method includes receiving preferences from a sending client and a receiving client and receiving content of a first media type over a network. The method further includes sending the content or a reference to the content to the receiving client in a preferred media type and to a preferred device in accordance with at least one preference of the receiving client. The method also includes notifying at least the receiving client that the content is to be received by the preferred device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234410&OS=08234410&RS=08234410
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08234410
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080104
---
The invention generally relates to a system and method for computer systems and more particularly the invention relates to a system and method to facilitate subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across same or different networks.

In recent years the digital media marketplace has been ever expanding. For example more and more content is migrating from traditional mechanisms to be digitally generated electronically distributed and rendered in a variety of mechanisms. With this known there are many trends in the market place today.

For example while most Tier 1 content is generated by content creators such as movie studios and record labels more and more content is generated by individuals. For this reason better tooling and content creation environments are increasingly becoming commoditized putting these creation capabilities in the hands of individuals. But while Tier 1 content creators have worked hard to spend significant money on infrastructure to traditionally and digitally distribute the content the Internet is itself now permitting individuals to play a more significant role in the distribution of content. In fact peer to peer content sharing mechanisms have become commonplace becoming the single biggest consumer of Internet bandwidth globally.

While the Tier 1 content creators aggregators and distributors and device manufacturers all want to restrict where and how the content is rendered so that they can then work towards maximizing their portion of the revenue individuals want control over where and how they view the content of their choice. For this reason individuals are creating their own content and using peer to peer content sharing mechanisms to distribute such content. However the sharing of content becomes very difficult if not impossible with competing and incompatible communication protocols media formats different standards for media conversion and content delivery mechanisms.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method comprises receiving preferences from a sending client and a receiving client and receiving content of a first media type over a network. The method further includes sending the content or a reference to the content to the receiving client in a preferred media type and to a preferred device in accordance with at least one preference of the receiving client. The method further includes notifying at least the receiving client that the content is to be received by the preferred device.

In another aspect of the invention a method is provided for sending subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across different networks. The method comprises providing a computer infrastructure operable to parse preferences of a sending client and a receiving client in order to send content or a reference to the content to the receiving client in a preferred media type and to a preferred device and to notify at least the receiving client that the content is to be received by the preferred device.

In another aspect of the invention a network infrastructure is provided which comprises at least an agent configured to receive and store preferences of a sending client and a receiving client. The network infrastructure is further configured to based on the preferences convert a first media type sent from the sending client to a second media type requested by the receiving client send a notification to the receiving client on a first device that the second media type is ready to be downloaded on a preferred device and send the second media type to the preferred device of the receiving client which is compatible with the second media type.

In yet another aspect of the invention a computer program product is provided for managing subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across networks. The computer program product comprises a computer readable media first program instructions to receive preferences from a sending client and a receiving client second program instructions to receive content of a first media type over a network third program instructions to send the content or a reference to the content to the receiving client in a preferred media type and to a preferred device in accordance with at least one preference of the receiving client and fourth program instructions to notify at least the receiving client that the content is to be received by the preferred device. The first second third and fourth program instructions are stored on the computer readable media.

The invention generally relates to a system and method for computer systems and more particularly the invention relates to a system and method to facilitate subscriber driven media agnostic content delivery across same or different networks. The system and method of the invention provides a unique mechanism and infrastructure focused on peer to peer distribution and delivery of content. For example the system and method of the present invention is structured and configured to use existing telecommunications networks i.e. primarily non IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem based networks as well as IMS based core networks to deliver content of different types to different compatible and incompatible devices. As should be known to those of skill in the art IMS is an architectural framework for delivering internet protocol IP multimedia to mobile users. As such the system and method of the present invention can be supported on a completely wireless broadband based architecture where the focus has shifted from an access based provider to one that is primarily content driven over fat pipes. 

Accordingly in implementation service providers can support end to end points implementing the system and method of the present invention even through an extended migratory period from non IMS enabled networks to IBM enabled networks. The service providers can also support end to end points regardless of the devices and media type. Also the system and method of the invention provides a flexible means of media management.

In embodiments the service provider can be a Solution Integrator content provider telecommunications company or other third party offering to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers e.g. a sending client and or a receiving client . In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement.

The sending client service provider and or receiving client can provide preferences to the Agent via a Messaging Gateway Framework . The Messaging Gateway Framework may also be provided to send notifications and messages including content of different types using different protocols to the sending client and the receiving client using a host of protocols as discussed herein and regardless of the device of the sending or receiving client. The preferences can be stored in a storage system e.g. highly scalable database B. The storage system can be for example a Home Subscriber Service HSS Profile Manager in the case of IMS content.

By defining the preferences the present invention provides a flexible means of media management which media can be manipulated. That is by defining the preferences the Agent can efficiently enable the distribution of content from a subscriber to another subscriber or set of subscribers using a set of subscriber defined preferences for both IMS and non IMS domains. The subscribers can be for example the sending client service provider and or receiving client . The preferences can include for example 

As one preference is a desired media type the present invention contemplates whether transcoding of the content is necessary in order for the receiving client to view the content amongst other features. In the case of transcoding the Agent can allow content and metadata transformation as part of the workflow processing to satisfy all requests. A determination as to the type of content and whether the content needs to be transformed can be made by the Agent for example by parsing header information of the content. Also in implementation the present invention factors in location based delivery via integration to a network housed location platform using protocols such as Open LS or Parlay X.

In further implementations the Agent supports a variety of notification and delivery channels. For example it is contemplated that the Agent can support XMPP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol MMSC Multimedia Messaging Switching Center WAP Wireless Application Protocol SMS Short Message Service and SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol including out of band notifications IMS Handsets via a SIP Session Initiation Protocol client Web Services SOAP and REST and STB. The Web Services allow application and automated process integration where required. In the case of an IMS network the Agent can incorporate SIP based session control or provide instructions for such session control while ensuring that the actual digital media is referenced as an external object that can then be referenced in the media stream via a media server. In this way the system can support a plethora of handsets e.g. 2G 3G and possibly 4G handsets each of which have different rendering capabilities browser based applications portable media players gaming consoles non standard devices such as Set Top Boxes and applications which are endpoints by means of using REST or SOAP style invocations and providing end point implementations. The Agent can also provide for or set up necessary edge based caching so as to optimize delivery of the content and provide for integration into both an IMS and non IMS accounting and charging platforms.

The computing device includes a processor a memory A an input output I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Further the computing device is in communication with an external I O device resource and the storage system B. As should be understood in certain implementation such as non IMS enabled networks the storage system B may be internal to the Agent .

The I O device can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. For example the external I O device resource may be keyboards displays pointing devices etc.

In general the processor executes the program code which is stored in memory A and or the storage system B and or the Agent . While executing the program code the processor can read and or write data to from the memory A storage system B I O interface and or Agent . The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device .

The computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by the computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to the computer infrastructure using any type of communications link e.g. location platform gateway etc. . The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

Generally the invention includes a set up flow and a content distribution processing flow. By way of example shows a set up implementation in accordance with the invention whereas shows a process flow for content distribution in accordance with the invention. shows a specific example of a process flow for content distribution in accordance with the invention.

Although are shown as swim lane diagrams it should be understood by those of skill in the art that the swim lane diagrams can equally represent flow diagrams or high level block diagrams of components of the invention implementing the steps thereof. The processes of may be implemented on computer program code via the Agent in combination with the appropriate hardware. This computer program code may be stored on storage media such as a diskette hard disk CD ROM DVD ROM or tape as well as a memory storage device or collection of memory storage devices such as read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM . Additionally the computer program code can be transferred to a workstation over the Internet or some other type of network.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements any of which is referred generally as file management program . The hardware and software elements include a computer infrastructure configured to implement the functionality of the present invention as shown in . The software elements may be firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Referring to the swim lane diagram shows the following participants a sending client and receiving client depicted generally as Subscriber Endpoint Client a Subscriber Preference Manager also known generally as a web tool an HSS Profile Manager and the Agent also referred to as a Media processing and Distribution Agent . It should be recognized by those of skill in the art that the Subscriber Preference Manager HSS Profile Manager and Agent may be supported maintained deployed serviced and configured by the service provider in any combination as well as being implemented in the computing infrastructure of . The receiving client can represent a plethora of handsets e.g. 2G 3G and possibly 4G handsets each of which have different rendering capabilities browser based applications portable media players gaming consoles non standard devices such as Set Top Boxes and applications which are endpoints by means of using REST or SOAP style invocations and providing end point implementations.

In the implementation of at step S if necessary the Agent registers with the HSS Profile Manager. In one implementation the HSS Profile Manager is based on a Diameter infrastructure e.g. in the case of IMS networks in which case the HSS Profile Manager will receive notifications from the Agent via a Diameter protocol when changes to subscriber profiles preferences are made by the Subscriber Endpoint Client. At step S the Subscriber Endpoint Client logs in and configures delivery and receipt of the preferences via the Subscriber Preference Manager. For example in step S the Subscriber Endpoint Client can provide its preferences to the Subscriber Preference Manager via an HTTP. The Subscriber Preference Manager in turn updates the HSS Profile Manager and if necessary the Agent depending on the network IMS vs. non IMS enabled networks at step S. At step S if necessary the HSS Profile Manager sends notifications via the Diameter protocol to the Agent so as to remain synchronized. Although a certain order is shown the processes of the present invention may be provided in a different order e.g. step S may be performed directly after or at any time after step S.

It is to be noted that during call flow HSS lookups do not have to be performed to aid in the overall performance of the system. Also any information received via the Diameter protocol as part of the provisioning process e.g. set up process can be cached within the Agent platform e.g. storage system B . Moreover it is contemplated by the present invention that the set up information can be periodically updated and as such provisions are provided to update the database so to add new devices and or other preferences when requested by the Subscriber Endpoint Client sending client or receiving client to the solution mix.

At step S if necessary the Agent can perform value added processing such as for example transcoding as well as make a determination of the actual delivery channels. It is also contemplated that the transcoding to save overhead can be performed by the sending client or other participant if resources e.g. hardware and software are available on the particular devices.

At step S the content can be delivered to an edge content location for future retrieval by the preferred device of the receiving client e.g. STB . The content can be delivered directly from the sending client or in other embodiments via the Agent.

At step S if necessary the Agent contacts the location platform to determine the location of the receiving client. In embodiments the location platform may be part of the Agent. This can be done in any conventional manner such as for example via a GPS transceiver or other known messaging. At step S the location platform determines the location of the receiving client and provides this location information to the Agent. As such the location geographic separation and preferences of both the receiver and the sender may be used as factors implementing one or more rules within the system and method of the invention. The communication with the location platform may be performed via an Open LS Request and Response for example. It should be recognized though that other communication protocols are also contemplated by the invention as discussed herein.

At step S the Agent notifies the preferred device of the receiving client that content is ready for delivery. In embodiments depending on the content and delivery preferences the notification can be provided to a STB Set Top Box or other user defined device. For example after determining that the receiving client is at or near his her residence and based on the preferences of the receiving client the Agent can send a notification of content to the STB in the receiving client s residence. The notification can be a reference to the content which resides for example on the edge network distribution e.g. a server at the edge of the network geographically nearer to the target client . The content can be retrieved by the STB or other preferred device for example from the server on the network via the reference.

At step S a notification can be provided to the cellular telephone or other device of the receiving client again depending on the preferences. This notification will notify the receiving client that content is ready to be downloaded on a preferred device. In the case of a cellular telephone for example the notification can be sent to the Messaging Gateway Framework via a short message peer to peer protocol SMPP notification and then to the target client via an SMS notification. Similarly at step S a notification can also be provided to the cellular telephone or other device of the sending client again depending on the preferences. Again in the case of a cellular telephone for example the notification can be sent to the Messaging Gateway Framework via a SMPP notification and then to the sending client via an SMS notification. This notification can indicate amongst other notices that the receiving client has received a notification of the content and or has downloaded the content.

At step S the preferred device of the receiving client in this example the STB requests the content from the server. In this example the STB or other preferred device asynchronously requests the content and downloads it locally. At step S the content is sent to the preferred device. In embodiments as discussed above the Agent can send a notification to the sending client that the content has been delivered to the receiving client. At step S the receiving client can view the content on the preferred device.

Also it should be recognized that to simplify the call flow for illustrative purposes the interaction from the Agent and the SIP aware MMSC Multimedia Messaging Switching Center is not depicted as flowing through an S CSCF node s . Also as discussed above as the media objects can be large indirect notification via a reference is assumed which is a specification supported case. Also does not show delivery reporting in detail as the purpose of this swim lane diagram is to focus on a methodology of content distribution in accordance with the invention.

Referring now specifically to at step S the sending client makes a request to the Agent for delivery of content to a receiving client . In this embodiment the sending client is on a non IMS handset and as such the request is not a SIP U A. At step S the Agent performs the following exemplary types of activities 

At step S the Agent opens communication with the location platform if necessary to determine the location of the receiving client. At step S the location platform determines the location of the receiving client and provides this location information to the Agent. As noted above the location geographic separation and preferences of both the receiver and the sender may be used as factors implementing one or more rules within the system and method of the invention. The communication with the location platform may be performed via an Open LS Request and Response for example. It should be recognized though that other communication protocols are also contemplated by the invention as discussed herein.

At step S after the Agent determines that there is an SIP end point the content is transcoded and sent to the edge caching tier for temporary transient storage. At step S the Agent sends a SIP message request notification of content to the IMS Compliant MMSC which then contacts and notifies the SIP U A on the receiving client that content is available for viewing. The IMS Compliant MMSC may be a Media Gateway Framework MGF which includes the set of delivery channels identified in . The MGF uses the instructions it is provided based on the preferences to route notifications and data to both endpoints sending client and receiving client .

At step S the receiving client sends a SIP message response to the IMS compliant MMSC which makes it back to the Agent via the MMSC . At step S the receiving client SIP U A requests the message contents by sending an indirect message request to the MMSC. At step S the MMSC responds with a Message Response SIP message with the indirect reference to the content s logical location in the edge distribution network.

At step S the receiving client SIP U A requests the content via an MM Retrieve.REQ request. It should be understood by those of skill in the art that the request could have also been sent directly to the MMSC. At step S the receiving client receives an MM Retrieve.RES in response to the request. At step S the SIP U A generates a delivery acknowledgement via the MM Acknowledgement REQ SIP message sent to the MMSC. At step S the MMSC notifies the Agent with the same MM Acknowledgment REQ message. At step S the Agent generates an SMPP message to be delivered to the originating sending client handset via the Messaging Gateway Framework which will generate an OTA SMS message. This SMS message will confirm delivery receipt of the content to the receiving client.

The Access Tier primarily depicts the transport network which may include the Internet Wireless Network or edge Cache amongst other channels of delivery. These channels of delivery will deliver the content and any required notifications via the respective protocols. As discussed above the content and notifications can be delivered on different channels depending on the preferences and type of content.

The Services Tier primary contains the Messaging Gateway Framework and the Agent with all the protocol support required to connect to the underlying telecommunications infrastructure platform as well as to the Messaging Gateway Framework via the various protocols that are required for delivery of the content. For example the Messaging Gateway Framework supports XMPP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol Gateway SMSC SMPP MMSC MM7 WAP Gateway Web Services Gateway W S and or SIP Gateway. All of these protocols can be supported by the system and method of the invention unlike in known technologies.

The Agent is shown as a Media Distribution Platform. The Platform includes a transcoder as well as a rules engine mediation routing and protocol conversion engine. In embodiments as the sender of content may have no visibility into the receiver s rendering capabilities the rules engine will be used to parse the preferences of the sender and the receiver in order to coordinate the delivery of the content by the Agent. The mediation can be an Enterprise Service Bus which is configured to apply the rules preferences . The protocol conversion engine is a core function which converts the content from one protocol to another protocol again depending on the content and preferences. For example the protocol conversion engine can convert data transmission from asynchronous to synchronous TCP IP to another protocol etc.

The Control Tier primarily comprises elements of the IMS control e.g. S CSCF and an HSS . The Control Tier also includes elements of the non IMS tier networks. For example a device profile component may be included in the Control Tier which is a database e.g. Storage System B storing the preferences of the end points sending client and receiving client . The Agent can communicate with the device profile via W S. The Client Tier also includes the location platform which is in communication with the Agent via Open LS or Parlay X.

The present invention also implements a Media Baseline which allows the system and method to generate one baseline representation of media and send each user the corresponding media to their respective and desired device. For example a baseline XML for Multiple Notifications can be written as follows 

Additionally a representative set of exemplary call flows are described below. These call flows describe some of the services and capabilities that are implemented using the system and method of the invention based on user preferences.

A subscriber views some content on his her browser and wants to notify his her friends about the content. He She requests the system to deliver the content to the friend. As a case in point one of the subscribers has requested that the content be sent to a Set Top Box at home. When that subscriber gets home location platform dip and turns on the television he she is notified about the content and views the content which has been downloaded to his Personal Storage Device at his residence.

A subscriber creates content on his her device and wants to notify his her friends about the content. He She requests the system to deliver the content to the friend. As a case in point one of the subscribers has requested that his content be sent to his Set Top Box at home. When that subscriber gets home location platform dip and turns on his TV he she is notified about the content and views the content which has been downloaded to his Personal Storage Device at his residence.

A subscriber gets an SMS notification about some content sent to his her media player on his home personal computer. He She logs into his her personal computer at home and views the content.

A subscriber gets an SMS notification about some content sent to his her media player on his home Entertainment System or personal computer. He She may retrieve a proxy or synopsis of that content on the mobile device.

A subscriber gets a WAP based notification sent to his device transcoded to the format that his her device can support and views the content immediately.

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

