---

title: Mobile terminal
abstract: A transmission side terminal  is provided with a transmission and reception unit  for transmitting and receiving an e-mail and an e-mail composing unit  for composing an e-mail including a special character for inquiry having associated therewith an information reply request, which is to obtain information on a destination mobile terminal of the e-mail to be transmitted. A reception side terminal  is provided with the transmission and reception unit , a determination unit  for determining whether a received e-mail includes a special character for inquiry, and a reply e-mail composing unit , when it is determined that the received e-mail includes the special character for inquiry, for composing a reply e-mail including a special character for reply with which reply information in accordance with the information reply request is associated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09252978&OS=09252978&RS=09252978
owner: Kyocera Coporation
number: 09252978
owner_city: Kyoto
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081128
---
This application is a U.S. national phase application of International Application No. PCT JP2008 071640 filed Nov. 28 2008 which claims priority to and the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 308561 filed on Nov. 29 2007. The contents of these applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to mobile terminals and more particularly to mobile terminals capable of transmitting and receiving e mails.

In recent years mobile terminals including cellular phones are widely and commonly used and the number of users has been increasing. In particular recently exchanging messages between the users of the mobile terminals through transmission reception of e mails by use of mobile terminals such as a cellular phone and PDA is widely and routinely performed. Moreover the mobile terminals are equipped with various function units and application programs such as a digital camera GPS Global Positioning System and non contact IC card function for example. These days mobile terminals are thus multifunctional improving convenience for users significantly.

In Japan due to a revision of the Ordinance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Regulations for Telecommunications Facilities for Telecommunications Business the 3G third generation cellular phone terminals released on and after April 2007 are required to have a function for notifying the departments concerned of the location information of the terminal at the time of transmission of an emergency message. Under such a circumstance it seems that the GPS Global Positioning System in particular will be spread even more widely among the functions incorporated in the mobile terminals. There have been suggested a variety of mobile terminals having navigating functions by the GPS including one described in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 10 341476.

The cellular phone described in the Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 10 341476 can as a normal cellular phone communicate with another cellular phone by radio and in addition display the present location obtained by a GPS reception unit and a GPS image data generation routine on a liquid crystal display by a map whereby the user of the cellular phone can know his her present location almost exactly.

The user moving with such a cellular phone may use the GPS function as a usable guide. Thereby the cellular phone can significantly reduce a risk that he she gets lost and cannot arrive at a destination even if a meeting spot designated is where the user has never been before.

However an intended usage of the GPS is normally to obtain the location information of the mobile terminal. Therefore the cellular phone described in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 10 341476 cannot provide the present location of a mobile terminal of a corresponding party supposed to meet but provides only the present location of the mobile terminal itself.

When the user wishes to know the present location of the corresponding party for example if the corresponding party carries a cellular phone it is possible to obtain the present location of the corresponding party through wireless communications or e mails with the corresponding party. However it could be a considerable burden for the corresponding party to verbally describe his her present location and in some cases it may be difficult for the corresponding party to talk or explain on the phone such as when the corresponding party is on a train. In addition it may be a troublesome task for the corresponding party to write the present location in e mail and further there may be some cases where the corresponding party cannot successfully describe the present location by using textual information. It may happen that the corresponding party has no idea about the present location if he she is unfamiliar with the place.

In order to deal with such problems Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2002 262338 for example discloses a technique in which each of the mobile terminal of the user and the mobile terminal of the corresponding party is provided with the GPS function and obtains its location information from a GPS satellite. According to this technique the user can obtain even the location information of the corresponding party from a location information service center by using his her mobile terminal and also map information from a map information database.

A mobile communication terminal described in the Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2002 262338 enables the user to obtain the present location information of the mobile terminal of his her mobile terminal as well as the present location information of the mobile terminal of the corresponding party. Moreover this mobile communication terminal can show not only the user s location but also the corresponding party s location on a map displayed on a display unit of the user s mobile terminal. It is thus possible to easily locate the present location of the corresponding party. Hence according to the mobile communication terminal described in the Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2002 262338 it is possible to easily recognize a locational relationship between him her and the corresponding party.

In light of privacy protection however such a condition which enables anyone to know other parties locations anytime as necessary may cause a problem. Hence in operating a technique as such both of a party who wishes to know the present location and the other party to inform the present location of himself herself need to subscribe an additional service and the likes in advance to provide location information. That is it is necessary for the party who wishes to inform his her location to take measures by subscribing the service and specifying other party to which disclosure of his her location information is permitted. Alternatively it is necessary to introduce a system in which the user asks permission for the location of the other party each time he she wishes to obtain it by a means such as a wireless communication and only when the user can get permission the location information of the other party is disclosed.

According to the technique disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2002 262338 it is required that an ID number specifying the other party whose location information the user wishes to obtain is obtained in advance and registered with the mobile terminal of the user who wishes to obtain the location information of the other party. In addition it is assumed that the mobile terminal uses a PIN number to use a location information service. Furthermore the mobile terminal of the other party whose location information the user wished to obtain is practically configured to provide the present location information thereof only to intended parties while preventing the present location information from being obtained by general public. In order to achieve that it is necessary to introduce measures such that the mobile terminal of the corresponding party must pass through steps to permit disclosure of the location information thereof.

However such configuration to pass through specific authorization steps in order to ask for permission for disclosure of the information of the corresponding party requires considerable time and effort for both of the user and the corresponding party. With such considerable time and effort required there is not much difference from a case where the user calls the corresponding party to ask the location or asks the corresponding party to describe the location in the e mail.

Moreover there may be a case where the user waiting for the other party late wishes to know not only the location information of the other party but also other information. For example the user waiting for the other party may wish to know additional information such as transportation being used by the other party as well as the present location of the other party so as to guess when the other party will arrive and reduce a time waiting idly. However it also requires considerable time and effort for both the user and the other party if the user inquires the other party about the additional information by sending an e mail and the other party receiving the inquiry composes a reply e mail to describe the additional information.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention in consideration of such problems to provide a transmission side mobile terminal capable of easily and quickly compose an e mail requesting information such as the present location of the corresponding party. Moreover it is also an object of the present invention to provide a reception side mobile terminal capable of easily and quickly composing and transmitting an e mail containing information such as the present location of itself only to an intended party based on a received e mail requesting the information.

In order to achieve the above object the invention of a mobile terminal in accordance with a first aspect includes 

an e mail composing unit for composing an e mail including a special character with which an information reply request is associated wherein the information reply request is to obtain information on a destination mobile terminal of the e mail which is transmitted by the transmission and reception unit.

In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention in the mobile terminal in accordance with the first aspect 

the e mail composing unit further includes a selection unit for selecting information on the destination mobile terminal to request and composes the e mail by associating the information reply request which is to obtain the information selected by the selection unit with the special character.

a determination unit for determining whether an e mail received by the transmission and reception unit includes a special character for inquiry with which an information reply request requesting reply with information on the mobile terminal is associated and

a reply e mail composing unit if the determination unit determines that the special character for inquiry is included for composing a reply e mail including a special character for reply with which reply information in accordance with the information reply request is associated.

In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention in the mobile terminal in accordance with the third aspect 

the reply e mail composing unit further includes a selection unit for selecting a desired item from items of the information reply request and composes the reply e mail by associating the reply information in accordance with the item of the information reply request selected by the selection unit with the special character for reply.

In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention the mobile terminal in accordance with the third aspect further includes

the reply e mail composing unit composes the reply e mail including the location information of the mobile terminal obtained by the location information obtaining unit.

In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present invention the mobile terminal in accordance with the fifth aspect further includes

the reply e mail composing unit composes the reply e mail including estimated transportation information of the mobile terminal estimated based on the location information of the mobile terminal obtained by the location information obtaining unit and time information obtained by the timing unit.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described below with reference to the drawings. In each of the embodiments described below a cellular phone is taken as an example of a mobile terminal of the present invention. However the mobile terminal of the present invention is not limited to a cellular phone but is applicable to mobile communication terminals such as for example a PDA and the like. Further in the following description a terminal that transmits an e mail including an information reply request to inquire location information of a corresponding party is referred to as a transmission side terminal and a terminal that receives the e mail including the information reply request is referred to as a reception side terminal.

According to each embodiment of the present invention since two cellular phones having the same specification are used and one can be a transmission side terminal and the other can be a reception side terminal explanation is given on the assumption that the cellular phones used on the transmission and on the reception sides have the same specification.

As shown in a cellular phone is provided with an input unit a display unit a microphone and a speaker . The input unit is constituted of an operation key group and the likes to receive input by a user. The display unit is constituted of a liquid crystal display an organic EL display or the like to display a variety of information such as a result of input to the input unit . The microphone receives audio input whereas the speaker outputs audio.

The cellular phone is further provided with a communication unit a GPS processing unit a memory unit a non contact IC card function unit a timing unit a control unit for controlling the cellular phone entirely including above function units. The communication unit constitutes a transmission reception unit for transmitting and receiving information including audio data and e mail data to and from a base station not shown via an antenna. The GPS processing unit constitutes a location information obtaining unit for receiving GPS information for example latitude and longitude data via a GPS antenna and converting the GPS information into data which can be processed by the cellular phone . The memory unit stores various kinds of information such as input information application programs and the likes. The non contact IC card function unit performs a short distance radio communication with various external terminals not shown . The timing unit measures present time. In the following description the application program is abbreviated to application .

The control unit includes an e mail composing unit and a determination unit . The e mail composing unit retrieves an e mail composing application from the memory unit and controls a sequence of composition of the e mail based on input to the input unit by the user. The determination unit determines whether data constituting a predetermined special character is included in a received e mail by the communication unit .

The input unit may be a key operation unit not shown having a plurality of mechanical keys or may be a touch panel not shown that is superimposed on the front face of the display unit in accordance with the specification of the cellular phone . In addition for convenience of explanation the memory unit is explained as a unit not only for storing input information and various applications and the like but also for serving as a work memory or a buffer.

The GPS processing unit is controlled by the control unit to receive radio waves from a GPS satellite by using the GPS antenna and thereby calculates the location information for example latitude and longitude of the terminal itself. The non contact IC card function unit performs a non contact communication for an electric payment. The user can perform the electric payment automatically in a non contact manner by holding the non contact IC card function unit of a terminal body over an IC card reader writer connected to a POS Point Of Sales terminal in a shop. Moreover the non contact IC card function unit enables a railway company to automatically withdraw a fare from a previously charged stored money at a point where the user passes through an automatic ticket gate in accordance with a service provided by the company or may function as a commuter pass by being registered in advance.

It is to be noted that since each function unit of the cellular phone of the present invention may have the same constitution as those of a conventional cellular phone having a general GPS function and a non contact IC card function mounted therein a detailed description of each function unit is omitted.

The following is a description of an operation of a transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment to transmit the e mail with reference to examples of display on a screen in and a flowchart in .

First when a user operates the transmission side terminal to start writing an e mail inquiring about a present location of a corresponding party the e mail composing unit of the cellular phone the transmission side terminal retrieves and executes the e mail composing application from the memory unit . Thereby the operation shifts to an e mail composing mode to compose an e mail step S . In the e mail composing mode the display unit is controlled by the e mail composing unit to display characters of the e mail in response to user input to the input unit .

In the present embodiment when the user of the cellular phone of the transmission side terminal inquires about information of the corresponding party through an e mail in order to know a present location of the corresponding party whom the user is supposed to meet for example the user includes the predetermined special character special character for inquiry to facilitate a response by the corresponding party in the e mail. The special character for inquiry may take any forms such as for example a special character a symbol a pictorial symbol a picture a mark and an icon as long as they are distinguishable from normal characters used in the e mail.

For example the user can compose an e mail with a message such as WHERE are you Please contact me. including a pictorial symbol depicting WHERE as the predetermined special character for inquiry as shown in . However it is also possible to inquire about the present location of the corresponding party by sending only the special character for inquiry. Hence the present example describes a case where the e mail includes only a single special character for inquiry such as WHERE as shown in .

In the e mail composing mode when the special character for inquiry is detected in the e mail being written Yes at step S the e mail composing unit attaches an information reply request which is information requesting the reception side terminal to reply with its location information to the e mail by associating the information reply request with the special character for inquiry step S .

When composing the e mail is completed the control unit determines whether the user has input using the input unit to start a transmission process of the e mail composed step S . After input to start the e mail transmission process that is when an icon TRANSMIT shown in a lower right of is selected the control unit encodes data of the e mail and controls the communication unit to transmit the encoded data to the reception side terminal via the base station step S and then ends the e mail transmission process. At this time it is possible to indicate to the user that the information reply request has been sent together with a message of the e mail the special character only in the present example by showing a screen as shown in on the display unit .

If the special character for inquiry is not used in the e mail to transmit at the step S it means that characters are input to a normal e mail without the information reply request attached thereto. When the special character for inquiry is not used the e mail transmission process thereafter is the same as a normal e mail transmission process.

In the present embodiment as described above the user who wishes to know the present location of the corresponding party can transmit a reply request about the location information by a significantly simple and quick operation to include the special character for inquiry in the e mail when composing a usual normal e mail. That is it is possible to make an inquiry about the present location of the corresponding party by the same sequence as to compose the usual e mail or by composing the e mail containing only the special character for inquiry to simply request for the location information of the corresponding party.

Next operations to receive and reply to an e mail by the cellular phone on the reception side according to the present embodiment are described with reference to a flowchart in and examples of display on the screen in . Here it describes about the cellular phone of the reception side terminal which receives the e mail including the predetermined special character special character for inquiry having associated therewith the information reply request from the cellular phone of the transmission side terminal described above and replies to the e mail. Although it is possible to receive a usual e mail without the predetermined special character and reply to the usual e mail by composing a usual e mail such operation is the same as reception and transmission of the e mail using conventionally known mobile terminals and thus a description thereof is omitted.

First the control unit of a reception side cellular phone controls the communication unit to receive the e mail transmitted from the transmission side terminal through the base station via the antenna step S . When the e mail is thereby received the control unit stores the received e mail in the memory unit . At this time the determination unit determines whether the predetermined special character special character for inquiry with which the information reply request is associated is included in the received e mail. When the special character for inquiry is included in the e mail the control unit also stores the information reply request attached in association with the special character for inquiry in the memory unit .

When the e mail is stored the control unit determines whether the user has operated the input unit to shift to a received e mail display mode such that the user of the reception side terminal can view the e mail step S . If the user has operated to shift to the received e mail display mode the control unit retrieves a message of the e mail together with the special character for inquiry from the memory unit and controls the display unit to display them step S . For example when the e mail received from the transmission side terminal includes only the special character for inquiry WHERE the display unit displays a screen as shown in .

The special character for inquiry included in the e mail is displayed on the display unit to be distinguishable from characters used to compose a usual e mail as shown in for example. In a name of a sender of the e mail is shown in a column from to show that the e mail being displayed is transmitted from a user registered under a name of Mr. A. In descriptions hereinafter the user operating the cellular phone of the transmission side is referred to as Mr. A whereas the user operating the cellular phone of the reception side is referred to as Mr. B.

After displaying the message of the e mail including the special character for inquiry on the display unit at step S the e mail composing unit determines whether to reply by using the special character for inquiry or to reply without using the special character for inquiry in accordance with an operation by the user step S . An operation to reply using the special character for inquiry i.e. based on the information reply request associated with the special character for inquiry is hereinafter referred to as a reply information e mail composing mode for convenience. In addition an operation to reply without using the special character for inquiry that is to reply only with conventional textual information and not responding to the information reply request is hereinafter referred to as a text e mail composing mode .

When displaying the special character for inquiry pictorial symbol of WHERE in this case with which the information reply request is associated together with the message on the display unit the control unit controls the special character for inquiry to be selected in response to an input operation such as a key pressing operation to the input unit by the user of the reception side. The e mail composing unit shifts the cellular phone to the reply information e mail composing mode in response to an input operation to select the special character for inquiry step S . In the reply information e mail composing mode the e mail composing unit based on the information associated with the special character for inquiry retrieved from the memory unit controls the display unit to display a predetermined special character special character for reply for reply in association with a reply information which is information to respond to the information reply request by the sender of the e mail. The special character for reply may take any forms such as for example a special character a symbol a pictorial symbol a picture a mark and an icon as long as they can be distinguished from normal characters used in the e mail. However it is preferable that the special character for reply is in a form which enables a user to recognize that it is a special character for responding to the special character for inquiry included in the e mail from the transmission side.

For example a case where the special character for inquiry WHERE as shown in is selected to shift to the reply information e mail composing mode is described. In this case the e mail composing unit displays a reply e mail composing screen which shows a pictorial symbol depicting HERE from the beginning as the special character for reply corresponding to the information reply request from the transmission side on the display unit . The special character for reply can be treated as a simple pictorial symbol included in the e mail and it is possible to compose a reply e mail with a message as I m HERE . I ll be there soon. shown in for example. The following is a description about a case of composing an e mail including only the special character for reply HERE as shown in as an example responding to the information reply request of a corresponding party in a simplest manner.

After completing to compose a reply e mail including the special character for reply with which reply information will be associated the e mail composing unit determines whether the user operates the input unit to start the e mail transmission process for the e mail composed step S . When input is performed to start the e mail transmission process that is when the icon TRANSMIT shown in a lower right of is selected the e mail composing unit encodes data of this e mail. In the encoding process the e mail composing unit associates predetermined reply information with the special character for reply included in the message of the e mail.

In the present embodiment the predetermined reply information of the reception side terminal in response to the information reply request from the transmission side terminal is information on the present location of the reception side terminal in particular. In order to obtain information on the present location the e mail composing unit controls the GPS processing unit to obtain the location information by the GPS as the present location of the cellular phone step S . At this point the GPS processing unit is controlled by the e mail composing unit to receive radio waves from the GPS satellite by using the GPS antenna and thereby calculates the location information for example latitude and longitude of the terminal itself. Since techniques to obtain the location information of the terminal itself with a positioning system using the GPS are known in the art a detailed description thereof is omitted.

Next the e mail composing unit controls the communication unit to transmit the location information obtained by GPS to an external server not shown via the antenna thereof. On reception of the location information based on the GPS from the cellular phone the external server searches for address information corresponding to the location information and transmits a reply including a result of the search to the cellular phone . By the reply from the external server the cellular phone obtains the address information of the terminal itself step S . Techniques to transmit the present location information to the external server and receive the reply including the address information corresponding to the present location are also known in the art a detailed description thereof is omitted. During the process at step S and S the control unit may display a screen as shown in for example on the display unit so as to inform the user that the reply information the present location information and the address information based thereon is being obtained.

On obtaining the reply information the e mail composing unit attaches the reply information obtained to the e mail by associating the information with the special character for reply the pictorial symbol HERE in this case in the e mail step S . Next the control unit encodes the e mail and controls the communication unit by referring an e mail address of the transmission side terminal based on header information of the received e mail to transmit the e mail having the reply information attached thereto to the transmission side terminal step S . After completing to transmit this e mail the control unit may display a screen as shown in for example on the display unit so as to inform the user that the reply information is transmitted together with the e mail message.

When the reception side transmits an e mail not including the special character for reply in response to the received e mail including the special character for inquiry at step S that is transmits the e mail without the reply information and with not responding to the information reply request from the transmission side terminal a process proceeds to step S. After shifting to the text e mail composing mode at step S the e mail composing unit composes the reply e mail using only usual characters and then transmits the reply e mail at step S.

Accordingly in the present embodiment as a simplest operation the reception side terminal which received the information reply request from the transmission side terminal can prepare the reply e mail including the special character for reply with which the reply information is associated based on the user operation to simply select the special character for inquiry included in the received e mail. After preparing the reply e mail it is possible to automatically obtain the present location information and the address information of the reception side terminal requested by the user of the transmission side terminal and to attach them to the reply e mail to be transmitted only by the user operation to transmit the reply e mail. Hence even the user who is not good at operating devices can respond to the inquiry about the location by operating his mobile terminal in a significantly simple manner.

The cellular phone of the user Mr. A which received the reply e mail can display the message of the reply e mail received on the display unit as shown in for example in this case. The special character for reply included in the reply e mail is associated with the present location information and the address information of the cellular phone of the user Mr. B which transmitted the reply e mail. Therefore the control unit in response to an input operation of the user Mr. A using the input unit to select the special character for reply for example displays the information associated with the special character for reply as shown in . Then in response to an input operation to select DISPLAY ADDRESS as shown in the control unit displays the address information of the user Mr. B on the display unit as shown in . In addition the control unit in response to an operation to select the DISPLAY MAP as shown in by transmitting the address information to the external server not shown to request for reply with map information corresponding to the address and obtaining the map information displays a map as shown in for example on the display unit .

As set forth above the user Mr. A who wishes to know the present location of the corresponding party can quickly inquire about the location of the corresponding party by a simple operation. In addition the user Mr. B who receives the inquiry about the location can compose and transmit a reply e mail easily and quickly in response to the inquiry based on the received e mail. Moreover the user Mr. A who receives the reply e mail can know the present location of the user Mr. B quickly by a simple operation.

Furthermore the user can protect privacy when receiving the information reply request through an e mail including the special character for inquiry. In particular the user who received the information reply request can make a selection whether to inform the corresponding party of the present address or place of the user by replying with the reply information to reply with the normal e mail without the reply information that is without disclosing the location information of the user or even not to reply. Hence it is possible to disclose the information of the terminal itself only to intended corresponding parties.

In the second embodiment differently from the first embodiment described above the transmission side terminal requests a corresponding terminal to reply with not only information on the present location and the address information thereof but also other information selected from a variety of information and the reception side terminal obtains information in accordance with the information reply request and transmits them to the transmission side terminal. Therefore the e mail composing unit of the transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment has a selection unit not shown not only to display items of a variety of information on the corresponding terminal to request on the display unit but also to receive selection of the items to request for reply.

The following is a description of an operation to transmit the e mail by the transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment with reference to the examples of the display screen shown in and a flowchart shown in .

The transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment in the same manner as that according to the above first embodiment when the user of the transmission side who wishes to know the present location and the likes of the corresponding party composes an e mail allows the user to include the special character for inquiry in the e mail as shown in and transmit the e mail. In the same manner as the above first embodiment the case of composing the e mail including only the special character for inquiry WHERE is described below as an example to inquire in the simplest manner about information such as the present location of the corresponding party.

If the special character for inquiry is detected in the e mail being composed Yes of step S in the e mail composing mode at step S shown in the selection unit of the e mail composing unit receives input to select the information on the reception side terminal to associate as the information reply request with the special character for inquiry step S . For example items of the information that the transmission side terminal can request to the reception side terminal are displayed on the display unit as shown in for example so as to receive input by the user of the transmission side terminal to select desired items. shows as an example of the information request selecting operation a state where the present location of the corresponding party transportation nearest station nearby landmark traffic report and the likes are listed and the user of the transmission side selects the present location and the transportation among the items.

When an input operation is performed to confirm the selected items of the information reply request at step S that is when an icon CONFIRM shown in a lower right of is selected the e mail composing unit attaches information on the information rely request selected to the e mail by associating the information with the special character for inquiry step S .

After completing to compose the e mail the control unit determines whether the user has operated the input unit to start the e mail transmission process to transmit the completed e mail step S . When the user inputs to start the e mail transmission process that is the icon TRANSMIT in the lower right of is selected on the screen which is returned to the original state after the information request selection shown in is confirmed the control unit encodes this e mail and transmits it step S . After the e mail transmission process the display unit may display a screen as shown in for example so as to inform the user that the selected information reply request is transmitted together with the message of the e mail to the corresponding party only the special character for inquiry in this example .

As described above according to the present embodiment the user who wishes to know the present location and other information of the corresponding party can quickly transmit the reply request of the location information and other information through significantly simple operations including the predetermined special character for inquiry in the normal e mail and selecting desired information about the reception side terminal.

The following is a description of an operation to receive and reply to the e mail by the reception side cellular phone according to the present embodiment with reference to a flowchart in . In the operation of the reception side terminal according to the present embodiment when transmitting the reply e mail in the reply information e mail composing mode of the reception side terminal according to the first embodiment step S the e mail composing unit obtains the location information and the address information. According to the present embodiment furthermore the e mail composing unit controls corresponding units to perform processing to obtain various information necessary as the reply information in accordance with the information reply request from the transmission side terminal.

More particularly when the reply e mail having associated therewith the reply information in accordance with the information reply request is composed in the reply information e mail composing mode at step S and the e mail transmission process is started Yes of step S the operation shifts to step S. At step S the e mail composing unit controls each function unit to analyze items of the information reply request associated with the special character for inquiry in the e mail received from the transmission side terminal and to obtain the information corresponding to the items as the reply information.

For example if information on PRESENT LOCATION is requested by the information reply request the e mail composing unit controls the GPS processing unit in the same manner as the first embodiment to receive radio waves from the GPS satellite and thereby obtains the location information of the terminal itself. Furthermore the e mail composing unit controls the communication unit to communicate with the external server as necessary so as to convert the location information into the address information.

In addition if information on TRANSPORTATION is requested by the information reply request and it is detected that the terminal has passed through the automatic ticket gate of a station by reading a usage history of the non contact IC card function unit for example it is regarded that the user is on a train. It is also possible to regard that the user is on a bus when detecting that it is immediately after the non contact IC card function unit has communicated with an IC card reader writer installed in the bus or that the user is in a taxi in a similar manner and to include such result in the reply information. Moreover if it is detected that it is immediately after the terminal has communicated with the IC card reader writer terminal in a shop as the user purchased something with electronic money it is possible to include the reply information such as NO transportation and NEAR THE SHOP in the reply e mail.

Furthermore if the present location information has been obtained by the GPS processing unit it is also possible to inquire about various kinds of relevant information to the present location by using conventional techniques by transmitting the location information to appropriate external servers. For example it is possible to include a name of a train station nearest from the present location as NEAREST STATION information and a name of a nearby building which can be a landmark as NEARBY LANDMARK in the reply information. In addition traffic information near the present location and delay information of railway companies around the nearest station can be included as TRANSPORTATION in the reply information.

Thereby after obtaining all of the reply information corresponding to the information reply request received from the transmission side terminal the e mail composing unit controls the reply information to be attached in association with the special character for reply in the reply e mail step S . Then the reply e mail including the special character for reply is encoded and transmitted to the transmission side terminal step S . Other operations are the same as those in the first embodiment.

As set forth above the user Mr. A who wishes to know not only the present location of the corresponding party but also various relevant information can inquire about them quickly by a simple operation. In addition the user Mr. B who received the inquiry can compose and transmit the reply e mail in response to the inquiry based on the received e mail quickly in a simple manner.

Moreover the user Mr. A who received the reply e mail can know not only the present location of the user Mr. B but also the relevant information quickly by a simple operation. For example a case is exemplified where the transmission side terminal of the user Mr. A transmits an e mail including the information reply request selected as shown in . In this case if the reception side terminal of the user Mr. B transmits a reply e mail including the reply information in accordance with the information reply request the transmission side terminal of the user Mr. A who received the reply e mail can view the information on the present location and transportation corresponding to the information reply request.

According to the third embodiment the transmission side terminal can request a reply including not only the present location and the address information of the corresponding party but also various information of the corresponding party selectively in the same manner as the above second embodiment and the reception side terminal can select one among items of the information reply request received and transmit the reply information to the transmission side terminal. Therefore the e mail composing unit of the reception side cellular phone according to the present embodiment has a selection unit not shown for displaying the items of the information reply request received on the display unit and receiving selection of items of the reply information to transmit based on input from the input unit .

The following is a description about the operation to receive and reply to the e mail by the reception side cellular phone according to the present embodiment with reference to a flowchart shown in and examples of the display screen shown in . Since the operation to transmit the e mail by the transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment is the same as that of the second embodiment a description thereof is omitted.

The operation of the reception side cellular phone according to the present embodiment differs from the operation to compose the reply e mail in the reply information e mail composing mode according to the second embodiment that is the operation after step S. At step S the e mail composing unit controls the display unit to display items of the information reply request selected and associated with the special character for inquiry in the e mail received from the transmission side terminal. Next the selection unit of the e mail composing unit receives an input to select items of information among the information reply request displayed to permit to be disclosed as the reply information based on an input operation by the user using the input unit step S . Then when input by the user to confirm the items of the reply information to transmit is detected at step S the e mail composing unit performs the transmission process of the reply e mail and performs the same operation as that of the second embodiment after step S.

When receiving the e mail having the selected information reply request attached thereto through the operation described above the reception side cellular phone displays the received e mail including the special character for inquiry on the display unit as shown in for example. Then when the operation shifts to the reply information e mail composing mode in response to a selecting input of the special character for inquiry the reception side cellular phone displays the items of the information reply request inquired by the user of the transmission side terminal as shown in . In an example shown in the information reply request selected and transmitted by the user Mr. A of the transmission side terminal includes 4 items of PRESENT LOCATION TRANSPORTATION NEAREST STATION and NEARBY LANDMARK . By input to select the information to permit to be disclosed among the items and to confirm it the user Mr. B of the reception side terminal transmits the reply information selectively. In the example shown in the user of the reception side terminal selects 3 items of PRESENT LOCATION TRANSPORTATION and NEAREST STATION among items of the information reply request so as to permit to be disclosed as the reply information.

It is to be noted that according to the present embodiment when the user of the reception side terminal selects items of the reply information among the items of the information reply request the terminal can be controlled to automatically obtain contents of the reply information or to determine the contents of the reply information depending on the selecting input by the user in accordance with the items selected.

That is for information of the PRESENT LOCATION for example it is possible to select Automatic Acquisition or User Input . For the Automatic Acquisition the location information of the terminal that the e mail composing unit obtains by controlling the GPS processing unit is used as the reply information. For the User Input the user is prompted to input following instructions of a screen display unit and the information based on the input by the user is used as the reply information. For example it may happen that the reception side cellular phone does not have the GPS function or cannot use the GPS function as being in an area incapable of receiving the radio waves from the GPS satellite. In such cases the input unit receives input of the textual information by the user and the e mail composing unit uses the textual information that the user input as the information on the present location. Alternatively it is also possible to support input of the address information by narrowing down to a name of a place by selecting from among alternatives sequentially. shows that it is set to automatically obtain the present location by using the GPS function of the cellular phone .

In regard to information on TRANSPORTATION it may happen that for example the cellular phone does not have a function to automatically determine the transportation or cannot use the function. In such cases the e mail composing unit as shown in can list candidates for transportations currently available and receive user input to select one among the candidates so as to use the information as the reply information.

By selecting one between the automatic acquisition and the user input in accordance with the items of the information reply request as described above it is possible to improve accuracy preciseness of the reply information to transmit to the corresponding party. Selection between the automatic acquisition and the user input may be determined by the user each time the user selects the reply information among the information reply request after starting the reply information e mail composing mode preset as a user setting for each of the items or determined based on an initial setting.

After the user of the reception side terminal confirms the selection of the reply information and completes to compose the reply e mail a screen as shown in is displayed on the display unit so as to receive input to start transmission. Then when the transmission process is started by input to start the transmission selection of the icon TRANSMIT a screen as shown in can be displayed so as to indicate that the selected reply information is being obtained. After completion in obtainment of the reply information it is preferred to display a screen as shown in so as to inform the user that the selected reply information has been transmitted together with the e mail.

Various reply information such as the location information of the reception side terminal which the user of the reception side terminal permitted to be disclosed among items of the information reply request is associated with the special character for reply. Therefore based on input to select the special character for reply by the user of the transmission side terminal the control unit displays items of the reply information selected and transmitted by the user of the reception side as shown in for example. Based on input to select the reply information by the user of the transmission side terminal the control unit displays various kinds of reply information associated with the special character for reply on the display unit . It is preferred to show accuracy of each item of the information to the user of the transmission side terminal by indicating whether the information is automatically obtained by the reception side terminal or is based on input by the user of the reception side terminal for each item of the reply information as shown in FIG. .

Thereby the user Mr. A of the transmission side terminal who wishes to know not only the present location of the corresponding party but also various kinds of relevant information can inquire for them quickly by a simple operation. In addition the user Mr. B who received the inquiry may select the information to permit to be disclosed among the inquires based on the received e mail easily and quickly compose the reply e mail and transmit it. Moreover the user Mr. A who received the reply e mail can also know the information permitted to be disclosed by the user Mr. B quickly by an easy operation.

According to the fourth embodiment if the TRANSPORTATION information is included in the information reply request transmitted by the transmission side terminal in the above second and the third embodiments the transportation being used by the user of the reception side terminal is estimated easily but highly accurately as the reply information corresponding to the TRANSPORTATION information.

The following is a description about an operation to estimate the transportation when the reception side cellular phone transmits the reply e mail according to the present embodiment with reference to a flowchart shown in and examples of the display screen shown in . It is to be noted that the operation to transmit the e mail by the transmission side cellular phone according to the present embodiment and the operation of the reception side cellular phone from reception of the e mail including the information reply request to shift to the reply information e mail composing mode in response to the e mail step S are the same as those in the second and the third embodiment. Therefore descriptions of those operations are omitted.

At step S the reply e mail is composed by selecting items about the information of the reception side terminal to permit to be disclosed as the reply information among items of the information reply request from the transmission side terminal and associating the reply information with the special character for reply. FIG. shows an example of screen display when the user performs an input operation such that the reception side terminal automatically obtains the present location and automatically discriminates the transportation among the items of the information reply request of the transmission side terminal. Composing of the reply e mail is completed when this input by the user is confirmed Yes of step S .

At step S when a screen as shown in is displayed and the reply e mail composed starts to be transmitted by user s operation selection of the icon TRANSMIT the operation shifts to step S. At step S the e mail composing unit determines whether the items of the information reply request included in the reply e mail to transmit includes the request for information on the transportation of the corresponding party estimated by automatic determination. If the reply information selected in accordance with the information reply request includes the request for the information on the transportation estimated by automatic determination the e mail composing unit controls the GPS processing unit to obtain the location information of the terminal itself and obtains a present time from the timing unit step S . At this point it is preferred to display as shown in for example to inform the user that the necessary information is being obtained.

Next if the reply information includes not only the information on the transportation but also information necessary to obtain by internal processing of the cellular phone or by communication with an external server the e mail composing unit obtains corresponding reply information by controlling function units step S . Then the e mail composing unit attaches the information obtained to the reply e mail step S .

After obtaining necessary information the e mail composing unit again obtains at a predetermined time interval the location information of the terminal itself and the present time at which the location information is obtained step S . After obtaining the location information and time information for the second time the e mail composing unit controls the communication unit to transmit two pairs of the location information and the time information to an external server not shown . When receiving two pairs of the location information and the time information the external server first determines whether the reception side terminal is moving along a railway or a street or not moving but staying in a building by using two detected locations and calculates a moving distance between the two locations and a time difference between the detected points of two locations. Next an average moving speed is calculated from the moving distance between the two points obtained and a time taken to move between the two points and thereby a transportation used to move between the two points is estimated from results of them step S .

This estimation of the transportation is performed based on information such as two locations of the reception side terminal time information and the average moving speed obtained by the external server. For example when it is determined that the both locations detected are on the railway and the average moving speed is 50 km per hour from the times detected twice and the distance it is possible to estimate the transportation as moving on a train and furthermore to determine a name of the train line from the detected locations. In addition for example when it is determined that the locations detected twice are both on the street and the average moving speed is no less than a predetermined speed from the times detected twice and the distance it is possible to estimate the transportation as moving by a car or bus . Moreover for example when the average moving speed is below a predetermined speed it is possible to estimate the transportation as moving on foot . It is further possible to determine a name of the street from the detected locations.

The external server transmits the information on a result of estimation for the transportation obtained thereby to the reception side terminal. When the reception side terminal receives information on estimated transportation of the terminal itself the e mail composing unit attaches the information on estimated transportation to the reply e mail step S and transmits the reply e mail step S .

Since it is considered that it may require a while to obtain information on location and time for the second time after the transmission processing of the e mail is started in such a case it is preferred to display as shown in and to indicate that the reply e mail including the reply information will be automatically transmitted after obtaining the information for the second time. It is also possible to display the screen as shown in when transmission of the reply e mail is completed by obtaining the information on the estimated transportation and attaching the information to the reply e mail so as to inform the user of completion of the transmission of the reply e mail including the reply information. In addition the time interval to obtain the location and time information twice may be set in advance assuming a certain movement of the terminal in the period of time or may use appropriate information pairs among location and time information obtained for several times at predetermined intervals.

If the items of the information reply request included in the reply e mail to be transmitted does not include the request to estimate the transportation of the corresponding party by automatic determination at step S the same operations are performed as those at the steps S and S in according to the second embodiment steps S and S .

In the transmission side terminal which received the reply e mail transmitted from the reception side terminal as described above when the mode to display the reply e mail received is started the special character for reply having the reply information associated therewith is displayed on the display unit as shown in for example. Based on user input to select the special character for reply using the input unit the items of the reply information associated with the special character for reply are displayed as shown in for example. In for example the information on the present location automatically determined and on the transportation automatically discriminated is associated as the reply information with the specific character for reply.

In response to user input to select the PRESENT LOCATION on the display shown in the transmission side terminal displays the address information as contents of the present location by texts as shown in in the same manner as the first embodiment and displays the map information see in response to user input to select DISPLAY MAP .

Moreover in response to user input to select TRANSPORTATION on the display shown in the transmission side terminal displays the estimated information on the transportation of the reception side terminal automatically discriminated and received from the external server on the display unit as shown in or . It is preferred to display the transportation on the display unit neatly arranging words such as names of the train or street and the transportation based on the processing by the application incorporated in the cellular phone such that the user can view them easily.

Accordingly by responding to the information reply request through the automatic acquisition the reception side terminal which received the reply request for the information on the transportation from the transmission side terminal can inform the corresponding party of significantly simple and accurate estimated information on the transportation.

It is to be noted that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth above but may be varied or altered in a multiple of manners. For example although the information that may be handled by each function of the mobile terminal is divided into each of the above embodiments for convenience of description the functions described in different embodiments may be joined appropriately or combined. Moreover the selectable items of the information reply request in the second to fourth embodiments are purely examples and a number of information can be exchanged in accordance with various kinds of information which can be obtained by the cellular phone or by communicating with an external server.

In each of the above embodiments the reception side cellular phone converts the location information of the terminal itself obtained using the GPS processing unit into the address information by accessing the external server before transmitting the reply information. However it is also possible to design the whole system such that the reception side attaches the location information obtained using the GPS without converting it into the address information and the cellular phone on the transmission side connects the external server appropriately to convert the location information into the address information.

In addition according to each of the above embodiments in order to convert the location information by the GPS to the address information the cellular phone accesses the external server such that the conversion process is performed by the server. However it is also possible to store information on the relationship between the location information by the GPS and the address information in the memory unit of the transmission side terminal or the reception side terminal in advance so that the terminal performs conversion process to the address information without accessing the external server. Similarly to the address information it is also possible to store the map information data for drawing the map in the memory unit of the terminal in advance so that the terminal draws the map from the location information by the GPS or the address information by referring to the memory unit without accessing the external server.

In the fourth embodiment the reception side terminal transmits the information thereon to the external server and requests the external server to reply with estimated information on transportation of the terminal. However in this case also it is possible to store a database for estimating the transportation from the information that the reception side terminal obtains in the memory unit of the reception side terminal in advance and estimate the transportation within the terminal based on the database.

Furthermore in each of the above embodiments the mobile terminal obtains its location information by receiving the radio waves from the GPS satellite. However the location information of the terminal itself is not necessarily obtained by using the GPS but also may be obtained by for example estimating the location information of the terminal based on the location information of the base station specified by an base station ID included in information received in a communication with the base station. It is also possible to use both the location information by the GPS and the location information of the base station in combination and if the location information by the GPS cannot be obtained estimate the location information of the terminal itself by using the location information of the base station.

According to the present invention a transmission side terminal composes an e mail including a predetermined special character special character for inquiry with which an information reply request for obtaining information on a destination mobile terminal of the e mail is associated. Thereby it is possible to inquire about the information on the destination mobile terminal of the e mail by a simple and quick operation in a manner the corresponding party can easily respond. In addition if a received e mail includes the special character for inquiry a reception side terminal composes a reply e mail including a predetermined special character special character for reply with which reply information in accordance with the information reply request is associated. Thereby it is possible to transmit information such as location information of the terminal itself by a simple and quick operation based on the information request form the transmission side in a manner the terminal sending the information reply request can easily recognize.

