---

title: Lithium-ion electrolytes with fluoroester co-solvents
abstract: An embodiment lithium-ion battery comprising a lithium-ion electrolyte of ethylene carbonate; ethyl methyl carbonate; and at least one solvent selected from the group consisting of trifluoroethyl butyrate, ethyl trifluoroacetate, trifluoroethyl acetate, methyl pentafluoropropionate, and 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl propionate. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08748046&OS=08748046&RS=08748046
owner: University of Southern California
number: 08748046
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 897 316 filed 25 Jan. 2007.

The invention claimed herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Future NASA missions to explore Mars the Moon and the outer planets are expected to require rechargeable batteries that can operate over a wide temperature range 60 C. to 60 C. to satisfy the requirements of various applications including landers rovers and penetrators. Some future applications typically may require high specific energy batteries that can operate at very low temperatures while still providing adequate performance and stability at higher temperatures. In addition many of these applications envisioned by the Exploration Systems Research and Technology ESRT program of NASA will require improved safety due to their use by humans. The performance of currently known state of art lithium ion systems is severely limited at temperatures below 40 C. and above 30 C. The limited performance at very low temperatures is believed to be due to poor electrolyte conductivity poor lithium intercalation kinetics over the electrode surface layers and poor ionic diffusion in the electrode bulk.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

For some embodiments anode comprises MCMB Mesocarbon Microbeads carbon and cathode comprises LiNiCOO lithium nickel cobalt oxide . Other embodiments may use other kinds of anodes or cathodes. For example other embodiments may use cathodes comprising lithium cobalt oxide LiCoO lithium manganese oxide LiMnO lithium nickel cobalt aluminum oxide LiNiCoAlO lithium iron phosphate LiPO and lithium nickel cobalt manganese oxide LiNiCoMnO and LiFePOto name a few examples. As another example the stoichiometries for nickel cobalt and manganese may vary so that for some embodiments a cathode may comprise LiMnOand LiNiCoMnO where x y z and u denote variable stoichiometries.

The lithium ion electrolyte solution comprises a lithium salt such as lithium hexafluoro phosphate LiPF dissolved into a co solvent to provide a lithium ion electrolytic solution electrolyte . Other embodiments may use other types of lithium salt such as lithium tetrafluoroborate LiBF lithium bis oxalate borate LiBOB or LiB CO lithium hexafluoroarensate LiAsF lithium perclorate LiClO lithium trifluoromethanesulfonate LiCFSO and lithium bistrifluoromethanesulfonate sulfonyl imide LiN SOCF to name a few. Also some embodiments may utilize a mixture of such lithium salts.

During discharge the reaction CLi C Li xe where e denotes an electron takes place at anode and the reaction xLi xe LiNiCuOLiNiCOOtakes place at cathode for an embodiment with a cathode comprising LiNiCuO . During charge these reactions are reversed.

A number of ternary co solvent embodiments were investigated comprising ethylene carbonate EC ethyl methyl carbonate EMC and a fluoroester also referred to as fluorinated ester solvent selected from the group consisting of 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl butyrate CHFOor CHCHCHCOCHCF Chemical Abstract Services registry number CAS 371 27 7 abbreviated in these letters patent as TFEB ethyl trifluoroacetate CHFO or CFCOCHCH CAS 383 63 1 abbreviated in these letters patent as ETFA 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl acetate CHFO or CHCOCHCF CAS 406 95 1 abbreviated in these letters patent as TFEA and methyl pentafluoropropionate CHFO or CFCFCOCH CAS 378 75 6 abbreviated in these letters patent as MPFP. In particular these co solvents were blended in carbonate based electrolytes to give the following electrolyte solutions 

A number of experimental glass wound cylindrical lithium ion cells with MCMB carbon anodes and LiNiCOOcathodes with Li metal reference electrodes were fabricated to study the above listed electrolytes. Results of those experiments are provided in Table 1. The last two entries in Table 1 are electrolytes comprising 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC 20 80 v v and 1.0 M LiPFin EC DEC diethyl carbonate DMC dimethyl carbonate 1 1 1 v v . These two electrolytes serve as baselines for comparison.

As shown in Table 1 all cells displayed good reversibility at room temperature and minimal reactivity during the formation cycling with the exception of the cell containing the MPFP based electrolyte. The high coulombic efficiency and comparable irreversible capacity losses are indirectly related to the overall stability of the solutions and the electrode filming characteristics. Note that the fluoroester based solutions do not display deleterious effects that may limit the reversible capacity or may hinder the kinetics of the lithium intercalation and de intercalation processes. In some cases some cells displayed much higher efficiencies and lower cumulative irreversible capacity losses such as the cells containing TFEB in low proportion compared with the comparable baseline solution.

Of the electrolytes listed above the embodiment formulations comprising 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 v v and 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC TFEA 20 60 20 v v yielded the greatest improvements in terms of performance resulting in improved low temperature performance and greater high temperature resilience. As shown in good reversibility was observed with the cell containing the 1.0 M LiPFEC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 v v electrolyte being comparable with the baseline 1.0 M LiPFelectrolyte formulation. In curve shows voltage vs. discharge capacity in Ampere hour units for the first discharge cycle and curve shows this relationship for the fifth discharge cycle. A 25 mA current was used to charge the cell to 4.10 V and discharge was at 25 mA to 2.75 V all at a room temperature of 23 C.

The cells were evaluated at the lower temperature of 40 C. as shown in . Excellent performance was again obtained with the cells containing the ethyl trifluoroacetate ETFA and trifluoroethyl butyrate TFEB co solvents with over 70 of the room temperature capacity being delivered at a discharge rate of approximately C 16. Again for embodiments with the TFEB containing electrolyte much less polarization was observed compared to the baseline with a higher operating voltage throughout the discharge.

As seen from embodiments with ethyl trifluoroacetate ETFA and trifluoroethyl butyrate TFEB co solvents have been demonstrated to result in enhanced performance at low temperature compared with all carbonate based electrolyte baseline formulations. These results are summarized in Tables 2A 2B and 2C. It is believed that these results may presumably be due to the favorable physical properties of the fluoroester co solvents coupled with desirable film forming characteristics at the electrode electrolyte interface resulting in improved lithium kinetics. This has been indirectly confirmed by electrochemical characterization of the cells including electrochemical impedance spectroscopy Tafel polarization measurements and linear polarization measurements.

In addition to evaluating the low temperature performance of the cells the high temperature resilience of the cells was tested by subjecting them to increasingly higher temperature storage periods. Each storage period consisted of storing the cells in a full state of charge for 10 days in an open circuit condition. Although it would be expected that the performance degradation is less pronounced if the cells are stored in a partial state of charge a fully charged condition was selected for the test to accelerate any deleterious electrochemical electrolyte reactions. As illustrated in Tables 3A 3B and 3C the cell containing the 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 v v electrolyte sustained the least amount of performance degradation as a result of the high temperature storage testing. For example after being subjected to 10 days at 55 C. the TFEB containing cells retained about 75 of the reversible capacity exhibited prior to the storage period whereas the binary baseline formulation only delivered about 59 of their initial capacity.

As described so far a number embodiments comprising fluoroester based co solvents in Li ion electrolytes including trifluoroethyl butyrate TFEB ethyl trifluoroacetate ETFA trifluoroethyl acetate TFEA and methyl pentafluoropropionate MPFP were found to provide good performance over a wide range of temperatures. It is believed that these embodiments have good safety characteristics due to their low flammability associated with their halogenated nature. Of the solvents described so far trifluoroethyl butyrate TFEB was demonstrated to yield the best performance with improved low temperature capability and high temperature resilience. In addition to the above described embodiments other embodiments utilizing TFEB as a co solvent have been found by developing multi component electrolytes which also contain non halogenated esters film forming additives thermal stabilizing additives and flame retardant additives.

Several factors may influence the low temperature performance of lithium ion cells including lithium ion mobility in the electrolyte solution electrolyte conductivity cell design electrode thickness separator porosity and separator wetting properties. Of these parameters the electrolyte properties are presumably the most dominant in that sufficient conductivity is a necessary condition for good performance at low temperatures. In designing electrolytes with high conductivity at low temperatures the solvents should possess a combination of several critical properties such as high dielectric constant low viscosity and adequate coordination behavior as well as appropriate liquid ranges and salt solubilities in the medium.

Some embodiments comprise a quaternary co solvent that includes TFEB as well as other non fluorinated ester co solvents such as methyl butyrate MB ethyl propionate EP and propyl butyrate PB . These non fluorinated esters may improve the low temperature performance due to their low viscosity and melting points. Furthermore some embodiments make use of vinylene carbonate VC in conjunction with fluorinated esters with the intent of producing robust solid electrolyte interface SEI layers on the electrodes. VC has previously been reported to be an effective additive in improving the high temperature cycle life and storage characteristics and is believed to sacrificially polymerize on the electrode surfaces producing protective films preventing further electrolyte reaction at the interface.

In addition some embodiments make use of dimethyl acetamide DMAc as an electrolyte additive in conjunction with fluorinated ester co solvents which has been demonstrated to be a thermal stabilizing agent acting to reversibly bind with PF preventing LiPFand carbonate solvents from decomposition at high temperature. It is envisioned that the use of VC DMAc or both may improve the life characteristics and high temperature resilience of electrolyte formulations that also contain fluorinated ester co solvents which may impart improved operating temperature range and safety.

Embodiments may also include other fluorinated ester co solvents in addition to the ones previously investigated such as 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl propionate C5H7F3 or CH3CH2CO2CH2CF3 referred to as TFEP. These new electrolyte formulations were compared with the previously described solutions namely 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 v v and 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC 20 80 v v which were treated as baseline solutions. Accordingly the following electrolytic solutions were prepared and evaluated 

These were compared with 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 v v and 1.0 M LiPFin EC EMC 20 80 v v which served as baselines.

In addition to the embodiments described above some embodiments comprising TFEB may also comprise flame retardant additives such as triphenyl phosphate triethyl phosphate tributyl phosphate and bis 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methyl phosphonate to reduce the flammability of the electrolytes.

Lithium ion batteries with MCMB carbon anodes and LiNiCOOcathodes were fabricated with the electrolytes listed above and measurements related to the cells are provided in Table 4. As shown in Table 4 all cells with the formulations listed above displayed good reversibility at room temperature and relatively minimal reactivity during the formation cycling. The high coulombic efficiency and comparable irreversible capacity losses are believed to be indirectly related to the overall stability of the solutions and the electrode filming characteristics.

Note that the fluoroester based solutions do not display deleterious effects that limit the reversible capacity or hinder the kinetics of the lithium intercalation and de intercalation processes. From the formation data it may be observed that the trifluoroethyl butyrate solutions appear to produce more desirable surface films compared with trifluoroethyl propionate as suggested by the lower cumulative irreversible capacity losses and higher efficiency values with regard to the quaternary formulations comprising non fluorinated ester co solvents propyl butyrate displayed the most desirable filming attributes suggesting enhanced stability compared to methyl butyrate and ethyl propionate vinylene carbonate appears to be an effective film forming agent leading to stable cells with low irreversible capacity loss and high efficiency and DMAc appears to have some reactivity during the formation cycling.

When the cells described were evaluated at 30 C. as shown in good performance was again obtained with the cells comprising the fluorinated ester co solvents. Note that the cells comprising the EC EMC TFEB 20 60 20 electrolyte with either VC or DMAc or the EC EMC TFEB EP 20 60 20 electrolyte performed comparable to the baseline EC EMC 20 80 electrolyte with all cells providing about 79 to 80 of the room temperature capacity at 30 C. Many cells also performed well at 40 C. with about 69 to 74 of the room temperature capacity being delivered at a discharge rate of about C 16 as shown in .

A number of test cells with lithium ion electrolytes comprising fluorinated ester co solvents including trifluoroethyl butyrate TFEB and trifluoroethyl propionate TFEP were tested with their performance described in this specification. These electrolytes were found to deliver good performance over a wide temperature range in experimental lithium ion cells. The general approach taken in the development of these electrolyte formulations was to optimize the type and composition of the co solvents in ternary and quaternary solutions focusing upon adequate stability e.g. EC content for anode passivation and EMC content for lowering the viscosity and widening the temperature range while still providing good stability enhancing the inherent safety characteristics incorporation of fluorinated esters and widening the temperature range of operation the use of both fluorinated and non fluorinated esters . Furthermore the use of electrolyte additives such as VC SEI promoter and DMAc thermal stabilizing additive are envisioned to provide enhanced high temperature life characteristics. For some embodiments the concentrations of VC and DMAc may be relatively low such as for example in the range of 0.10 and 5.0 by weight. It is anticipated that embodiment electrolyte solutions may offer improved performance when incorporated into hermitically sealed large capacity prototype cells especially if all electrolyte components are highly pure.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below. For example other non fluorinated ester co solvents that may be used are methyl propionate methyl acetate ethyl acetate propyl acetate ethyl butyrate butyl butyrate and propyl propionate. Furthermore it should be appreciated that experimental results were described for embodiments with specific concentrations of the co solvents but embodiments are not limited to these specific concentrations. For example for some embodiments the EC content may vary from 10 to 50 the EMC content may vary from 10 to 80 the fluorinated ester co solvent content may vary from 5 to 80 and the non fluorinated ester co solvent content may vary from 10 to 80 . Furthermore for some embodiments the lithium salt concentration e.g. LiPF may vary from 0.50 M to 1.50 M.

These concentration ranges are merely given to provide examples and some embodiments may have different ranges of concentrations. For example the lithium salt concentration may be between 0.80 M and 1.20 M where very low temperature performance benefits from the lower end of this range and where more moderate temperature and high power applications may benefit from the higher end of this range. As another example the concentration of the non fluorinated esters may be in the range of 10 to 80 .

Throughout the description of the embodiments various mathematical relationships are used to describe relationships among one or more quantities. These relationships are in practice not satisfied exactly and should therefore be interpreted as designed for relationships. One of ordinary skill in the art may design various working embodiments to satisfy various mathematical relationships but these relationships can only be met within the tolerances of the technology available to the practitioner.

Accordingly in the following claims it is to be understood that claimed mathematical relationships can in practice only be met within the tolerances or precision of the technology available to the practitioner and that the scope of the claimed subject matter includes those embodiments that substantially satisfy the mathematical relationships so claimed.

