---

title: Implicit social graph edge strengths
abstract: Techniques for calculating edge strengths for edges of a social graph are described herein. These techniques may determine an affinity between a first user of a social graph and a second user of the social graph. Based at least in part on this affinity, a strength of an edge connecting the first user and the second user on the social graph may be calculated and assigned to the corresponding edge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606721&OS=08606721&RS=08606721
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08606721
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080311
---
A social graph is a social structure comprising nodes that connect together via edges or ties to show some sort of interdependency or relationship between the nodes. For instance the nodes may represent people organizations or other sorts of entities. The edges between the nodes may represent interdependency or a relationship between the nodes such as friends co workers values visions dislikes and or the like. In one context nodes of a social graph represent users of a social networking site. The edges meanwhile connect those users that have chosen to be within one another s network i.e. connects users that are friends .

In some instances the larger a social graph becomes the more useful the social graph becomes to users. As the users of the social graph become increasingly reliant on the graph the graph may likewise become more valuable to the owner or possessor of the graph e.g. the social networking site . It is possible however for a social graph to continue to grow to a point where the number of users and edge connections dilute the value of the graph itself. Here the sheer breadth of the social graph makes it difficult for the graph owner or another entity to fully understand the relationships between the users of the social graph.

This disclosure is directed to among others calculating edge strengths for edges of a social graph. As discussed above a social graph may be a powerful tool for both users of the graph as well as the owner or possessor of the graph. However traditional social graphs often treat each edge connection as homogenous. For instance if a social networking site employs a social graph each member of a network of a particular user e.g. each friend colleague or other connection of the particular user may be viewed as having an equally strong relationship with the particular user. When the particular user acquires many friends or members of the network however it may become difficult to differentiate between those network members that are truly strongly connected and those network members that are less strongly connected. As such the social graph may become so large that the value of the graph actually decreases due to this inability to differentiate amongst the many relationships.

The described techniques therefore calculate edge strengths for some or all edges of a social graph in order to differentiate between the many edges of the social graph. The calculated edge strengths may therefore help to better understand relationships within the social graph when compared to traditional homogeneous social graphs. As discussed above the nodes of social graphs may represent people organizations or other sorts of entities. The edges between the nodes meanwhile may represent interdependency or a relationship between the nodes such as friends co workers values visions dislikes and or the like.

In one context nodes of a social graph represent users of a social networking site. Here an edge strength may be calculated for each edge that connects a particular user to another user e.g. each friend of the particular user . Relatively high edge strengths may accordingly indicate a relatively high importance of the corresponding user when compared to users corresponding to relatively low edge strengths. In addition to indicating relative user importance edge scores may similarly indicate multiple other aspects of other types of social graphs e.g. similarities dissimilarities etc. . Furthermore these techniques may calculate strengths between users of the social graph that are not connected or have yet to be connected via edges.

In some embodiments the described techniques analyze implicit data in order to calculate edge strengths. For instance user activity and or behavior may be analyzed in order to determine an affinity between users. In turn this determined affinity may be used in whole or in part to calculate and assign an edge strength to an edge that connects the two users. The described techniques may analyze multiple different types of user activity to determine the affinity. In some instances the affinity may be determined by weighting the activity e.g. according to type frequency etc. and summing the weighted activities.

Once edge strengths have been calculated and assigned the owner of the social graph or another entity may leverage this data in multiple ways. For instance an entity could leverage this data for use in advertising suggesting gifts expanding or contracting a user s network categorizing and or displaying relationships in a user s network or in any other way. While a few uses of the described techniques have been discussed it is to be appreciated that numerous other entities may leverage these techniques in numerous other ways.

The described techniques for calculating edge strengths for edges of a social graph may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. One example implementation and context is provided with reference to the following figures as described below in more detail. It is to be appreciated however that the following implementation and context is but one of many.

In architecture a representative user employs a user computing device to access a representative content site associated with a service provider . Content site may comprise any sort of site that supports user interaction including social networking sites e commerce sites informational sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. Additionally the site is representative of proprietary sites that receive requests and provide content over proprietary networks other than the Internet and public web. In addition or in lieu of site other embodiments may employ any other type of entity that may employ or leverage a social graph.

While the illustrated example represents user accessing content site of service provider the described techniques may equally apply in instances where user interacts with service provider over the phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored software applications set top boxes etc. .

Here user accesses content site via a network . Network may include any one or combination of multiple different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet and wireless networks. User computing device meanwhile may be implemented as any number of computing devices including as a personal computer a laptop computer a portable digital assistant PDA a cell phone a set top box a game console a personal media player PMP and so forth. User computing device is equipped with one or more processors and memory to store applications and data. An application such as browser or other client application running on device facilitates access to site over network .

Site is hosted on one or more servers . . . N having processing and storage capabilities. In one implementation the servers might be arranged in a cluster or as a server farm although other server architectures may also be used to host the site. The site is capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various pages of content that can be rendered at user computing device for viewing by user . For instance and as illustrated site may serve a page to computing device . Page may comprise any sort of content such as a user profile a search page a discussion forum or any other type of page.

In some instances site may comprise a social networking site. Here servers N may store or otherwise have access to a user profile database and a social graph . User profile database may store or otherwise have access to one or more user profiles . . . Q . Each of user profiles Q may correspond to a user of social networking site e.g. user and so forth and may contain information about the corresponding user. In some instances where site comprises a social networking site each of user profiles Q may be used to create and serve a profile page for each corresponding user. For instance page may comprise a profile page for user or for another user of site .

As illustrated site may also employ social graph . As discussed above social graph may comprise multiple nodes that connect to one another via edges or ties. These nodes may represent individuals e.g. user organizations another entity or a combination thereof. In the illustrated example the nodes of social graph each represent a user of site .

Also as illustrated social graph may comprise one or more networks . Here each of networks represents a network associated with a user of site . A network for a particular user such as user may comprise a subset i.e. zero or more of the users of site . This subset may comprise for instance a collection of users that together with user have chosen to be a part of the user s community. In some instances inclusion of a particular user into another user s network is symmetrical. That is if a first user e.g. user includes a second user in the first user s network upon the second user s request then the second user also includes the first user user in the second user s network. When visually represented an edge therefore connects a node representing the first user with a node representing the second user. Note however that in other instances each user may choose to add or remove users from a corresponding network in an asymmetrical manner.

When taken together the combination of networks may make up the entirety of social graph . illustrates a portion of social graph . As illustrated portion includes multiple nodes and multiple edges connecting some of the illustrated nodes. Again in the current example the nodes represent users of site . Of course it is to be appreciated that the nodes may represent users organizations and or other entities in other implementations.

As discussed above traditional social graphs may represent each edge connecting two nodes as homogeneous. That is a traditional social graph may treat each edge the same regardless of whether the affinity between the two represented users is extremely strong or extremely weak. As such entities that employ these traditional social graphs may view each relationship within the social graph as equal when in reality the relationships may in fact differ radically.

To better understand these differing relationships within social graph architecture includes an edge strength calculation service . Edge strength calculation service may function to analyze data to determine strengths of edges in social graph . For instance service may determine these edge strengths for one or more of networks or for all or substantially all e.g. 75 90 etc. of social graph . Service may analyze implicit data e.g. user behavior or activity explicit data e.g. data stored in profiles Q or a combination thereof. In some instances these determined edge strengths are based on an affinity between users associated with the nodes.

As portion illustrates the edge strengths calculated by service may combine with social graph to define a social graph that includes edges of varying strengths. Here portion illustrates the varying strengths via line thickness. That is a relatively thick line represents a relationship that is relatively stronger or more important that a relatively thinner line. Of course it is to be appreciated that edge strengths may be illustrated in many other ways including via numerical associations percentages hatching or in any other manner.

Furthermore edge strength calculation service may calculate symmetrical edge strengths directional edge strengths or a combination thereof. For instance service may calculate a symmetrical edge strength an overall strength that represents an edge s strength both from the first node to the second node and from the second node to the first node. This symmetrical edge strength may measure an overall affinity between the relationship of the corresponding users. Conversely service may calculate a directional edge strength such as a strength from the first node to a second node or a strength from the second node to the first node. This directional strength may represent an affinity of a first user associated with the first node to a second user associated with the second node or vice versa .

As illustrated edge strength calculation service includes or has access to a user behavior database a user behavior analysis module and an edge strength calculator . User behavior database stores or has access to behavior of users who are associated with site . User behavior database may receive this data from site from one or more other entities may track the data itself or may acquire this data based on a combination thereof. The stored behavior may comprise activity on site activity apart from site as well as any other type of user behavior.

In the current example where site comprises a social networking site the stored behavior may include user activity on the site. This activity may include for instance user sending messages to or receiving messages from other users of site leaving notes for or receiving notes from other users of site selecting items in a news feed of other users or having users select items a news feed associated with user buying gifts for or receiving gifts from other users and or writing an endorsement for or receiving an endorsement from another user. This activity may also include sending and or receiving invitations for events using functionality of site . In addition to allowing users to send invitations site may also track acceptances and declinations of the invitations. By doing site or another entity that tracks this information may determine information about the events such as the size of the events the context of the event who is schedule to attend the events and the like.

Note that in some instances a news feed may represent a portion of a user profile page that includes information about certain users recent activity e.g. users in the network or user which may be automatically updated. Additionally or alternatively the activity stored within database may include setting up appointments that include other users of site being marked as being in a picture stored on or accessible by site with other users or attending an event with other users of site .

The behavior stored in database may also comprise behavior or activity that is not associated with site . This may include for instance determining who reads an online article authored by user or whose articles user reads determining who user makes calls to or receives calls from on a mobile phone determining who user travels with or determining groups that user is a part of

Additionally this behavior or activity stored in database may be for example gathered from online gaming activities which may allow users to play games or otherwise interact with one another over one or more networks. For instance the identity of the users interacting with one another may be logged and stored in database . Other information may include a frequency of play with the users identities of users that engage in chats with one another e.g. via a voice or text chat identities of users who send and or receive invitations to play or interact over the network identities of users who send and or receive invitations to join a network of friends or the like. These gaming services an application on a user s gaming console or any other entity may then provide this information to edge strength calculation service .

In still other instances database may store or otherwise have access to information about identities of users who communicate with one another outside of site in other ways. For instance database may receive information e.g. caller ID information about who user has spoken to over the phone a frequency with which user speaks to such people a length of these conversations and the like. Similarly database may receive corresponding information for short message service SMS communications or any other type of communications within or outside of site . For both voice and textual communications over a user s phone the user s phone may include in some implementations an application that monitors this information. The application may then communicate this information over a network to a web service such as edge strength calculation service .

Additionally communications via email may also be monitored for use in determining affinities between users. Here a user s email client may include a plug in or other type of application that monitors who the corresponding user sends and or receives email from as well as the frequency of such emails. For instance envision that user sends and receives frequent emails from a first user while sending and receiving much fewer emails from a second user. When provided to edge strength calculation service this information may tend to show that user and the first user have a relatively greater affinity with one another than user and the second user.

In addition to analyzing the frequency of emails the email client plugin may analyze other characteristics of the email communications. For instance this plugin or other application may determine a frequency with which users appear in a main line of an email the To line a carbon copy line cc line and or the blind carbon copy line bcc line . Again service may deduce that users who are merely cc ed on an email may be less close to the sending user than is a user who appears in the main address line. In other contexts the opposite may be true.

Furthermore the email client plugin or a plugin associated with a user s calendaring application may analyze a user s appointments. For instance the plugin may determine the identity of users who attend meetings or events with the user as well as a frequency with which these users do so. Additionally other heuristics of the meetings such as a group size meeting context and the like may be analyzed to help determine affinities between users. Again the plugin may communicate this information to service for use in determining affinities and calculating edge strengths.

As described below this behavior and or activity may be used to calculate an affinity between users represented on social graph . As such while multiple illustrative examples have been listed it is to be appreciated that user behavior database may similarly track any other sort of behavior and or activity that may be useful in determining or estimating affinity between users or other entities.

Next user behavior analysis module receives and analyzes the stored user behavior to determine affinities between users associated with nodes in social graph . For instance imagine that a network associated with a first user of site includes three other users each represented by a corresponding node in social graph . As such each of the nodes of these three other users may connect to the node associated with the first user via a corresponding edge. User behavior analysis module may analyze user behavior stored in user behavior database to determine an affinity between the first user and each of the other three users. Module may determine a symmetrical affinity and or may determine directional affinities.

To determine these affinities module may weight each type of activity stored within database . These weighted activities may then be summed to determine one or more affinities e.g. symmetrical affinities and or directional affinities between each connected node with social graph . For instance buying a gift for another user may be assigned a relatively high weight representing a relatively high affinity for the other user while selecting an item in a news feed may be assigned a relatively low weight.

Additionally different values of activities within a same type of activity may be assigned different weights. For instance buying another user of site a 600 gift may be weighted more heavily that buying another user a 5 gift. Similarly attending an event with relatively few people may be weighted more heavily than attending an event with a greater number of people. Here it may be more likely that a smaller more intimate group of people share a greater affinity with one another than does each person in a larger group of people. In other contexts the opposite may be true.

Other group heuristics may also be leveraged in weighting users memberships in groups. For instance being a member of a smaller group may be weighted more heavily than being a member of a larger group. These weights may also vary based on other heuristics such as a type of group or a level of activity of the group. For instance if user is a software engineer then the user s membership in a square dancing group may be weighted more heavily than the user s membership in a software development group. Again in some instances the converse may be true.

In addition to weighting user activity symmetrical activity may serve as an affinity multiplier in some instances. For instance if user and another user each consistently send messages to one another via site then this consistent symmetrical activity may serve to significantly increase the determined affinity. This increase may liner polynomial exponential or the like.

While symmetrical activity may act to significantly increase a determined affinity between users a converse affect may also occur for lack of activity or lack of reciprocation. For instance if user frequently sends messages to another user of site but the other user seldom or never sends messages back to user then the lack of reciprocation may penalize the overall affinity between the two users. Conversely a directional affinity from user the user sending messages to the other user the user receiving but not sending messages may not be adversely affected in some instances. Here module may still determine that the receiving user is still relatively important to user even if the converse is not true. Decreases in overall affinity between two users may also occur in response to a user blocking a message or note declining attendance at a party in response to receiving an invitation seldom reading of another user s news feed or in response any other activity representative of a lack of reciprocation or interest in the relationship.

With use of these determined affinities edge strength calculator functions to calculate and assign an edge strength to each edge connecting the node associated with the first user with each node associated with the other three users. The calculated strengths may therefore represent in whole or in part corresponding affinities between corresponding users of social graph . Therefore in some instances a relatively high edge strength indicates a relatively high affinity when compared with a relatively low edge strength. For instance a strength of an edge connecting user and a user for whom user recently purchased a 600 gift for may be relatively high. Conversely a strength of edge connecting user with another user for whom user recently purchased a 5 gift may be relatively low in comparison.

In some instances edge strength calculation service periodically randomly or continuously determines affinities and based on the determined affinities calculates and assigns edge strengths to some or all edges of social graph . Additionally these calculated edge strengths may decay with time in order to ensure that previously strong but now discontinued or less strong relationships do not continue to demonstrate misleading high edge strengths.

Furthermore and as discussed above edge strength calculation service may communicate with site as well as one or more other sites to determine affinities and calculate edge strengths. Each of these sites may provide implicit data e.g. user activity information and may employ the determined affinities and or calculated edge strengths. In some instances some of the sites that provide information to service may employ differing types of social graphs such as personal social graphs professional social graphs and the like. For instance site may comprise more of a social site than another site which may be more of a working related site and hence may employ a working related or professional social graph.

In these instances edge strength calculation service may determine differing types of affinities based on the differing relationships. With this information service may then calculate differing edge strengths. To illustrate return to the example where site comprises a personal social networking site and another site comprises a working related or professional social networking site. Here service may employ the data provided by site to calculate a personal affinity between users. Service may then employ the data provided by the professional site to determine a professional affinity between these same and or different users. With these affinities service may then calculate personal edge strengths between users and professional edge strengths between users. It is specifically noted that while a few illustrative dimensions of relationship have been discussed e.g. personal and professional the described techniques may similarly measure any other dimension of relationship between entities.

In addition or in the alternative to measuring these different dimensions of relationships e.g. personal professional etc. with reference to different sites edge strength calculation service may measure these different dimensions with reference to different types of activities. For instance if user employs site to invite other users of site to attend a birthday party then service may determine that this gathering is a social gathering. Service may then use these activity to determine a personal or social affinity and hence to calculate a personal edge strength. Conversely if user employs site to invite other users of site to attend a work related meeting then service may determine that this gathering is a professional gathering. Service may then use this activity to determine a work related or professional affinity and hence to calculate a work related or professional edge strength.

In another example a user s email client may include a plugin that monitors a user s email activities and characteristics as discussed above. For example the plugin or other application may monitor a type of email address that is used when a first user e.g. user sends an email to a second user. The types of email addresses may include a work address a personal address a school address or any other type of address. For instance if user often sends emails to a personal email address of the second user then service may deduce that these emails indicate a personal affinity between user and the second user. If however user instead often sent emails to a work email address of the second user then service may deduce that these emails indicate a professional affinity between user and the second user. Other heuristics of these emails or other communications may be similarly tracked and leveraged.

Once edge strength calculator calculates edge strengths based in whole or in part upon the determined affinities service may provide these strengths to site and or to one or more other sites or entities. Site and or the other entities may then employ or leverage this information in multiple ways.

For instance site may personalize data provided to users of site based in part or in whole on the received edge strengths. For instance site may determine the most important users to user e.g. the five users in the network of user having the highest symmetrical and or directional edge strengths and may apprise user of recent activity of these five most important users. That is site may personalize a news feed associated with user based on strengths of edges between user and members of the user s network. This personalization may entail frequently populating this news feed with information about the top five users while less frequently or never populating the news feed with information about less important members of the user s network.

Site or another entity may also make suggestions based on the calculated edge strengths. These suggestions may include suggestions of other users of site to include within a network suggestions for gifts to purchase for other users or any other type of suggestion. In the former instances site may suggest to user that user add certain other users of site to the network of user . Similarly site may automatically add certain users to the network of user based on the determined edge strengths.

Site or another entity may also suggest to user certain gifts to give other users of site . For instance site or the other entity may suggest that user purchase a very expensive Christmas gift for a user having a highest edge strength of the network of user . Conversely site or the other entity may suggest that user purchase a much less expensive Christmas gift or no gift at all to a user having a much lower edge strength. Similarly site may suggest Christmas gifts for the top ten users of the network Fourth of July gifts for the top five users and Saint Patrick s Day gifts for the top three users. Of course site or another entity may leverage edges strengths in many other ways in suggesting gifts or providing other suggestions to user .

Site or another entity may also employ the calculated edge strengths to determine an audience for advertisements. For instance if user were to purchase a particular product the maker of the particular product may reason that those people who are closest to user are the most likely to purchase the same product. Therefore rather than sending an advertisement for the product to each member of the network of user the maker of the product may choose to target the advertisement to a smaller group. For instance the maker of the product may choose to send the advertisements to those users who are in the network of user and whose corresponding edge strengths comprise the ten highest strengths or whose strengths are greater than a certain threshold.

In still other embodiments site or another entity may employ the edge strengths to manage scheduling conflicts. For instance imagine that user receives an invitation to attend a party hosted by a first user and an invitation to attend a party hosted by a second user that is set for the same time. Imagine also that an edge strength of an edge connecting user with the first user is much higher than an edge strength of an edge connecting user with the second user. Here site or the other entity may reference these edge strengths and based on the strengths may automatically accept the first invitation and automatically decline the second conflicting invitation. Similarly site or the or the other entity may suggest the first invitation rather than automatically accept the invitation.

While a few illustrative examples have been provided it is to be appreciated that the calculated edge strengths may be leveraged by many different entities in many different ways.

Column represents which edge the scores of columns correspond to. In the current example the entries within column therefore corresponding to edges A B A C A D . . . A N. Column meanwhile represents an overall or symmetrical strength of the corresponding edge. That is this column may indicate a symmetrical affinity between users of the corresponding nodes as calculated by user behavior analysis module . This overall or symmetrical strength may be calculated with reference to the directional strengths e.g. as an average of the two directional strengths as a weighted sum of the two directional strengths with differing or equally weights etc. or may be calculated independently from the directional strengths.

Next columns and represent directional edge strengths. That is these columns may indicate a first user s affinity for a second user and the second user s affinity for the first user respectively. In the current example for instance a first entry in column may indicate an affinity of user for a user associated with node B while a first entry in column may indicate an affinity of a user associated with node B for user .

Here table illustrates that user and the user associated with node B have an overall edge strength of with user having a somewhat lesser affinity for the node B user directional strength of than the node B user s affinity for user directional strength of . Table also illustrates that user and the user associated with node C have an overall edge strength of with user having a somewhat greater affinity for the node C user directional strength of than the node C user s affinity for user directional strength of . Finally table illustrates that user and the user associated with node D have an overall edge strength of with user having a slightly lesser affinity for the node D user directional strength of than the node D user s affinity for user directional strength of .

Table thus illustrates that of edges A B A C and A D A B has a highest edge strength and is therefore the strongest edge. In some instances this represents that user and the user associated with node B have a stronger affinity with one another than do user and the users associated with nodes C and D. Again site or another may use this knowledge to better understand the relationships within social graph and may leverage this better understanding in many ways as discussed above. Additionally edge strength calculation service may calculate edge strengths for some or all of networks and therefore for some or all edges that define social graph .

In some instances site may be a social networking site of a different type than social networking site . For instance site may here comprise a personal site while site may here comprise a work related or professional site. Of course it is to be appreciated that site and or site may comprise any other sort of social networking site or other site.

Here both site and site may provide user activity to edge strength calculation service . With this information edge strength calculation service may calculate different types of edge strengths connecting users on social graphs and . In addition to calculating overall strength and directional strengths and service may store a table that measures a personal strength and a professional strength . Here personal strength may represent or be indicative of a personal affinity between users while professional strength may represent or be indicative of a professional affinity between users. In some instances service calculates personal strengths with reference to personal site while calculating professional strengths with reference to site . It is noted however that other implementations may additionally or alternatively calculate these differing edge strengths with reference to differing types of activities on sites and as discussed above.

To illustrate table again represents different edge connections within social graphs and . Here however service has calculated a personal strength and or a professional strength between the user associated with node A user and the users associated with nodes B N. For instance table represents that user and the user associated with node B have a personal edge strength of while a professional strength of only 37. This may indicate that user and the user associated with node B have a stronger personal relationship than they do a working relationship.

Conversely table represents that user may not have a personal relationship or a relatively small one with the user associated with node C while these users do have a working or professional relationship. In some instances because user and the user associated with node C do not have a personal edge strength these two users may not have an edge connection on social graph of personal social networking site . However because these users do have a professional edge strength these users may be connected on social graph on professional social networking site . Finally user and the user associated with node D are illustrated as having a greater professional edge strength than personal strength .

In implementations that calculate different dimensions of edge strengths e.g. personal professional etc. overall strength as well as directional strengths and may be based in whole or in part on dimensional strengths and . In other implementations overall strength and directional strengths and may be calculated independently of the dimensional strengths.

For discussion purposes the processes are described with reference to the architecture of . In particular many acts described below may be implemented and performed by edge strength calculation service and or service provider in tandem with site .

Process further includes operation at which point the implicit data is analyzed to determine an affinity between the first node and each of the multiple other nodes of the social graph. Finally operation calculates a score for the other edges of the social graph based at least in part on the determined affinities.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

