---

title: Salary advisor for small business employers
abstract: The invention relates to a method for providing advice regarding compensation of a candidate. The method involves obtaining a plurality of compensation records from multiple sources, where at least one of the multiple sources is a financial application of a first entity, aggregating the compensation records, receiving a request for a compensation report from a second entity, where the compensation report includes compensation advice, and where the request includes a compensation profile of a candidate including multiple parameters, identifying a subset of the plurality of compensation records matching at least one of the multiple parameters in the compensation profile, generating the compensation report based on the subset of the multiple compensation records and the request, and providing the compensation report for the candidate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494929&OS=08494929&RS=08494929
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08494929
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This application is a continuation in part of and pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 claims benefit to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 130 940 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR APPLICANT SALARY AND EMPLOYMENT HISTORY VERIFICATION filed on May 30 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of the present application.

The job market is an extremely competitive environment and many employers strive to offer competitive salaries. Most employment and compensation information is considered to be highly private and laws prohibit dissemination of this information without an individual s consent. As a result this type of information though valuable to businesses is generally not aggregated for research purposes.

With advances in computer related business technology many businesses now manage their payroll systems using one or more business applications and maintain electronic employment and payroll records. Despite these advances it remains a challenge for small business owners to competitively set employee salaries.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for providing advice regarding compensation of a candidate comprising obtaining a plurality of compensation records from a plurality of sources wherein at least one of the plurality of sources is a financial application of a first entity aggregating the compensation records receiving a request for a compensation report from a second entity wherein the compensation report comprises compensation advice and wherein the request comprises a compensation profile of a candidate including a plurality of parameters identifying a subset of the plurality of compensation records matching at least one of the plurality of parameters in the compensation profile generating the compensation report based on the subset of the plurality of compensation records and the request and providing the compensation report for the candidate.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for evaluating compensation of a candidate in a labor market comprising obtaining a compensation profile based on characteristics of the candidate wherein the compensation profile comprises employment data submitting a request for a compensation report based on the compensation profile and receiving a compensation report corresponding to the compensation profile wherein the compensation report is based on labor market data aggregated from a plurality of data sources comprising a business application.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system to evaluate candidate compensation in a labor market comprising an aggregate data repository configured to store aggregated data wherein aggregated data comprise employment data from a plurality of data sources comprising a business application and a data processing service. The data processing service configured to receive a request for a compensation report for a candidate extract labor market compensation data from the aggregate data repository wherein compensation data conforms to a compensation profile evaluate compensation data with respect to compensation profile and providing the compensation report for the candidate.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium storing instructions for evaluating compensation in a labor market. The instructions comprising functionality to obtain a plurality of compensation records from a plurality of sources wherein at least one of the plurality of sources is a financial application of a first entity aggregate the compensation records receive a request for a compensation report from a second entity wherein the compensation report comprises compensation advice and wherein the request comprises a compensation profile of a candidate including a plurality of parameters identify a subset of the plurality of compensation records matching at least one of the plurality of parameters in the compensation profile generate the compensation report based on the subset of the plurality of compensation records and the request and provide the compensation report for the candidate.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description. While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for providing employee compensation advice to small business owners. The compensation advice is based on employment data. Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the compensation advice is based on aggregated employment data obtained from a variety of sources. This aggregated data is then compared to employee salaries to provide a compensation report or used to determine salaries for new employees.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources e.g. data source A and data source N include one or more business applications. Business applications are software products that provide functionality for managing business operations. For example the data sources may include one or more financial management applications used to manage payroll and or paycheck data for a business. Further data from the data sources may include demographic information about the businesses such as name location industry number of employees at each location maturity of the employer or any other type of demographic information about the businesses. In one or more embodiments of the invention individuals businesses and or payroll processing companies may upload data to one or more application data repositories associated with the data sources discussed below .

Further the data sources may be managed by one or more employers individuals or companies research companies government organizations educational facilities and or financial institutions such as banks credit unions investment banks etc. taxing entities such a state or federal payroll tax agency etc. In general the data sources may include any type of source configured to provide employment information. Many different types of payroll records management and employment data may be used.

Data sources that may be used include for example QuickBooks Quicken TurboTax ProSeries the Internal Revenue Service the Social Security Administration Internet search engines or any other type of data source configured to provide employment data. The aforementioned data sources are listed as examples only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. QuickBooks Quicken TurboTax and ProSeries are registered trademarks of Intuit Inc.

As used herein the terms employment data and compensation profile include information relevant to determining an individual s compensation such as years of experience level of seniority job title benefits bonuses commissions industry location and or any other data that may be relevant for determining compensation.

As used herein the term compensation report includes a comparative analysis of employment data and other information provided by an employer in the form of a compensation profile and data associated with other similarly situated employees from the aggregated data. For example the compensation report may contain information regarding average or suggested salaries for employees with the same job title in the same city or other geographic area as the employer. The comparison may be based on for example payroll data submitted by other employers in the area. In one or more embodiments of the invention the submission of the payroll data results from payroll data gathered from employers using a payroll system to run payroll for the company i.e. to pay employees in the ordinary course of business and not by direct submission for the express purpose of being included in a compensation reporting data service. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the comparison information for the compensation report may be presented in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

Continuing with discussion of requests for a compensation report may be made automatically by business software used by an employer . For example the employer may use payroll software to manage his employee payrolls. This software could extract the information needed to form a compensation profile and then submit the profile to the data processing service . Alternatively the employer could enter the information and submit the compensation profile manually to the data processing service .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the system includes one or more data processing services e.g. data processing service . The data processing services are configured to generate matches between the compensation profile and any information stored in the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments of the invention near matches may be generated as well to provide more data points for statistical comparisons. For example a near match may be two employees with the same job title location and industry but the first has 5 years experience and the second has 8 years experience.

In view of the above in one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources may be thought of as input services for the aggregate data repository because the data sources are used to input data to the aggregate data repository . Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the data processing services may be thought of as output services for the aggregate data repository because the data processing services generate output based on the data in the aggregate data repository . Specifically the data processing services generate output in the form of a compensation report and may also be configured to generate other types of output based on data from the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments of the invention the aggregate data repository is communicatively coupled with application programming interfaces APIs not shown that allow input services and or output services to interact with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregate data repository is restricted using an authentication service . Specifically the authentication service is configured to ensure that only authorized data processing services are given access to the aggregate data repository . For example the authentication service may require a data processing service to present a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential recognized as valid by the authentication service . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is located in a local area network LAN and the authentication service includes a firewall protecting the LAN from unauthorized access.

As discussed above the data sources shown in may include one or more business applications. shows a diagram of a system that includes a business application in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The business application may be a financial management application a payroll application a research application a credit analysis application a search engine or any other type of business application configured to provide employment data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data from the business application are stored in an application data repository . The application data repository may be a database an XML document a spreadsheet a text file or any other type of repository configured to store data associated with the business application . Some examples of data that may be stored are described above.

In one or more embodiments of the invention before data from the application data repository are transmitted to an aggregated data repository the data are transformed to a format compatible with the aggregate data repository . For example if the aggregate data repository is a database the data may require normalization to conform to a database schema used by the aggregate data repository . As another example the data may require transformation to a particular XML format. Many different types of data transformation may be required depending on the implementations of the application data repository and the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention to transform the data to a compatible format the data are transmitted to a staging data repository using a data link service . In one or more embodiments the data link service is a module or plug in of the business application . Alternatively the data link service may be independent of the business application . In either case the data link service is configured to retrieve data from the application data repository and transmit the data for example over a file system and or network to the staging data repository .

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the data link service is configured to retrieve only a subset of the data available in the application data repository . For example if the application data repository is configured to store a business s financial data the data link service may omit data that concerns the business and is unrelated to employees such as a credit card number a bank account number or any other type of private data. Alternatively private business data may be transmitted to the aggregate data repository and privacy of the data may be enforced by another component of the system such as an authentication service not shown communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention once the data are stored in the staging data repository the data are transformed to the required format by a data transformation service and the transformed data are transmitted to the aggregate data repository . Data stored in the aggregate data repository may then be used to provide a compensation report as discussed herein.

While the system shown in includes several different components embodiments of the invention may be envisioned that omit one or more of these components. For example in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to transmit data directly to the data transformation service . In such cases use of the staging data repository may not be required. Further the business application may be configured to generate data in a format that is already compatible with the aggregate data repository . In such cases use of the data transformation service may not be required.

Moreover the business application may be configured to store data directly in the aggregate data repository . For example the business application may be a web based application configured to use the aggregate data repository for data storage. In such cases the application data repository and data link service may not be required. Alternatively the system may be logically separated into client side and server side components. For example the business application application data repository and or data link service may be executing on an end user s computer system and the staging data repository data transformation service and or aggregate data repository may be executing on one or more other computer systems separated from the end user s computer system by a network. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many different embodiments of the system may be envisioned that remain within the scope of the invention.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention data are obtained from multiple data sources. As discussed above the data sources may include one or more business applications payroll services and or financial institutions such as banks credit unions investment banks etc. taxing entities such a state or federal payroll tax agency etc. In general the data sources may include any type of source configured to provide employment data. Many different types of employment data may be used. Examples of data that may be provided by the data sources include those described above.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the data are transformed to a data format that is compatible with an aggregate data repository. For example as discussed above the data may be transformed to satisfy a particular database schema or XML format. Further as discussed above the data may be transformed using a data transformation service communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository. In general in one or more embodiments of the invention transforming the data allows for data from multiple types of data sources to be aggregated in the aggregate data repository.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the data are aggregated. As noted above the term aggregating means grouping together. For example data may be grouped in one or more tables of the database cells in a spreadsheet fields of an XML document or in any other aggregated format.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a policy to restrict access to aggregated data is established. Restricting access to the aggregated data may involve ensuring that only authorized entities for example businesses individuals etc have access to the aggregated data. For example access may be restricted by enforcing a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential. Further access may be restricted based on a location of the aggregate data repository in a network. For example the aggregate data repository may be located in a local area network LAN and access may be restricted using a firewall that protects the LAN from unauthorized access. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the aggregated data also involves a type of filtering by limiting access to a particular subset of the aggregated data.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention a policy restricting access to the aggregated data is based on whether an entity has purchased access to the aggregated data. In other words the right to access the aggregated data may be sold and non paying entities may not be allowed to access the aggregated data. For example an entity may purchase the right to query using Structured Query Language SQL a report interface or any other appropriate query mechanism the aggregated data or a subset thereof. In one or more embodiments of the invention the right to access the aggregated data is sold using a subscription model where the entity purchases access rights for a limited time period or with recurring fees. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that there are other methods with which to restrict access to the aggregated data and as such the invention should not be limited to the examples discussed above.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a request for a compensation report is obtained. For example an employer may be hiring a new employee and wants advice regarding what salary to pay the employee. In one or more embodiments of the invention the request is in the form of a compensation profile which includes candidate years of experience level of seniority job title benefits bonuses commissions industry location and other information relevant to providing compensation advice. In one or more embodiments of the invention the request is obtained via a web based user interface.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention the aggregated data are searched for data associated with the compensation profile. In one or more embodiments the search takes place in the data repository and the data may be filtered or clustered in order to reduce search times. For example the aggregated data may be clustered based on geographic location e.g. the same city state etc. or it may be clustered based on industry e.g. pharmaceuticals law health care etc. or a combination of geographic location and industry . Further near matches may be returned to increase the overall accuracy of the compensation report. For example if a compensation profile shows that a candidate has 5 years of experience then matches may be returned in the same industry and location with 3 to 8 years of experience thereby increasing the number of data points for statistical comparison. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the search may be conducted in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and or scope of this invention.

As shown in Step in one or more embodiments of the invention a compensation report is generated based on the request and the aggregated data. A compensation report includes a comparative and statistical analysis of employment data from the aggregate data repository and data provided by the compensation profile. In one or more embodiments of the invention this data is analyzed to create a suggested salary range for the candidate. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the comparative analysis for the employment history verification report may be presented in numerous ways without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.

As shown in Step the compensation report is then provided to the user or someone designated by the user . The compensation report may be provided in a variety of formats including but not limited to a text document a spreadsheet or an email.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the method described in may be automatic. For example an employer may be using a business application to update his or her payroll or check the accounting figures. While the employer is working the business application may automatically extract a compensation profile for each employee who has information entered in the application and submit a request for a compensation report for each employee to the data processing service. When the compensation report comes back for each employee the employer may be notified. Alternatively the employer may only be notified if the salary he or she is paying their employee is above or below the range suggested by the compensation report. This way an employer could be alerted that they are paying an employee too little or too much. Further the business application could be set up to automatically check employee salaries on a regular basis such as quarterly annually or any other time interval. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that there are a variety of ways that the method described in could be automated and thus automation of the invention should not be limited to the example described above.

Once the information is submitted the compensation profile is compared to the aggregated employment data by the data processing service . Once the comparison and corresponding calculations are complete the data processing service returns a compensation report that provides advice for the employer. In this example the advice provided is that a competitive salary for the chemist in San Francisco should be in the 70 80 000 year range. In one or more embodiments of the invention the employer may not have access or a desire to view the compensation report. For example if the profile was submitted automatically the employer may only see the compensation report if the suggested salary is higher or lower than the current employee s are paid.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. application data storage aggregation engine data analysis engine rules engine etc. may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system however the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

