---

title: Method and system for network identification via DNS
abstract: In embodiments of the present invention improved capabilities are described for accessing a DNS server, where the DNS server may be a DNS server within the control of a administrator. A pair of name and IP address may be stored on the DNS server. A client may then transmit the name to a DNS server to request the DNS server to lookup the IP address related to the client transmitted name. This client to DNS server communication may be performed as part of a network request from the client. The IP address may then be returned to the client in response to the connection request, which may allow the client to interpret the return of the security IP address as an indication of a known DNS server and therefore a known network. As a result, the client may then be able to set its security rules according to known network rules. Further, the identifying of a known network may be associated with location information associated with the DNS server, and thus the client, where the location information may be associated with multiple DNS IP address entries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266672&OS=08266672&RS=08266672
owner: Sophos PLC
number: 08266672
owner_city: Abingdon
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080321
---
The present invention is related to secure computing and more specifically relating to network identification by a client.

Users of mobile computing platforms may travel amongst a plurality of locations where each location may have a unique set of malware threats. A user may employ an end point security facility on their mobile computing platform to help protect the client from such threats. However if a user were to know they were on a network that could be trusted they may be able to change some aspect related to malware protection and thus improve the ease and security of their computing experience. Likewise if a user where to know they were on a network that could not be trusted they may increase some aspect related to malware protection and thus reduce the threats from the untrusted network. There exists therefore a need for improved network identification as related to the security associated with the network.

In embodiments of the present invention a method and system may be provided for utilizing a domain name system DNS server to facilitate an identification of a network where a client may connect to the network and establish the identification through communication with the DNS server. The client to DNS server communication may utilize standard DNS address protocols where the client may make a DNS domain name request that may be associated with predefined unique domain name IP address pairs stored on the DNS server. These unique domain name IP addresses may be previously recorded on the DNS server by an administrator associated with the invention and may be associated with the identity of the DNS server and thus the network connected to the DNS server and the communicating client. In this way the present invention may allow the administrator to configure the DNS servers within their control that is DNS servers internal to the administrator s network access control to identify themselves to the client through an IP address returned to the client as a result of the client requesting at least one of the administer preconfigured domain names. Further the unique domain name IP address pairs may not be assigned within the DNS and so may not provide a requesting client a response when the client is not communicating with a DNS server within the control of the administrator of the invention. As a result the client may be able to interpret the presence or absence of an IP address return from their unique domain name request as evidence of being currently connected to a known network under the control of the administrator and an unknown network outside the control of the administrator. Further there may be an administrator managed policy associated with a client connecting to a known network as opposed to an unknown network.

In embodiments a DNS server may be accessed where the DNS server is within the control of an administrator. A pair of name and IP address may be stored on the DNS server. A client may then transmit the name to a DNS server to request the DNS server to lookup the IP address related to the client transmitted name. This client to DNS server communication may be performed as part of a network request from the client. The IP address may be returned to the client in response to the connection request which may allow the client to interpret the return of the IP address as an indication of a known DNS server and therefore a known network. As a result the client may then be able to set its security rules according to known network rules according to an administrator managed policy. In embodiments the name and IP address may not refer to a physical machine.

In embodiments the DNS server may be configured by the administrator. Configuration may include a security IP name and security address pair assignment where the security IP name and security address pair assignment may be associated with the identity of the DNS server each DNS server may have a unique IP address and the like. The security IP name and security address pair assignment may be associated with the location of the DNS server related to networks associated with the DNS server and the client related to networks associated with the DNS server and the client where there is a common network between the DNS server and the client associated with a table of IP name and address pairs included in the DNS server utilizes an IP loopback address and the like. The DNS server may be connected to an external DNS server where the external DNS server may not be within the control of the administrator may contain records for public servers may be a DNS server not within the control of the administrator may be connected to the same network as the client and the like where the DNS server may be an DNS server within the control of the administrator an external DNS server and the like.

In embodiments the administrator may be associated with an enterprise. The administrator may be associated with the configuration of enterprise computing devices such as client an endpoint client where the client may be configured with a plurality of IP address and name pairs that may be related to the DNS server. The enterprise computing device may be a server such as a DNS server a DNS server configured with a plurality of IP address and name pairs a DNS server and the like. The at least one of the plurality of IP address and name pairs may be associated with the identity of the DNS server with the location of the DNS server and the like. The DNS server may be connected to the same network as the client. The administrator may be associated with a threat management facility such as in association with security management network access rules policy management and the like. Policy management may be associated with a security policy such as in association with protection from malware. Policy management is associated with security rules such as in association with the improvement of an enforcement of a policy. Policy management may be associated with the known network such as when the known network is under the control of the administrator when the known network is a trusted network and the like. Policy management may be associated with an unknown network such as when the unknown network may not be under the control of the administrator when the unknown network is the Internet when the unknown network is an untrusted network and the like. In addition policy management may be associated with security software firewall configuration with network connections and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may be associated with domain name and IP addresses that are secure. The name may be related to a policy within the control of the administrator such as a security policy. The name may also be related to the policy. The name may include a globally unique name including a globally unique identifier GUID a domain name names that may be associated with a function of an associated secure IP address names that may resolve into a single unique secure IP address names that may not be available to hosts outside the known network and the like. The IP address may be a unique identifier related to the DNS server where the unique identifier may be the same for each DNS server within the control of the administrator different for each DNS server within the control of the administrator and the like.

In embodiments there may be communications between the client and the DNS server such as the client transmitting a DNS request and the DNS server providing a reply back to the client. The client transmission to the DNS server may utilize the name previously stored in the client by the administrator where the name may be a universal resource identifier URI a uniform resource locator URL address identifier web address and the like. The client may transmit the name to the DNS server associated with the each network connection related to the client. The client transmission may be associated with an A type query where the A type query may be an address record that maps the name to the IP address. The name may be a hostname. The A type query may be related to a 32 bit IPv4 address. The client transmission may be associated with an AAAA type query where AAAA type query may be related to a 128 bit IPv6 address. The DNS server may be a DNS server where the DNS server may return the IP address associated with its name to the client and the IP address may be previously supplied to the DNS server by the administrator. The network request from the client may be the first communication session of the client with the network such as with the network as the first time the client has used the network the network as the beginning of a new network session the network as the first network communication since the client powered on and the like.

In embodiments the client may interpret the message returned from the DSN server. The interpretation of the return may be associated with a known DNS server. The known DNS server may return an IP address to the client the client may compare the returned IP address to the IP address stored on the client the returned IP address may be a match to the IP address the returned IP address may be from a known network the security rules according to known network rules may include levels of access to the known network where the access to the known network may be open access restricted access access associated with the current location of the client access associated with the current location of the client when the current location of the client is different from the home location of the client when the IP address stored on the client may be previously stored on the client by the administrator and the like. The interpretation of the return may be associated with an unknown DNS server where the unknown DNS server does not return an IP address to the client. The unknown DNS server may be associated with an unknown network where the unknown network may not be within the control of the administrator. The unknown network may be the Internet. The unknown DNS server may return an error message to the client in response to the connection request. The error message may indicate that no available IP address matches the IP address. The unknown DNS server may return an IP address other than the IP address where the IP address other than the IP address is associated with a help facility not in control of the administrator. This may cause the client to set its security rules according to unknown network rules which may for example cause the client to disconnect from the unknown network cause the client to restrict access to the unknown network and the like.

In embodiments identifying a known network may be associated with location information associated with the DNS server and thus the client where the location information may be associated with multiple DNS IP address entries. A plurality of DNS servers may be accessed where the plurality of DNS servers may be DNS servers within the control of an administrator. A unique location specific IP address may be stored on each of the plurality of DNS servers where all of the location specific IP addresses on the plurality of DNS servers may have the same name. In embodiments a client may transmit the name to a DNS server to request the DNS server to lookup the IP address related to the client transmitted name at a network request from the client.

In embodiments the location specific IP address may be returned to the client in response to the network request. The client may interpret the return of the location specific IP address as an indication of a known DNS server and therefore a known network. The client may interpret the return of the location specific IP address to determine its location and may cause the client to set its security rules according to known network rules for the given location according to an administrator managed policy. The unique location specific IP address may be related to the location of the internal point DNS server where the unique location specific IP address may be different for each location of the internal point DNS server different for each internal point DNS server and the like. In embodiments the location may be a country a geographic region a privately controlled location a publicly controlled location and the like where the privately controlled location may be a business a residence and the like and the publicly controlled location may be a government facility a college an open public space or the like.

In embodiments the DNS server may be a DNS server within the control of a administrator. The policy may be a security policy and the request made by the client may be an encrypted request and the DNS server decrypts the request where the request made by the client may be made through a secured transaction. The client may use the IP address to access information pertaining to the known network where the information pertaining to the known network may be information relating to the location of the known network pertaining to the known network is a set of information and the like.

While the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments other embodiments would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and are encompassed herein.

An aspect of the present invention relates to corporate policy management and their implementation through a unified threat management facility . As will be explained in more detail below a threat management facility is used to protect computer assets from many threats both computer generated threats and user generated threats. The threat management facility is multi dimensional in that it is designed to protect corporate assets from a variety of threats and it is adapted to learn about threats in one dimension e.g. worm detection and apply the knowledge in another dimension e.g. spam detection . Corporate policy management is one of the dimensions for which the threat management facility can control. The corporation may institute a policy that prevents certain people e.g. employees groups of employees types of employees guest of the corporation etc. from accessing certain types of computer programs. For example the corporation may elect to prevent its accounting department from using a particular version of an instant messaging service or all such services. In this example the policy management facility may be used to update the policies of all corporate computing assets with a proper policy control facility or it may update a select few. By using the threat management facility to facilitate the setting updating and control of such policies the corporation only needs to be concerned with keeping the threat management facility up to date on such policies. The threat management facility can take care of updating all of the other corporate computing assets.

It should be understood that the threat management facility may provide multiple services and policy management may be offered as one of the services. We will now turn to a description of the threat management system .

Over recent years malware has become a major problem across the internet . From both technical and user perspectives the categorization of a specific threat type such as whether it is a virus worm spam phishing exploration spyware adware or the like is becoming reduced in significance. The threat no matter how it s categorized may need to be stopped at all points of the enterprise facility including laptop desktop server facility gateway and the like. Similarly there may be less and less benefit to the user in having different solutions for known and unknown threats. As such a consolidated threat management facility may need to be applied to the same set of technologies and capabilities for all threats. The threat management facility may provide a single agent on the desktop and a single scan of any suspect file. This approach may eliminate the inevitable overlaps and gaps in protection caused by treating viruses and spyware as separate problems while simultaneously simplifying administration and minimizing desktop load. As the number and range of types of threats has increased so may have the level of connectivity available to all IT users. This may have lead to a rapid increase in the speed at which threats may move. Today an unprotected PC connected to the internet may be infected quickly say within 10 minutes which may require acceleration for the delivery of threat protection. Where once monthly updates may have been sufficient the threat management facility may automatically and seamlessly update its product set against spam and virus threats quickly for instance every five minutes every minute continuously or the like. Analysis and testing may be increasingly automated and also may be performed more frequently for instance it may be completed in 15 minutes and may do so without compromising quality. The threat management facility may also extend techniques that may have been developed for virus and malware protection and provide them to enterprise facility network administrators to better control their environments. In addition to stopping malicious code the threat management facility may provide policy management that may be able to control legitimate applications such as VoIP instant messaging peer to peer file sharing and the like that may undermine productivity and network performance within the enterprise facility .

The threat management facility may provide an enterprise facility protection from computer based malware including viruses spyware adware Trojans intrusion spam policy abuse uncontrolled access and the like where the enterprise facility may be any entity with a networked computer based infrastructure. In an embodiment may depict a block diagram of the threat management facility providing protection to an enterprise against a plurality of threats. The enterprise facility may be corporate commercial educational governmental or the like and the enterprise facility s computer network may be distributed amongst a plurality of facilities and in a plurality of geographical locations. The threat management facility may include a plurality of functions such as security management facility policy management facility update facility definitions facility network access rules facility remedial action facility detection techniques facility testing facility threat research facility and the like. In embodiments the threat protection provided by the threat management facility may extend beyond the network boundaries of the enterprise facility to include enterprise facility client facility s that have moved into network connectivity not directly associated or controlled by the enterprise facility . Threats to enterprise facility client facilities may come from a plurality of sources such as from network threats physical proximity threats secondary location threats and the like. In embodiments the threat management facility may provide an enterprise facility protection from a plurality of threats to multiplatform computer resources in a plurality of locations and network configurations with an integrated system approach.

In embodiments the threat management facility may be provided as a stand alone solution. In other embodiments the threat management facility may be integrated into a third party product. An application programming interface e.g. a source code interface may be provided such that the threat management facility may be integrated. For instance the threat management facility may be stand alone in that it provides direct threat protection to an enterprise or computer resource where protection is subscribed to directly with the threat management facility . Alternatively the threat management facility may offer protection indirectly through a third party product where an enterprise may subscribe to services through the third party product and threat protection to the enterprise may be provided by the threat management facility through the third party product.

The security management facility may include a plurality of elements that provide protection from malware to enterprise facility computer resources including endpoint security and control email security and control web security and control control of unauthorized users control of guest and non compliant computers and the like. The security management facility may be a software application that may provide malicious code and malicious application protection to a client facility computing resource. The security management facility may have the ability to scan the client facility files for malicious code remove or quarantine certain applications and files prevent certain actions perform remedial actions and perform other security measures. In embodiments scanning the client facility may include scanning some or all of the files stored to the client facility on a periodic basis may scan applications once the application has been requested to execute may scan files as the files are transmitted to or from the client facility or the like. The scanning of the applications and files may be to detect known malicious code or known unwanted applications. In an embodiment new malicious code and unwanted applications may be continually developed and distributed and updates to the known code database may be provided on a periodic basis on a demand basis on an alert basis or the like.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for email security and control where security management may help to eliminate spam viruses spyware and phishing control of email content and the like. The security management facilities email security and control may protect against inbound and outbound threats protect email infrastructure prevent data leakage provide spam filtering and the like. In an embodiment security management facility may provide for web security and control where security management may help to detect or block viruses spyware malware unwanted applications help control web browsing and the like which may provide comprehensive web access control enabling safe productive web browsing. Web security and control may provide internet use policies reporting on suspect devices security and content filtering active monitoring of network traffic URI filtering and the like. In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for network access control which may provide control over network connections. Network control may stop unauthorized guest or non compliant systems from accessing networks and may control network traffic that may not be bypassed from the client level. In addition network access control may control access to virtual private networks VPN where VPNs may be a communications network tunneled through another network establishing a logical connection acting as a virtual network. In embodiments a VPN may be treated in the same manner as a physical network.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for host intrusion prevention through behavioral based protection which may guard against unknown threats by analyzing behavior before software code executes. Behavioral based protection may monitor code when it runs and intervene if the code is deemed to be suspicious or malicious. Advantages of behavioral based protection over runtime protection may include code being prevented from running whereas runtime protection may only interrupt code that has already partly executed behavioral protection may identify malicious code at the gateway or on the file servers and deletes it before reaching end point computers and the like.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for reputation filtering which may target or identify sources of known malware. For instance reputation filtering may include lists of URIs of known sources of malware or known suspicious IP addresses or domains say for spam that when detected may invoke an action by the threat management facility such as dropping them immediately. By dropping the source before any interaction can initiate potential threat sources may be thwarted before any exchange of data can be made.

In embodiments information may be sent from the enterprise back to a third party a vendor or the like which may lead to improved performance of the threat management facility . For example the types times and number of virus interactions that a client experiences may provide useful information for the preventions of future virus threats. This type of feedback may be useful for any aspect of threat detection. Feedback of information may also be associated with behaviors of individuals within the enterprise such as being associated with most common violations of policy network access unauthorized application loading unauthorized external device use and the like. In embodiments this type of information feedback may enable the evaluation or profiling of client actions that are violations of policy that may provide a predictive model for the improvement of enterprise policies.

In an embodiment the security management facility may provide for the overall security of the enterprise facility network or set of enterprise facility networks may provide updates of malicious code information to the enterprise facility network and associated client facilities . The updates may be a planned update an update in reaction to a threat notice an update in reaction to a request for an update an update based on a search of known malicious code information or the like. The administration facility may provide control over the security management facility when updates are performed. The updates may be automatically transmitted without an administration facility s direct control manually transmitted by the administration facility or the like. The security management facility may include the management of receiving malicious code descriptions from a provider distribution of malicious code descriptions to enterprise facility networks distribution of malicious code descriptions to client facilities or the like. In an embodiment the management of malicious code information may be provided to the enterprise facility s network where the enterprise facility s network may provide the malicious code information through the enterprise facility s network distribution system.

The threat management facility may provide policy management facility that may be able to block non malicious applications such as VoIP instant messaging peer to peer file sharing and the like that may undermine productivity and network performance within the enterprise facility . The policy management facility may be a set of rules or policies that may indicate enterprise facility access permissions for the client facility such as access permissions associated with the network applications external computer devices and the like. The policy management facility may include a database a text file a combination of databases and text files or the like. In an embodiment a policy database may be a block list a black list an allowed list a white list or the like that may provide a list of enterprise facility external network locations applications that may or may not be accessed by the client facility . The policy management facility may include rules that may be interpreted with respect to an enterprise facility network access request to determine if the request should be allowed. The rules may provide a generic rule for the type of access that may be granted the rules may be related to the policies of an enterprise facility for access rights for the enterprise facility s client facility . For example there may be a rule that does not permit access to sporting websites. When a website is requested by the client facility a security facility may access the rules within a policy facility to determine if the requested access is related to a sporting website. In an embodiment the security facility may analyze the requested website to determine if the website matches with any of the policy facility rules.

The policy management facility may be similar to the security management facility but with the distribution of enterprise facility wide access rules and policies that may maintain control of the access of client facility to enterprise facility network resources. The policies may be defined for application type subset of application capabilities organization hierarchy computer facility type user type network location time of day connection type or the like. Policies may be maintained by the administration facility through the threat management facility in association with a third party or the like. For example a policy may restrict IM activity to only support personnel for communicating with customers. This may allow communication for departments requiring access but may maintain the network bandwidth for other activities by restricting the use of IM to only the personnel that need access to IM in support of the enterprise facility . In an embodiment the policy management facility may be a standalone application may be part of the policy management facility network server facility may be part of the enterprise facility network may be part of the client facility or the like.

In embodiments the threat management facility may provide configuration management which may be similar to policy management but may specifically examine the configuration set of applications operating systems hardware and the like and managing changes to their configurations. Assessment of a configuration may be made against a standard configuration policy detection of configuration changes remediation of improper configuration application of new configurations and the like. An enterprise may keep a set of standard configuration rules and policies which may represent the desired state of the device. For example a client firewall may be running and installed but in the disabled state where remediation may be to enable the firewall. In another example the enterprise may set a rule that disallows the use of USB disks and sends a configuration change to all clients which turns off USB drive access via a registry.

In embodiments the threat management facility may also provide for the removal of applications that may interfere with the operation of the threat management facility such as competitor products that may also be attempting similar threat management functions. The removal of such products may be initiated automatically whenever such products are detected. In the case where such applications are services are provided indirectly through a third party product the application may be suspended until action is taken to remove or disable the third party product s protection facility.

Threat management against a sometimes quickly evolving malware environment may require timely updates and the update management facility may be provided by the threat management facility enterprise facility . In addition a policy management facility may also require update management e.g. as provided by the update facility herein described as the enterprise facility requirements for policies change enterprise facility server facility enterprise facility client facility server facility enterprise facility . The update management for the security facility and policy management facility may be provided directly by the threat management facility such as by a hosted system or in conjunction with the administration facility . In embodiments the threat management facility may provide for patch management where a patch may be an update to an operating system an application a system tool or the like where one of the reasons for the patch is to reduce vulnerability to threats.

In embodiments the security facility and policy management facility may push information to the enterprise facility network and or client facility the enterprise facility network and or client facility may pull information from the security facility and policy management facility network server facilities there may be a combination of pushing and pulling of information between the security facility and the policy management facility network servers enterprise facility network and client facilities or the like. For example the enterprise facility network and or client facility may pull information from the security facility and policy management facility network server facility may request the information using the security facility and policy management facility update module the request may be based on a certain time period by a certain time by a date on demand or the like. In another example the security facility and policy management facility network servers may push the information to the enterprise facility s network and or client facility by providing notification that there are updates available for download and then transmitting the information. The combination of the security management network server facility and security update module may function substantially the same as the policy management facility network server and policy update module by providing information to the enterprise facility network and the client facility in a push or pull method. In an embodiment the policy management facility and the security facility management update modules may work in concert to provide all the needed information to the enterprise facility s network and or client facility for control of application execution. In an embodiment the policy update module and security update module may be combined into a single update module.

As threats are identified and characterized the threat management facility may create definition updates that may be used to allow the threat management facility to detect and remediate the latest malicious software unwanted applications configuration and policy changes and the like. The threat definition facility may contain threat identification updates also referred to as definition files. A definition file may be a virus identity file that may include definitions of known or potential malicious code. The IDE definition files may provide information that may identify malicious code within files applications or the like. The definition files may be accessed by security management facility when scanning files or applications within the client facility for the determination of malicious code that may be within the file or application. The definition files may contain a number of commands definitions or instructions to be parsed and acted upon or the like. In embodiments the client facility may be updated with new definition files periodically to provide the client facility with the most recent malicious code definitions the updating may be performed on a set time period may be updated on demand from the client facility may be updated on demand from the network may be updated on a received malicious code alert or the like. In an embodiment the client facility may request an update to the definition files from an update facility within the network may request updated definition files from a computing facility external to the network updated definition files may be provided to the client facility from within the network definition files may be provided to the client facility from an external computing facility from an external network or the like.

In an embodiment a definition management facility may provide for the timely updates of definition files information to the network client facilities and the like. New and altered malicious code and malicious applications may be continually created and distributed to networks worldwide. The definition files that maintain the definitions of the malicious code and malicious application information for the protection of the networks and client facilities may need continual updating to provide continual defense of the network and client facility from the malicious code and malicious applications. The definition files management may provide for automatic and manual methods of updating the definition files. In embodiments the network may receive definition files and distribute the definition files to the network client facilities the client facilities may receive the definition files directly or the network and client facilities may both receive the definition files or the like. In an embodiment the definition files may be updated on a fixed periodic basis on demand by the network and or the client facility as a result of an alert of a new malicious code or malicious application or the like. In an embodiment the definition files may be released as a supplemental file to an existing definition files to provide for rapid updating of the definition files.

In a similar manner the security management facility may be used to scan an outgoing file and verify that the outgoing file is permitted to be transmitted per the enterprise facility rules and policies. By checking outgoing files the security management facility may be able discover malicious code infected files that were not detected as incoming files as a result of the client facility having been updated with either new definition files or policy management facility information. The definition files may discover the malicious code infected file by having received updates of developing malicious code from the administration facility updates from a definition files provider or the like. The policy management facility may discover the malicious code infected file by having received new updates from the administration facility from a rules provider or the like.

The threat management facility may provide for a way to control access to the enterprise facility networks. For instance the enterprise facility may want to restrict access to certain applications networks files printers servers databases or the like. In addition the enterprise facility may want to restrict user access under certain conditions such as the user s location usage history need to know job position connection type time of day method of authentication client system configuration or the like. Network access rules may be developed by the enterprise facility or pre packaged by a supplier and managed by the threat management facility in conjunction with the administration facility . Network access rules and control may be responsible for determining if a client facility application should be granted access to a requested network location. The network location may be on the same network as the facility or may be on another network. In an embodiment the network access control may verify access rights for client facilities from within the network or may verify access rights of computer facilities from external networks. When network access for a client facility is denied the network access control may send an information file to the client facility the information file may contain data or commands that may provide instructions for the remedial action facility . The information sent by the network access facility control may be a data file. The data file may contain a number of commands definitions instructions or commands to be parsed and acted upon through the remedial action facility or the like. The information sent by the network access facility control may be a command or command file that the remedial action facility may access and take action upon.

In an embodiment the network access rules may provide an information store to be accessed by the network access control. The network access rules facility may include databases such as a block list a black list an allowed list a white list an unacceptable network site database an acceptable network site database a network site reputation database or the like of network access locations that may or may not be accessed by the client facility . Additionally the network access rules facility may incorporate rule evaluation the rule evaluation may parse network access requests and apply the parsed information to network access rules. The network access rule facility may have a generic set of rules that may be in support of an enterprise facility s network access policies such as denying access to certain types of websites controlling instant messenger accesses or the like. Rule evaluation may include regular expression rule evaluation or other rule evaluation method for interpreting the network access request and comparing the interpretation to the established rules for network access. In an embodiment the network access rules facility may receive a rules evaluation request from the network access control and may return the rules evaluation to the network access control.

Similar to the threat definitions facility the network access rule facility may provide updated rules and policies to the network access rules facility . The network access rules facility may be maintained by the network administration facility using the network access rules facility management. In an embodiment the network administration facility may be able to maintain a set of access rules manually by adding rules changing rules deleting rules or the like. Additionally the administration facility may be able to retrieve predefined rule sets from a provider that may provide a set of rules to be applied to an entire enterprise facility . The network administration facility may be able to modify the predefined rules as needed for a particular enterprise facility using the network access rules facility management.

When a threat or policy violation is detected by the threat management facility the threat management facility may provide for a remedial action facility . Remedial action may take a plurality of forms such as terminating or modifying an ongoing process or interaction sending a warning to a client or administration facility of an ongoing process or interaction executing a program or application to remediate against a threat or violation record interactions for subsequent evaluation or the like. Remedial action may be associated with an application that responds to information that a client facility network access request has been denied. In an embodiment when the data file is received remedial action may parse the data file interpret the various aspects of the data file and act on the parsed data file information to determine actions to be taken on an application requesting access to a denied network location. In an embodiment when the data file is received remedial action may access the threat definitions to parse the data file and determine an action to be taken on an application requesting access to a denied network location. In an embodiment the information received from the facility may be a command or a command file. The remedial action facility may carry out any commands that are received or parsed from a data file from the facility without performing any interpretation of the commands. In an embodiment the remedial action facility may interact with the received information and may perform various actions on a client requesting access to a denied network location. The action may be one or more of continuing to block all requests to a denied network location a malicious code scan on the application a malicious code scan on the client facility quarantine of the application terminating the application isolation of the application isolation of the client facility to a location within the network that restricts network access blocking a network access port from a client facility reporting the application to a administration facility or the like.

Remedial action may be provided as a result of a detection of a threat or violation. The detection techniques facility may include monitoring the enterprise facility network or end point devices such as by monitoring streaming data through the gateway across the network through routers and hubs and the like. The detection techniques facility may include monitoring activity and stored files on computing facilities such as on server facilities desktop computers laptop computers other mobile computing devices and the like. Detection techniques such as scanning a computer s stored files may provide the capability of checking files for stored threats either in the active or passive state. Detection techniques such as streaming file management may provide the capability of checking files received at the network gateway facility client facility and the like. This may provide the capability of not allowing a streaming file or portions of the streaming file containing malicious code from entering the client facility gateway facility or network. In an embodiment the streaming file may be broken into blocks of information and a plurality of virus identities may be used to check each of the blocks of information for malicious code. In an embodiment any blocks that are not determined to be clear of malicious code may not be delivered to the client facility gateway facility or network.

Verifying that the threat management facility is detecting threats and violations to established policy may require the ability to test the system either at the system level or for a particular computing component. The testing facility may allow the administration facility to coordinate the testing of the security configurations of client facility computing facilities on a network. The administration facility may be able to send test files to a set of client facility computing facilities to test the ability of the client facility to determine acceptability of the test file. After the test file has been transmitted a recording facility may record the actions taken by the client facility in reaction to the test file. The recording facility may aggregate the testing information from the client facility and report the testing information to the administration facility . The administration facility may be able to determine the level of preparedness of the client facility computing facilities by the reported information. Remedial action may be taken for any of the client facility computing facilities as determined by the administration facility remedial action may be taken by the administration facility or by the user of the client facility .

The threat research facility may provide a continuously ongoing effort to maintain the threat protection capabilities of the threat management facility in light of continuous generation of new or evolved forms of malware. Threat research may include researchers and analysts working on known and emerging malware such as viruses rootkits a spyware as well as other computer threats such as phishing spam scams and the like. In embodiments through threat research the threat management facility may be able to provide swift global responses to the latest threats.

The threat management facility may provide threat protection to the enterprise facility where the enterprise facility may include a plurality of networked components such as client facility server facility DNS server facility administration facility firewall gateway hubs routers threat management appliance desktop users mobile users and the like. In embodiments it may be the end point computer security facility located on a computer s desktop which may provide threat protection to a user and associated enterprise facility . In embodiments the term end point may refer to a computer system that may source data receive data evaluate data buffer data or the like such as a user s desktop computer as an end point computer a firewall as a data evaluation end point computer system a laptop as a mobile end point computer a PDA as a hand held end point computer. In embodiments end point may refer to a source or destination for data including such components where the destination is characterized by an evaluation point for data and where the data may be sent to a subsequent destination after evaluation. The end point computer security facility may be an application loaded onto the computer platform or computer support component where the application may accommodate the plurality of computer platforms and or functional requirements of the component. For instance a client facility computer may be one of a plurality of computer platforms such as Windows Macintosh Linux and the like where the end point computer security facility may be adapted to the specific platform while maintaining a uniform product and product services across platforms. Additionally components may have different functions to serve within the enterprise facility s networked computer based infrastructure. For instance computer support components provided as hubs routers server facility DNS server facility firewalls and the like may require unique security application software to protect their portion of the system infrastructure while providing an element in an integrated threat management system that extends out beyond the threat management facility to incorporate all computer resources under its protection.

The enterprise facility may include a plurality of client facility computing platforms on which the end point computer security facility is adapted. A client facility computing platform may be a computer system that is able to access a service on another computer such as a server facility via a network. This client facility server facility model may apply to a plurality of networked applications such as a client facility connecting to an enterprise facility application server facility a web browser client facility connecting to a web server facility an e mail client facility retrieving e mail from an internet service provider s mail storage servers and the like. In embodiments traditional large client facility applications may be switched to websites which may increase the browser s role as a client facility . Clients may be classified as a function of the extent to which they perform their own processing. For instance client facilities are sometimes classified as a fat client facility or thin client facility . The fat client facility also known as a thick client facility or rich client facility may be a client facility that performs the bulk of data processing operations itself and does not necessarily rely on the server facility . The fat client facility may be most common in the form of a personal computer where the personal computer may operate independent of any server facility . Programming environments for fat clients may include Curl Delphi Droplets Java win32 X11 and the like. Thin clients may offer minimal processing capabilities for instance the thin client facility may primarily provide a graphical user interface provided by an application server facility which may perform the bulk of any required data processing. Programming environments for thin clients may include JavaScript AJAX ASP JSP Ruby on Rails Python s Django PHP and the like. The client facility may also be a mix of the two such as processing data locally but relying on a server facility for data storage. As a result this hybrid client facility may provide benefits from both the fat client facility type such as multimedia support and high performance and the thin client facility type such as high manageability and flexibility. In embodiments the threat management facility and associated end point computer security facility may provide seamless threat protection to the plurality of clients and client facility types across the enterprise facility .

The enterprise facility may include a plurality of server facility such as application servers communications servers file servers database servers proxy servers mail servers fax servers game servers web servers and the like. A server facility which may also be referred to as a server facility application server facility operating system server facility computer or the like may be an application program or operating system that accepts client facility connections in order to service requests from clients . The server facility application may run on the same computer as the client facility using it or the server facility and the client facility may be running on different computers and communicating across the network. Server facility applications may be divided among server facility computers with the dividing depending upon the workload. For instance under light load conditions all server facility applications may run on a single computer and under heavy load conditions a single server facility application may run on multiple computers. In embodiments the threat management facility may provide threat protection to server facilities within the enterprise facility as load conditions and application changes are made.

A server facility may also be an appliance facility where the appliance facility provides specific services onto the network. Though the appliance facility is a server facility computer that may be loaded with a server facility operating system and server facility application the enterprise facility user may not need to configure it as the configuration may have been performed by a third party. In an embodiment an enterprise facility appliance may be a server facility appliance that has been configured and adapted for use with the threat management facility and located within the facilities of the enterprise facility . The enterprise facility s threat management appliance may enable the enterprise facility to administer an on site local managed threat protection configuration where the administration facility may access the threat resources through an interface such as a web portal. In an alternate embodiment the enterprise facility may be managed remotely from a third party vendor or the like without an appliance facility located within the enterprise facility . In this instance the appliance functionality may be a shared hardware product between pluralities of enterprises . In embodiments the appliance facility may be located at the enterprise facility where the enterprise facility maintains a degree of control. In embodiments a hosted service may be provided where the appliance may still be an on site black box to the enterprise facility physically placed there because of infrastructure requirements but managed by a third party vendor or the like.

Simple server facility appliances may also be utilized across the enterprise facility s network infrastructure such as switches routers wireless routers hubs gateways print servers net modems and the like. These simple server facility appliances may not require configuration by the enterprise facility but may require protection from threats via an end point computer security facility . These appliances may provide interconnection services within the enterprise facility network and therefore may advance the spread of a threat if not properly protected.

One way for a client facility to be protected from threats from within the enterprise facility network may be a personal firewall. A personal firewall may be an application that controls network traffic to and from a client permitting or denying communications based on a security policy. Personal firewalls may be designed for use by end users which may result in protection for only the computer on which it s installed. Personal firewalls may be able to control network traffic by providing prompts each time a connection is attempted and adapting security policy accordingly. Personal firewalls may also provide some level of intrusion detection which may allow the software to terminate or block connectivity where it suspects an intrusion is being attempted. Other features that may be provided by a personal firewall may include alerts about outgoing connection attempts control of program access to networks hiding the client from port scans by not responding to unsolicited network traffic monitoring of applications that may be listening for incoming connections monitoring and regulation of incoming and outgoing network traffic prevention of unwanted network traffic from installed applications reporting applications that make connection attempts reporting destination servers with which applications may be attempting communications and the like. In embodiments the personal firewall may be provided by the treat management facility .

Another important component that may be protected by an end point computer security facility is a network firewall facility which may be a hardware or software device that may be configured to permit deny or proxy data through a computer network that has different levels of trust in its source of data. For instance an internal enterprise facility network may have a high level of trust because the source of all data has been sourced from within the enterprise facility . An example of a low level of trust is the Internet because the source of data may be unknown. A zone with an intermediate trust level situated between the Internet and a trusted internal network may be referred to as a perimeter network . Since firewall facilities represent boundaries between threat levels the end point computer security facility associated with the firewall facility may provide resources that may control the flow of threats at this enterprise facility network entry point. Firewall facilities and associated end point computer security facility may also be associated with a network node that may be equipped for interfacing between networks that use different protocols. In embodiments the end point computer security facility may provide threat protection in a plurality of network infrastructure locations such as at the enterprise facility network entry point i.e. the firewall facility or gateway at the server facility at distribution points within the network i.e. the routers and hubs at the desktop of client facility computers and the like. In embodiments the most effective location for threat detection may be at the user s computer desktop end point computer security facility .

The interface between the threat management facility and the enterprise facility and through the appliance facility to embedded end point computer security facilities may include a set of tools that may be the same for all enterprise implementations but allow each enterprise to implement different controls. In embodiments these controls may include both automatic actions and managed actions. Automatic actions may include downloads of the end point computer security facility to components of the enterprise facility downloads of updates to existing end point computer security facilities of the enterprise facility uploaded network interaction requests from enterprise facility components to the threat management facility and the like. In embodiments automatic interactions between the enterprise facility and the threat management facility may be configured by the threat management facility and an administration facility in the enterprise facility . The administration facility may configure policy rules that determine interactions such as developing rules for accessing applications as in who is authorized and when applications may be used establishing rules for ethical behavior and activities rules governing the use of entertainment software such as games or personal use software such as IM and VoIP rules for determining access to enterprise facility computing resources including authentication levels of access risk assessment and usage history tracking rules for when an action is not allowed such as whether an action is completely deigned or just modified in its execution and the like. The administration facility may also establish license management which in turn may further determine interactions associated with a licensed application. In embodiments interactions between the threat management facility and the enterprise facility may provide threat protection to the enterprise facility by managing the flow of network data into and out of the enterprise facility through automatic actions that may be configured by the threat management facility or the administration facility .

Client facilities within the enterprise facility may be connected to the enterprise facility network by way of wired network facilities or wireless network facilities . Client facilities connected to the enterprise facility network via a wired facility or wireless facility may receive similar protection as both connection types are ultimately connected to the same enterprise facility network with the same end point computer security facility and the same threat protected enterprise facility environment. Mobile wireless facility clients because of their ability to connect to any wireless network access point may connect to the internet outside the enterprise facility and therefore outside the threat protected environment of the enterprise facility . In this instance the mobile client facility if not for the presence of the end point computer security facility may experience a malware attack or perform actions counter to enterprise facility established policies. In addition there may be a plurality of ways for the threat management facility to protect the out of enterprise facility mobile client facility that has an embedded end point computer security facility such as by providing URI filtering in personal routers using a web appliance as a DNS proxy or the like. Mobile client facilities that are components of the enterprise facility but temporarily outside connectivity with the enterprise facility network may be provided with the same threat protection and policy control as client facilities inside the enterprise facility . In addition mobile client facilities may receive the same interactions to and from the threat management facility as client facilities inside the enterprise facility where mobile client facilities may be considered a virtual extension of the enterprise facility receiving all the same services via their embedded end point computer security facility .

Interactions between the threat management facility and the components of the enterprise facility including mobile client facility extensions of the enterprise facility may ultimately be connected through the internet . Threat management facility downloads and upgrades to the enterprise facility may be passed from the firewalled networks of the threat management facility through to the end point computer security facility equipped components of the enterprise facility . In turn the end point computer security facility components of the enterprise facility may upload policy and access requests back across the internet and through to the threat management facility . The Internet however is also the path through which threats may be transmitted from their source. These network threats may include threats from a plurality of sources including websites e mail IM VoIP application software and the like. These threats may attempt to attack a mobile enterprise facility client facility equipped with an end point computer security facility but in embodiments as long as the mobile client facility is embedded with an end point computer security facility as described above threats may have no better success than if the mobile client facility where inside the enterprise facility .

However if the mobile client facility where to attempt to connect into an unprotected connection point such as at a secondary location that is not a part of the enterprise facility the mobile client facility may be required to request network interactions through the threat management facility where contacting the threat management facility may be performed prior to any other network action. In embodiments the client facility s end point computer security facility may manage actions in unprotected network environments such as when the client facility is in a secondary location or connecting wirelessly to a non enterprise facility wireless internet connection where the end point computer security facility may dictate what actions are allowed blocked modified or the like. For instance if the client facility s end point computer security facility is unable to establish a secured connection to the threat management facility the end point computer security facility may inform the user of such and recommend that the connection not be made. In the instance when the user chooses to connect despite the recommendation the end point computer security facility may perform specific actions during or after the unprotected connection is made including running scans during the connection period running scans after the connection is terminated storing interactions for subsequent threat and policy evaluation contacting the threat management facility upon first instance of a secured connection for further actions and or scanning restricting access to network and local resources or the like. In embodiments the end point computer security facility may perform specific actions to remediate possible threat incursions or policy violations during or after the unprotected connection.

The secondary location may have no end point computer security facilities as a part of its computer components such as its firewalls servers clients hubs wireless hubs and the like. As a result the computer components of the secondary location may be open to threat attacks and become potential sources of threats as well as any mobile enterprise facility clients that may be connected to the secondary location s network. In this instance these computer components may now unknowingly spread a threat to other components connected to the network.

Some threats may not come directly from the Internet such as from non enterprise facility controlled mobile devices that are physically brought into the enterprise facility and connected to the enterprise facility client facilities . The connection may be made from direct connection with the enterprise facility s client facility such as through a USB port or in physical proximity with the enterprise facility s client facility such that a wireless facility connection can be established such as through a Bluetooth connection. These physical proximity threats may be another mobile computing device a portable memory storage device a mobile communications device or the like such as CDs and DVDs memory stick flash drive external hard drive cell phone PDAs MP3 players digital cameras point to point devices or the like. A physical proximity threat may have been previously infiltrated by network threats while connected to an unprotected network connection outside the enterprise facility and when connected to the enterprise facility client facility pose a threat. Because of their mobile nature physical proximity threats may infiltrate computing resources in any location such as being physically brought into the enterprise facility site connected to an enterprise facility client facility while that client facility is mobile plugged into an unprotected client facility at a secondary location and the like. A mobile device once connected to an unprotected computer resource may become a physical proximity threat . In embodiments the end point computer security facility may provide enterprise facility computing resources with threat protection against physical proximity threats for instance through scanning the device prior to allowing data transfers through security validation certificates through establishing a safe zone within the enterprise facility computing resource to transfer data into for evaluation and the like.

Now that the overall system has been described we turn towards a set of network identification via domain name system DNS server embodiments. It should be understood that the following network identification via DNS server embodiments may be managed through a threat management facility along with other services such as those described herein.

Clients may move amongst a plurality of locations where each location may have a unique set of malware threats. One of these malware threats may be a network threat . For instance and as shown in the client A C may be within the enterprise where network threats have been minimized due to layers of endpoint security facilities in enterprise components related to the client A C such as in a firewall A a server A a DNS server A B a hub A a wireless hub A and the like. Likewise the client D E may be outside the enterprise where network threats may only be minimized by the end point security facility in the client D E such as when the client F is exposed to secondary location threats when the client D E is connected to the Internet in association with a DNS server C that is not associated with the enterprise when the client D F is connected to other network threats outside the enterprise or the like.

A client may be able to increase the ease of use in computing and the level of security from malware threats if the client could identify whether it was on a secure known network A B or not. For instance the client could increase the ease of use in computing by allowing greater network access when the client A C is connected to a known network A B within the control of an enterprise administrator . Likewise the client could increase the level of security from network threats by restricting network access when the client D F is connected to networks C not within the control of the administrator such as when the client D E is connected directly to the Internet when the client F is connected to a secondary location threat or the like. In addition these changes in network access may be automatically prompted by policy management as security characteristics for the network are identified. For example if the client D F connects to a new network C that is not a known network A B policy management may direct the client D F to restrict network access in order to increase the level of security. In another example the client A C may connect to a network A B that is identified as a known network A B and as a result may be directed through policy management to increase network access. In embodiments policy management may include a plurality of rules associated with the location of a network they are connected to or if the network is known or unknown such as security rules usage rules configuration rules user rules rules associated with groups of enterprise users rules associated with subsidiary locations rules associated with time zones rules associated with time of day and the like.

In embodiments a client may identify whether it is on a known network A B that is a network A B within the control of the administrator through the use of DNS servers . One of the main functions of a DNS server is to map domain names such as www.example.com into an IP address such as 166.44.283.346. It is the IP address that is ultimately required for accessing content at the location specified by the domain name. However the use of domain names may allow users to specify easy to remember mnemonic names for addresses on the Internet rather than long numerical IP addresses. DNS servers provide a lookup function that translates the user input domain name into the required IP address. These name and IP address pairs are supplied to the DNS server by administrators that control the domain name and thus the administrator may specify any name and IP address pair desired. These pairs are then typically registered and propagated through a DNS server hierarchy throughout the Internet . However the administrator may also supply a secure name and secure IP address pair that is not registered and is therefore only known to the DNS server that represents an access point internal to the enterprise DNS server A B within the control of the administrator . DNS servers C D that are external to the enterprise and not within the control of the administrator are therefore not configured with secure name and secure IP addresses by the administrator and may therefore not be able to match an incoming secure name to an IP address.

In embodiments DNS servers A B may be provided secure name and secure IP address pairs that uniquely identify them to clients A C that are local to them. For example an administrator may supply a DNS server A B with an unregistered secure name of lookup.soo.com and a secure IP address of 127.0.0.2. Now if a client A C requests the URI lookup.soo.com the DNS server A B will reply with the secure IP address 127.0.0.2. In embodiments a domain name rather than an IP address may be used to identify DNS servers A B and networks A B local to them. In addition there may be multiple secure name and secure IP address pairs multiple secure names multiple secure IP addresses and the like that may be used to identify DNS servers A B and networks A B local to them. In embodiments the selection of the secure name may utilize a globally unique identifier GUID include a domain name and the like. In addition the globally unique name may be associated with a function associated with an enterprise resolve into a single unique secure IP address not be available to hosts outside the enterprise and the like.

In this way the client A C that has been provided with the secure name and secure IP address pairs from the administrator may now identify that it is connected to one of these internally configured known DNS servers A B. Conversely when a client E G sends out the secure name and receives nothing in return the client D F may interpret that it is not connected to a known DNS server A B and therefore to an unknown DNS server C D and associated network C. With this knowledge the client in conjunction with policy management may be able to alter network access protocols in relation to known networks A B verses unknown networks C.

At step of the process the administrator may add DNS secure name and secure IP address entries corresponding to an unregistered name such as lookup.soo.com to the internal access DNS servers A B. The administrator may be capable of adding DNS entries corresponding to DNS servers A B that are within administrator s control and thus are known and secure networks A B. For example the administrator may be able to add DNS entries for the DNS servers A B. Each DNS server A B may get a unique secure IP address that uniquely identify them to the clients A C local to them. In the case as presented in the UK network may be provided with the secure IP address of 127.0.0.2 and the US network may be provided with the secure IP address of 127.0.0.3 where the secure IP address may utilize a loop back IP address.

Following this at step the administrator may configure the clients in such a manner that the clients may request the URI lookup.soo.com when they are connecting to a new network . The new network may be a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN or the like. In context of the new network may be a network A associated with U.K. network a network B associated with U.S. network a network C associated with a secondary location or the Internet .

Now because of the configurations made by the administrator the clients may request the URI lookup.soo.com when connecting to the new network . Based on the request the DNS sever A B may reply with a secure IP address. The secure IP address obtained from the DNS server A B may be matched to a table configuration list of acceptable IP addresses. As a result of the matching the clients may know whether they are connected to a network A B controlled by the administrator .

Now that the overall process flow has been described briefly we turn towards a scenario as shown in in which a client moves from the U.K. network A to the U.S. network B and then directly onto the an unknown network C which may be any network not under the control of the administrator or directly onto the Internet . In this scenario the U.K. network A and the U.S. network B are known networks.

At step the client may be connected to a new network i.e. the U.K. network A. As the client connects to the U.K. network A it makes a request for the URI lookup.soo.com to the DNS server A. Following this the DNS server A replies with the IP address 127.0.0.2 i.e. the IP address associated with the U.K. network A. The client compares the IP address reply with a configuration list. The configuration list contains a list of known networks as previously supplied by the administrator .

In this case the IP address 127.0.0.2 denotes that the client is connected to the U.K. network A which is a known network. After obtaining this knowledge about the network the client may perform one or more actions. The actions may be to automatically trust a network say the network A examining internal policy rules for further direction accessing external policy rules and the like.

Now when the client moves from the U.K. network A to the U.S. network B at step the client again makes a request for the URI lookup.soo.com to the DNS server A B at step . In response to the request made at step the DNS server A B replies with the IP address 127.0.0.3 at step . The IP address reply indicates that the client is now on the U.S. network B.

Going further the client may move from the U.S. network B to an unknown network say the Internet or some other network not within the control of the administrator at step . As the client connects to the network C it makes a request to the DNS server C at step . The request made by the client at step is similar to the requests made by the client at steps and . However in this case the DNS server C may not find a matching IP address for the URI lookup.soo.com because the network C is not a known network.

In such a scenario the DNS server A B may either send no reply to the request made by the client or send an error message at step . In one embodiment the DNS server A B may reply with an IP address corresponding to some help facility. Further the reply obtained from the DNS server A B is compared with the configuration list.

The comparison of the reply with the configuration list suggests that the network C is an unknown network as no match for the reply is found in the configuration list. With this knowledge the client in conjunction with policy management may be able to alter network access rules in relation to known verses unknown networks.

In embodiments the DNS server A B may be accessed at logical block . The DNS server A B may be a DNS server within the control of the administrator . Further the DNS server A B may be configured by the administrator . In one embodiment while configuring the DNS server A B the administrator may assign a security IP name and security address pair to the DNS server A B. The security IP name and security address pair may be used as an identity for the DNS server A B. For example the administrator may supply the server A B with an unregistered name of xyz.abc.com and an IP address of 127.0.0.X. Further this name and IP address pair may be used to identify the DNS server A B. In embodiments the security IP name and security address pair assignment may be related to the networks associated with a DNS server and the client such as having a common network between the DNS server and the client .

In embodiments the administrator may store a pair of name and IP address on the DNS server A B at logical block . The administrator may store the pair of name and IP address on a plurality of DNS servers A B within their control such as to all of the DNS servers A B within their control to DNS servers A B that are to be identified to DNS servers A B that are associated with clients to DNS servers A B that are associated with a location to DNS servers A B that are associated with a function and the like. In the embodiment illustrated in the administrator may provide a common name and IP address to all DNS servers A B that are to be so configured. This represents only one possible embodiment of the invention where in other embodiments a plurality of name and IP address pairs may be utilized. In embodiments the name and IP address may not refer to a physical machine.

In embodiments the client may transmit a name to the DNS server to request the DNS server to lookup the IP address related to the client transmitted name at logical block . The client may perform the transmission upon first connection to the network first request on the network when the client first boots up when the client initializes the network and the like. The name that the client transmits may have been previously supplied by the administrator such as when the administrator was configuring name and IP addresses to a plurality of DNS servers A B and clients within their control. The client may transmit the same name when the client initiates a network connection such as a network connection at a new geographical location a network connection on which they have been connected before an additional network connection to the client where the client has a plurality of network connections and the like.

In embodiments the DNS server A B may return the IP address to the client A C in response to the connection request at logical block . In the embodiment illustrated in the DNS server A B may have only one name and IP address pair recorded into the DNS server A B by the administrator . This represents only one possible embodiment of the invention where in other embodiments a plurality of name and IP address pair combinations may be utilized. In this embodiment though the DNS server A B may look up the name transmitted by the client A C and find the matching IP address. The DNS server A B may then return the IP address to the client A C.

In embodiments the client A C may interpret the return of the IP address as an indication of a known DNS server A B and therefore a known network A B at logical block . The client A C may receive the returned IP address from the DNS server and compare the IP address to the secure IP address previously stored in the client by the administrator . If the client finds that the IP address returned from the DNS server is a match then the IP address is the IP address and the client may interpret that it is connected to a known DNS server across a known network A B where the known DNS server and associated network is within the control of the administrator . If the client finds that the IP address returned does not match the stored IP address the client may interpret that it is connected to an unknown DNS server C D across an unknown network C where the unknown DNS server C D and associated network are not within the control of the administrator . The return of an IP address to the client that is not the expected IP address may be the result of a DNS server attempting to steer the client to some website associated with a failure to match a name to an IP address such as a help related website.

In embodiments the client may interpret a lack of return from the DNS server or a return of an error message from the DNS server as an indication that the client is connected to an unknown network C D. The lack of return or the return of an error message may be an indication that the DNS server is not an internal access DNS server A B that is a DNS server under the control of the administrator because the DNS server was unable to match the client transmitted name to an IP address.

In embodiments the client as a result of interpreting that the client is on a known network A B may set its security rules according to known network rules at logical block according to an administrator managed policy. The client as a result of interpreting that the client is on an unknown network C may set its security rules according to unknown network rules. Security rules may include network access rules such as associated with open access restricted access no access and the like where access may be related to a location of the client a current location of the client a previous location of the client a home location of the client and the like. In addition the interpretation that the client is connected to an unknown network C may be to have the client disconnect from the unknown network C.

In embodiments the client as a result of interpreting that the client is on a known network A B may take some action such as acknowledging that the client is on a known network A B look up a list of network parameters associated with the known network A B go to a network location on the known network A B and retrieve information associated with operating on the known network A B go to a central location and retrieve information associated with operating on the known network A B and the like. For example the client may simply acknowledge that it is on a known network A B and continue operating normally as opposed to taking preventative measures in the case of not being on a known network A B. The client may have a list of attributes for various known networks A B on the client where the client may go to this list of attributes for what could or should be done when connecting to the known network A B. The client may go to a location on the known network A B say a server A on the known network A B where information may be found instructing the client as to what may be done on the known network A B what restrictions exist on the known network A B and the like. The client may go to a central location on the internet such as to a server A associated with the threat management facility where information may be found instructing the client as to what may be done on the known network A B what restrictions exist on the known network A B and the like. In embodiments the client may take this action as a part of policy prior to accessing policy to download policy to update policy and the like.

In embodiments the plurality of DNS servers A B may be accessed at logical block . The plurality of DNS servers A B may include a DNS server within the control of the administrator . Further the plurality of DNS servers A B may be configured by the administrator . In one embodiment while configuring the DNS server A B the administrator may assign a security IP name and security address pair to each of the DNS servers . The security IP name and security address pair may be used as a unique identity for each of the DNS servers A B. For example the administrator may supply each server A B with a common unregistered name of xyz.abc.com for all the servers A B and a unique matched IP address to each DNS server A B. Further this common name and unique IP address pair may be used to identify the identity and location of the DNS server A B. In embodiments the security IP name and security address pair assignment may be related to the networks and the location of the networks associated with a DNS server and the client such as having a common network between the DNS server and the client .

In embodiments the administrator may store a unique location specific IP address on each of the plurality of DNS servers A B at logical block where all of the location specific IP addresses on the plurality of DNS servers A B may have the same name. The administrator may store the common name and unique IP addresses on the plurality of DNS servers A B within their control such as to all of the DNS servers A B within their control DNS servers A B that are to be identified DNS servers A B that are associated with clients DNS servers A B that are associated with a location DNS servers A B that are associated with a function and the like. This represents only one possible embodiment of the invention where in other embodiments a plurality of name and IP address pairs may be utilized.

In embodiments the client may transmit a name to the DNS server to request the DNS server to lookup the IP address related to the client transmitted name at logical block . The client may perform the transmission upon first connection to the network first request on the network when the client first boots up when the client initializes the network and the like. The name that the client transmits may have been previously supplied by the administrator such as when the administrator was configuring name and IP addresses to a plurality of DNS servers A B and clients within their control. The client may transmit the same name when the client initiates a network connection such as a network connection at a new geographical location a network connection on which they have been connected before an additional network connection to the client where the client has a plurality of network connections and the like.

In embodiments the DNS server may return the IP address to the client in response to the connection request at logical block . In the embodiment illustrated in the DNS server may have only one name and a plurality of IP address pairs recorded into the DNS server by the administrator . This represents only one possible embodiment of the invention where in other embodiments a plurality of name and IP address pair combinations may be utilized. In this embodiment though the DNS server may look up the name transmitted by the client and find the matching IP address. The DNS server may then return the IP address to the client .

In embodiments the client may interpret the return of the location specific IP address as an indication of a known DNS server and therefore a known network A B at logical block . The client may receive the returned IP address from the DNS server and compare the IP address to one of the secure IP addresses previously stored in the client by the administrator . If the client finds that the IP address returned from the DNS server is a match to one of the entries then the IP address is the IP address and the client may interpret that it is connected to a known DNS server across a known network A B where the known DNS server and associated network is within the control of the administrator . If the client finds that the IP address returned does not match any of the stored IP addresses the client may interpret that it is connected to an unknown DNS server C across an unknown network C where the unknown DNS server C and associated network are not within the control of the administrator . The return of an IP address to the client that is not the expected IP address may be the result of a DNS server attempting to steer the client to some website associated with a failure to match a name to an IP address such as a help related website.

In embodiments the client may interpret a lack of return from the DNS server or a return of an error message from the DNS server as an indication that the client is connected to an unknown network C. The lack of return or the return of an error message may be an indication that the DNS server is not an internal access DNS server A B that is a DNS server under the control of the administrator because the DNS server was unable to match the client transmitted name to an IP address.

In embodiments the client may interpret the return of the location specific IP address to determine its location at logical block where its location may be determined by matching the returned IP address to a table of secure IP addresses in the client. The table of secure IP addresses may have been created by the administrator where each secure IP address may correspond to the location of the internal access DNS server A B that it was assigned. The table may then have been sent to clients that are under the control of the administrator . With this table the client may now determine not only that the network A B is known that is by receiving an IP address that is found in the table but also the location of the known network A B by matching the specific IP address to the corresponding location of the internal access DNS server A B and thus the location of the known network associated with the internal access DNS server. In embodiments the location may be a country a geographic region a privately controlled location a publicly controlled location a business an enterprise a residence a government facility and the like.

In embodiments the client as a result of interpreting that the client is on a known network A B may set its security rules according to known network rules at logical block according to an administrator managed policy. The client as a result of interpreting that the client is on an unknown network C may set its security rules according to unknown network rules. Security rules may include network access rules such as associated with open access restricted access no access and the like where access may be related to a location of the client a current location of the client a previous location of the client a home location of the client and the like. In addition the interpretation that the client is connected to an unknown network C may be to have the client disconnect from the unknown network C.

In embodiments the communications between the client and the DNS server may be through secured transaction such as the request made by the client being an encrypted request and the DNS server decrypting the request the DNS server sending an encrypted reply to the client and the client decrypting the request encrypted communications between the administration and the client encrypted communications between the administration and the DNS server and the like. In embodiments the need for secured transactions may be associated with the possible threat of a third party intercepting unsecured communications and deceiving the client into believing they are on a known network. In embodiments the present invention may provide secure transactions between the client DNS servers and administration to provide greater protection from threats .

In embodiments the DNS server may be a domain name system security extension DNSSEC server. The DNSSEC server may provide secured transactions such as through authentication of DNS data data integrity forged DNS data protection digital signatures authoritative DNS servers cryptographic certificates and the like. In embodiments communications between the client and the DNS server A B may employ a DNSSEC server use services provided by a DNSSEC server combine encryption with a DNSSEC server combine confidentiality services with a DNSSEC server combine denial of service DoS with a DNSSEC server and the like.

The elements depicted in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure. Thus while the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of these suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

