---

title: Power management for a communications system
abstract: Described herein is a method and system for facilitating power management in a communications system. The communications system includes a server and one or more communications devices operably coupled to a network, each communications device being operable to enter a low power state in response to a “hibernate” command. The “hibernate” command may be provided by a power management unit in the server in response to, for example, a change in routing preference, location or availability status of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645507&OS=08645507&RS=08645507
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 08645507
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081105
---
This invention generally relates to communications systems and particularly to improvements in power management of such systems.

Unified Communications UC applications are becoming the preferred communications solution for enterprises. These applications provide a multi modal solution for real time delivery of voice and data communications based on the preferred method and location of the system user. UC applications replace legacy voice private branch exchange PBX with a much more powerful flexible and configurable communications solution.

A UC product typically includes server elements and user endpoint elements. User endpoint elements comprise for example Internet Protocol IP telephones. An IP telephone generally has the form and appearance of a traditional office telephone. However its internal structure resembles that of a computing device more than a legacy office telephone. A typical IP telephone consumes about 25 Watts when active. Since IP telephones are generally always on their annual energy consumption may be as much as 220 kilowatt hour kWh per year per telephone. Assuming a cost of 0.15 for each kWh for example this energy consumption yields a significant energy cost of about 33 per year for each IP telephone.

As such there is a need for new communications solutions to be green or more energy efficient which in turn reduces the carbon footprint of the offered solution.

A method and system for facilitating power management in a communications system is described herein. The communications system includes a server and one or more communications devices operably coupled to a network each communications device being operable to enter a low power state in response to a hibernate command. The hibernate command may be provided by a power management unit in the server in response to for example a change in routing preference location or availability status of the user.

In the following description for purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods and in order to meet statutory written description enablement and best mode requirements. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present systems and methods may be practiced without the specific exemplary details. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified to clarify the description of the exemplary implementations of present systems and methods and to thereby better explain the present system and methods. Furthermore for ease of understanding certain method steps are delineated as separate steps however these separately delineated steps should not be construed as necessarily order dependent in their performance.

The following description sets forth one or more implementations of systems and methods that facilitate a power management scheme for a communications system. illustrates an exemplary environment in which a power management scheme can be implemented. In particular shows a communications system having a unified communications UC architecture that provides unified voice messaging services and data services via an Internet Protocol IP network. It is noted that while a particular UC architecture is shown the invention is not limited to the specific embodiment illustrated. The present embodiment has application to any suitable UC system such as for example the OpenScape system available from Siemens Enterprise Communications Inc. See generally White Paper by Thomas Weimers and Tim Wilson Introduction to the OpenScape Unified Communications UC Server. A major stride towards delivering the full Unified Communications solution Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH Co KG March 2008 which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. Other UC or non UC systems such as those provided by Cisco Avaya and Nortel may also be used.

As shown in the communications system includes a server and one or more communications devices operably coupled to a network . Network may be a local area network LAN the internet or the like. In addition network may be implemented using an Internet Protocol Suite TCP IP network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using for example Session Initiation Protocol SIP . A gateway providing access to a public network may also be coupled to network . Gateway may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange PBX the public switched telephone network PSTN or any of a variety of other networks such as a wireless personal communications services PCS a cellular network or the Internet.

Server is operably coupled to network to host the signaling functionality of the communications system . Server may be a desktop personal computer a portable laptop computer another portable device a minicomputer a mainframe computer a storage system a dedicated digital appliance another device having a storage sub system configured to store a collection of digital data items a microprocessor or other computing device. Alternatively server may be embodied as a distributed system comprising multiple computers microprocessors or other computing devices. For example a standard duplex OpenScape server may comprise one computer for the OpenScape UC application suite and one computer for the OpenScape Voice Communications infrastructure i.e. soft switch unit . Server may also include one or more controllers not shown and processor storage media e.g. computer storage or memory for storing application programs data and other processor executable instructions. Server may provide a variety of services to various associated communications devices including computers telephones personal digital assistants text messaging units and the like. Thus as will be explained in greater detail below server may implement multiple applications as well as or including a power management unit PMU according to various implementations.

One or more communications devices and may be operably coupled to network . Communications devices include computing devices and other network capable devices . It is to be understood that a communications device may be any device capable of communicating via network . Further the communications device may be operable to enter a low power state in response to a hibernate signal or command as will be discussed more fully below.

Computing devices may include personal computers laptop computers desktop computers tablet computers workstations hand held computers personal digital assistants and the like. The computing devices may implement network application programs e.g. soft clients or soft phones that provide telephony services by interacting with server . It is to be understood that such telephony services may be invoked by either first party or third party control. First party control is provided by the network application program that directly invokes telephony requests against a telephony switch via for example SIP. Third party control is provided by an external client which sends a request to the UC server which in turn routes communications to at least one endpoint which may include a network application program a soft client or any other device e.g. PSTN or cell phone . In addition computing devices may include other multimedia messaging capabilities not shown using for example peripheral cameras microphones and speakers or peripheral telephony handsets.

Network capable devices include LAN or IP telephones video conferencing devices cellular telephones or any suitable wireless network capable device or multi function wireless capable device. One example of an IP telephone is the OpenStage IP telephone available from Siemens Enterprise Communications Inc. Examples of wireless capability may include a wireless LAN WLAN or a Wi Fi connection such as an IEEE 802.11a or 802.11b adapter a cell phone capability or card or a Bluetooth connection adapter. Network capable devices may also be any suitable wireless communications device such as a second generation 2G or third generation 3G wireless communications device e.g. a typical cellular phone with text messaging a wireless capable personal digital assistant PDA or a multi function wireless capable device.

In one implementation a communications device may be associated or identifiable with at least one user of the communications system . The association between the communications device and the user or location may be established either statically or dynamically. The actual association may depend on the specific type of UC architecture or application used. Static association refers to the fixed association or identification of the communications device with at least one particular user. Such communications device may be dedicated to or exclusively used by a single user. Alternatively it may be non dedicated or shared between multiple users. Dynamic association refers to the association of the communications device with at least one user on an as needed basis according to certain pre defined rules. When such pre defined rules are deleted from the system the dynamic association generally ends.

Dynamic association occurs when the communications system actively selects the communications device and uses it in a particular communications session. For example in a scenario when a user is waiting for an important call from a customer but is currently in the conference room instead of his office he may configure a rule that routes calls from this customer to an extra shared telephone in the conference room. Even though the phone is not statically associated with the user the rule allows the phone to be dynamically associated with the user by causing the communications system to dynamically bind any incoming calls from the customer to the user and route the calls to the extra conference room phone.

A communications device or may include a computer platform equipped with audio or voice processing circuits such as digital signal processing DSP chips dedicated input output I O components e.g. keyboard touch screen audio components e.g. handset speaker or headset or a combination thereof. A LAN controller not shown may also be included in the communications device or . The LAN controller may be based on for example 10 100 MHz Ethernet technology.

In addition the LAN controller may include a hardware power management module PMM as shown. PMM functions to conserve power by turning off substantially all circuits in the communications device other than itself in response to a hibernate command. The hibernate command may be issued from for example PMU which will be discussed more fully below. Consequently the communications device will be placed in a low power state or standby state consuming very low power. The power that the communications device consumes during the low power state varies depending on the specific device. For example an IP telephone may consume about 25 Watts while in a normal operational state and only about 5 Watts while in a low power state. 

In another implementation the LAN controller initiates a power management protocol in response to the hibernate command. It is to be understood that the power management protocol may be initiated with or without hardware PMM . If no hardware PMM is provided the LAN controller may simply initiate the power management protocol upon receipt of the hibernate command. The complexity of the communications device is advantageously reduced in such case. If hardware PMM is provided the LAN controller may initiate the power management protocol based on the hibernate input command and or internal device knowledge. In other words the hibernate input command serves as an additional factor for the LAN controller to consider in determining whether the device is to be placed in a lower power state. Device knowledge includes for example the time that the device was last used low battery condition manual control and the like. For example if device knowledge indicates that the device was inactive for a period of time the LAN controller may initiate the power management protocol. In addition if PMM receives a hibernate command indicating that the device is not likely to be used the LAN controller also initiates the power management protocol.

One example of such power management protocol is the Ethernet proxy protocol as defined by the Ethernet Alliance. See generally White Paper by Bruce Nordman and Ken Christensen Improving the Energy Efficiency of Ethernet Connected Devices. A Proposal for Proxying Version 1.0 September 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. The Ethernet Proxy protocol enables the communications device to consume very low power while still participating in important networking and routing protocols. For example a low power power management proxy may be used to maintain full network presence for a sleeping high power communications device. The proxy may cover for the sleeping device by generating and responding to routine network and application layer packets. The proxy wakes up the device it is covering for only when it cannot handle a valid request thereby enabling the device to sleep and save energy.

An exemplary server environment capable of being adapted for use in a system according to the present implementation is the OpenScape system available from Siemens Enterprise Communications Inc. Such an environment may be implemented in conjunction with any suitable operating system including but not limited to Linux Unix Apple and Microsoft Windows. In addition such environment may be implemented with various tools related to directory integration e.g. Microsoft Active Directory database integration e.g. IBM solidDB Microsoft SQL Server groupware integration e.g. Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino and or collaboration integration e.g. Microsoft Office Live Communications Server IBM Lotus Sametime . It is noted that the various control units discussed herein may be implemented as any suitable hardware firmware and software or any combinations thereof.

In one implementation application suite includes a One Number Service Unit . The One Number Service Unit implements the One Number Service feature which allows a user to specify a single number to reach the user regardless of how many devices the user has. The One Number Service Unit maintains a preferred device list associated with each user specifying one or more communications devices or communications medium to which incoming communications are routed. Preferred device list may be stored on the server as shown or at distributed locations e.g. on one or more connected communications devices . The actual preferred device list information stored depends on the specific service used.

The user may specify one or more preferred communications devices e.g. IP telephone cellular telephone PDA desktop computer or laptop computer on the preferred device list . The One Number Service Unit then routes the user s incoming communications to the communications devices specified in the user s preferred device list . The communications devices in the preferred device list may also be used for the initiation of outgoing communications. Communications may include the transmission of video data audio data graphical data text data multimedia data data files or a combination thereof. Other types of data or media may also be included in the communications. Such communications may be used in various applications such as voice calls video calls video conferencing e mails instant messages file sharing and so forth.

In addition the One Number Service Unit may be implemented with a rules engine not shown to allow for finer granularity in routing the incoming communications. The rules engine may allow for the definition of default and or special routing rules. Default rules are generally automatically predefined in the system to provide for good behavior. For example a default rule may be pre defined to route incoming voice calls to a routing list of one or more communications devices. A special rule may be defined by the user to override the default rule for certain circumstances. For example the user may specify a special rule to route incoming calls from ACME Manufacturing to my cell phone. 

Power Management Unit PMU may be configured to monitor the preferred device list for changes made by the user. In one implementation when the user specifies a new preferred device in the preferred device list PMU generates or updates a non preferred device list not shown associated with the user. The non preferred device list specifies one or more communications devices that are associated with the user but are not listed on the preferred device list . The non preferred device list may be merged with an unused device list described below if available to generate a hibernate device list . For each communications device specified in the non preferred device list or the hibernate device list PMU is configurable to send a hibernate command to the communications device.

In one implementation the PMM residing in the communications device turns off substantially all circuits in the device but itself in response to the hibernate command. Consequently the devices on the hibernate device list are placed in a low power or standby state thereby consuming very low power and having substantially zero carbon footprint. PMM may operate to return the communications device to normal or full power operational state when the communications device becomes a potential routing target or is removed from the hibernate device list . PMM may also return the communications device to normal operational state when the communications device is physically accessed by a user. Emergency usage of the communications devices is not jeopardized due to the fast power on time of the communications devices. For example IP telephones have fast power on time and in case of an emergency the IP telephone can be switched on in a few seconds and used for dialing the required emergency services.

Non preferred device list defines one or more communications devices associated with the user but are not specified in the preferred device list . Such devices may be dedicated devices non dedicated devices or a combination thereof. Dedicated devices are used exclusively by the user. Non dedicated devices are used non exclusively by the user or shared between multiple users. If non preferred device list defines non dedicated devices PMU keeps track of all the users of each non dedicated device. In one implementation the hibernate command is only sent to the non dedicated device when the non dedicated device is not specified in any of the users preferred device lists .

Application suite may further include a presence service unit which functions to maintain presence information or identity context information associated with each user. Presence information may be stored on server as shown or at distributed locations e.g. on one or more connected communications devices . The actual presence information stored depends on the specific presence service used. In one implementation presence information indicates the presence and or availability states of the user such as In the Office On Vacation Working Remotely Busy In Meeting Be Right Back Do not Disturb and so forth. In addition the presence service unit may provide aggregated presence information by media type e.g. voice video instant messaging email across multiple communications devices associated with a user. For example if a user is accessible by any telephone device e.g. office phone home phone mobile phone the aggregated presence information for the user would indicate accessibility via the media type telephone. Based on the aggregated presence information for each media type e.g. available via telephone available via video web camera unavailable via email others can select the best medium to communicate with this user.

Presence information may further include calendar data contact data time zone text notes location data or any data that might be found in a personal information manager PIM application. Such PIM information may be used to automatically change the presence and or availability states of the user. For example calendar data showing that the user is scheduled to be in a meeting can be used to set the user presence to In Meeting and the location field to the meeting location at the scheduled time.

PMU may be configured to monitor the presence information to detect any change in the user s current location or availability for communications purposes. In one implementation PMU generates an unused device list not shown to specify all devices that are not likely to be used by the user because the user is in a new location or is unavailable for communications purposes. For example if the presence information indicates that the user is scheduled to work from a non local location on a particular day e.g. Working from home or On Business Trip PMU adds local devices e.g. located in the office associated with the user to the unused device list. In another example if the presence information indicates that the user is currently unavailable for communications e.g. In Meeting Out to Lunch On Vacation PMU adds all the devices associated with the user to the unused device list.

In one implementation the unused device list is merged with the non preferred device list described above if available to generate the hibernate device list . For each communications device listed on the hibernate device list PMU sends a hibernate command to conserve energy.

In addition application suite may further include a location service unit to provide location information associated with each user. In one implementation location information provides the current geolocation of the user. Geolocation refers to the real world geographic location of a user and may be derived by looking up the Internet Protocol IP address or Media Access Control MAC address associated with the communications device on a WHOIS service and retrieving the registrant s address. Other methods of providing the user s geolocation such as radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location technologies or global positional system GPS may also be used.

Location information may be used to determine where the user is currently located or where the user is currently not located. For example if the location information shows that a user is in Los Angeles it can safely determine that the user s associated devices in San Jose may not be used and therefore can be placed in low power state. PMU may be configured to monitor the location information to detect any change in the user s location. If the location information indicates that the user is in a location away from some of his or her devices PMU generates an unused device list not shown . The unused device list specifies the devices associated with the previous location that the user cannot use because he or she is in the new location.

PMU merges the unused device list with the non preferred device list if available to generate the hibernate device list . PMU then sends a hibernate command to the communications devices specified on the hibernate device list . One advantage of using location information is that in situations where the user forgets to update his or her preferred device list or presence information the change in location information will automatically cause PMU to send the hibernate commands to the respective devices on the hibernate device list to conserve power.

In one implementation PMU further maintains a non dedicated device list . Zero use count entries in the non dedicated device list may be merged with the hibernate device list . shows an exemplary data structure for the non dedicated device list . The non dedicated device list defines one or more non dedicated or shared communications devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and the users that are associated with each device e.g. User X User Y User Z . For each communications device on the list a use count is maintained. The use count of a device tracks the number of users routing their incoming communications to that device. The routing may be performed either manually or automatically. To perform the routing manually the user specifies the device on his or her respective preferred device list. Alternatively the routing may be performed automatically by server when it detects for example a change in presence information or location information associated with the user. If the use count of a device reaches zero see for example Device C indicating that no users are routing their communications to that device a hibernate command is sent to that device to place it in low power state. 

Referring to a method of managing power in a communications system is shown. Method generally comprises monitoring information associated with a user and determining if a change in the information indicates that a communications device associated with the user is not likely to be used. If the change in information indicates that the associated communications device is not likely to be used a hibernate command is sent to that communications device causing it to enter a low power state.

More specifically at PMU monitors the preferred device list associated with each user for any changes. The preferred device list may specify one or more communications devices as destinations to route incoming communications for the user.

At PMU generates a non preferred device list in response to a change in preferred device list. Non preferred device list defines one or more devices used by or associated with the user but are not stored in the preferred device list . The communications devices may be dedicated devices non dedicated devices or a combination thereof.

At PMU merges the non preferred device list with an unused device list if available to generate the hibernate device list. The unused device list may be generated in response to a change in presence information at or a change in location information at as will be described in more details below.

At PMU monitors the presence information or identity context information associated with each user to detect any changes. Presence information includes for example user presence information employee calendar data contact data or any data that might be found in a PIM application.

At the change in presence information is evaluated to determine if there is a change in the user s location or availability for communications purposes. If the change in presence information indicates no location or availability change change processing is completed at . If the change in presence information indicates a location or availability change an unused device list is generated at . The unused device list specifies devices that are not likely to be used by the user because of the user s new location or unavailability for communications purposes.

The unused device list may also be generated by detecting a change in location information at . Location information provides information about the current location of the user. A change in location information indicates that the user is in a location away from at least one of the devices associated with the user. PMU may add to the unused device list the one or more devices that the user cannot or is not likely to use due to the user s current location.

At the unused device list may be merged with the non preferred device list if available to generate the hibernate device list . At PMU sends hibernate commands to the one or more communications devices defined in the hibernate device list . Such devices are placed in a low power or standby state in response to the hibernate commands thereby consuming very low power.

The present method of managing power in a communications system as described above may be extended to control other power consuming elements associated with the user. For example if the user is On a Business Trip or in a location away from the office PMU may send a power off command to lighting controllers and heating controllers in that user s office. If direct control of these power consuming elements is not desirable the information from the present method may be provided as input into a generic energy management system. For example the generic energy management system may proactively adjust the climate control or heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC of the office depending on the number of users currently working in the office.

An implementation of PMU may be described in the general context of processor executable instructions such as event modules executed by one or more computers or other devices or processors. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

An implementation of the PMU may be stored on some form of processor storage media. Processor storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a processor including volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as processor readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Processor storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

Although the one or more above described implementations have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological steps it is to be understood that other implementations may be practiced without the specific features or steps described. Rather the specific features and steps are disclosed as preferred forms of one or more implementations.

