---

title: Display of taxi route control point information
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable media described herein provide for the display of taxi route control point information in conjunction with an alphanumeric taxi route display in an aircraft. Taxi route data is received and compared with airport map information to determine any taxi route control points along the taxi route. Information associated with the taxi route control points is then collected and displayed on a display unit of the aircraft in conjunction with an alphanumeric display of the taxi route. The information associated with the taxi route control points may include ATC clearance information, runway and taxiway status information, runway orientation information, runway and taxiway traffic information, or taxi route information such as distance remaining to the taxi route control point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386167&OS=08386167&RS=08386167
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08386167
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
While taxiing an aircraft along the taxiways of a large busy airport flight crew awareness of information about runways that cross the aircraft s taxi route may mitigate reduce or prevent runway incursions and accidents. This information includes the location in the taxi route identity and orientation of the crossing runways runway status e.g. in use occupied or not occupied by other traffic active closed etc. and whether or not the aircraft is cleared to cross the runway by air traffic control ATC . Additionally such information regarding other taxi route control points during taxi takeoff and landing is also of operational value. These taxi route control points may include takeoff departure and landing arrival runways runway taxi segments crossing taxiways crossing roadways land and hold short operations LAHSO runway points taxiway hold points and ramp hold points.

Aircraft crews currently have access to airport maps either paper based maps or electronic airport moving maps stored in an aircraft system. These maps depict the various labeled runways and taxiways and other features of the airport. However these maps do not provide dynamic real time information about runways in or that cross the aircraft taxi route. Rather the crew receives runway information by reviewing notices to airmen NOTAM by monitoring automated broadcasts such as automatic terminal information service ATIS broadcasts or by monitoring ATC and other aircraft radio communications. Moreover the traditional method of communicating ATC taxiway and runway clearances to aircraft crew is by ATC radio or light gun communication. There is currently no cockpit display of the ATC clearance information. The lack of rapid visual access to crossing taxi departure and arrival runway information in the aircraft cockpit increases crew workload and reduces crew situational awareness.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Methods systems and computer readable media described herein provide for the display of taxi route control point information in conjunction with an alphanumeric taxi route display in an aircraft. According to aspects presented herein taxi route data is entered received or otherwise derived and compared with airport map information to determine any runways that cross the taxi route as well as other taxi route control points along the taxi route. Information associated with the crossing runways and other taxi route control points is then collected and displayed on a display unit of the aircraft in conjunction with an alphanumeric display of the taxi route. The information associated with the crossing runways and other taxi route control points may include ATC clearance information runway and taxiway status information runway orientation information runway and taxiway traffic information or taxi route information such as distance remaining to the taxi route control point.

The features functions and advantages discussed herein can be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

The following detailed description is directed to methods systems and computer readable media for displaying taxi route control point information in conjunction with an alphanumeric taxi route display in an aircraft. Utilizing the concepts and technologies described herein aircraft crews may have readily available visual access to crossing runway and other taxi route control point information while taxiing the aircraft including ATC clearance information runway and taxiway status information runway orientation information runway and taxiway traffic information or taxi route information such as distance remaining to the taxi route control point. The availability of this information in the aircraft cockpit improves crew situational awareness and decreases the potential for runway incursion and traffic collision hazards. These and other advantages and features will become apparent from the description of the various embodiments below.

Throughout this disclosure embodiments are described with respect to an aircraft and the operation of an aircraft at an airport. An aircraft provides a useful example for embodiments described herein since it likely represents the majority of vehicles operating on the taxiways of an airport. However it should be understood that the concepts presented herein are equally applicable to ground vehicles operating on the taxiways runways and roadways of an airport including but not limited to aircraft tow tractors emergency response vehicles aircraft service vehicles and airport maintenance vehicles.

Further while portions of this disclosure describe information regarding runways that cross a taxi route it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the processing and displaying of crossing runway information shown in the figures and described herein may be applied to any taxi route control point that may occur along the taxi route or during taxi takeoff and landing. Such taxi route control points may include but are not limited to crossing runways takeoff departure and landing arrival runways runway taxi segments land and hold short operations LAHSO runway points crossing taxiways taxiway hold points ramp hold points and roadway hold points.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. In referring to the drawings like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.

The crossing runway module receives taxi route data describing a taxi route for the aircraft. The taxi route data may consist of a list of the taxiways along which the aircraft should proceed to move from point A such as an airport gate to point B such as a departure runway. The taxi route data may be entered manually by the crew utilizing a data entry terminal in the cockpit of the aircraft such as a CDU. Alternatively the taxi route data may be retrieved from previously stored taxi routes contained in a database unit of the FMS or it may be received from air traffic control over a wireless ATC datalink established between the aircraft and ATC. In one embodiment the taxi route data represents the currently active taxi route of the aircraft.

The crossing runway module utilizes a display unit to display the taxi route control point information in conjunction with an alphanumeric taxi route display of the taxi route data as will be described in more detail below. According to embodiments the display unit is located in the cockpit of the aircraft and may be an alphanumeric display such as a CDU or a graphical display such as a multi function display MFD found in a modern glass cockpit. Alternatively the display may be a laptop computer display an electronic flight bag display a handheld display or some other suitable display. In one embodiment the taxi route control point information is included with a printout of the taxi route produced by a printer located in the cockpit of the aircraft or in a remote location.

In another embodiment the taxi route control point information may be accompanied by an aural attention getter or redundant or complimentary aural information. The crossing runway module may provide the accompanying aural information through a speaker also located in the cockpit of the aircraft. The crossing runway module may also provide the taxi route control point information to other airplane systems and avionics of the aircraft.

In order to determine the runways that cross the current taxi route as well as other taxi route control points along the taxi route the crossing runway module utilizes the taxi route data and airport map information that contains an electronic database of the airport taxiways and runways. The airport map information may be stored in the database unit of the FMS which may further contain map information for a number of airports where the aircraft operates. The crossing runway module uses the airport map information and taxi route data to determine the identity location and orientation of runways taxiways and roadways that cross the current taxi route as well as other taxi route hold points as will be described in more detail below in regard to .

According to embodiments described herein the taxi route control point information displayed by the crossing runway module may include ATC clearance information runway and taxiway status information runway orientation information runway and taxiway traffic information or taxi route information such as distance remaining to the runway crossing or other taxi route control points. The crossing runway module may receive this information from a number of sources. For example the aircraft crew may provide the information to the crossing runway module and the aircraft systems via manual crew input provided at a CDU or other data terminal operatively connected to the aircraft system containing the crossing runway module . In addition a wireless ATC datalink may be established between the aircraft and air traffic control allowing automatic flow of data regarding ATC clearance runway and taxiway status traffic ATIS information and NOTAM information to the aircraft. The crossing runway module may also utilize airplane systems avionics and ownship information as well as aircraft and vehicle traffic information received from other aircraft and vehicles to display the taxi route control point information as will be described in more detail below in regard to .

According to embodiments described herein the alphanumeric taxi route display further displays crossing runway information A for the runways that the aircraft will cross as it progresses along the taxi route . In one embodiment crossing runway information A includes an identifier of the crossing runway such as 04L 22R. The crossing runway information A may be displayed only for the next or pending runway crossing as shown in or the crossing runway information may be displayed for all crossing runways along the taxi route as shown in . Alternatively the crossing runway information may be displayed for a subset of crossing runways along the taxi route . The crossing runway information A C may be embedded in the alphanumeric taxi route display as additional boxes in the taxi route sequence as further shown in or it may be displayed above below or beside the alphanumeric taxi route display . In addition the runway crossing information A C be displayed in some other portion of the display unit on which the alphanumeric taxi route display is displayed or it may be displayed on a separate alphanumeric or graphical display unit of the aircraft. Crossing runway information may be displayed in text color shape or symbolic form as will be described further below.

Along with the identifier of the crossing runway the crossing runway information A further shows ATC clearance information A for the corresponding crossing runway according to another embodiment. The ATC clearance information A may be included in the crossing runway information A only for pending runway crossings as shown in or ATC clearance information may be included in the crossing runway information for all crossing runways displayed in the alphanumeric taxi route display as shown in . Alternatively the ATC clearance information may be displayed for a subset of crossing runways in the alphanumeric taxi route display . ATC clearance information D may also be displayed for other runways along the taxi route such as the TIPH taxi into position and hold displayed for the departure runway 14L further illustrated in .

The ATC clearance information A C may be explicitly stated for the crossing runway clearance condition for example HOLD CLEAR STOP CROSS etc. Alternatively only HOLD STOP or other critical ATC clearance information A C may be displayed making CLEARed to enter runway and cleared to CROSS conditions implicit in the absence of the ATC clearance information. According to one embodiment the display of the ATC clearance information A C is altered by changing color attributes or otherwise enhancing the display to attract crew attention to a pending or critical condition. For example as shown in the ATC clearance information A of HOLD may be made to flash as the aircraft approaches the clearance point for crossing runway 04L 22R. The enhancing of the ATC clearance information A for a pending or critical condition may be coupled with other visible indicators or aural tones or voices in the aircraft cockpit as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In a further embodiment the ATC clearance information A C is displayed as symbols indicating the runway clearance condition of the corresponding crossing runways. For example a depiction of hold short lines A may be displayed for a HOLD condition a or symbol B displayed for a CLEAR or CROSS condition and a stop sign symbol C displayed for a STOP condition as shown in . It will be appreciated that many other methods of color shape or aural coding of the display of ATC clearance information A C in the crossing runway information A C may be imagined by one skilled in the art and it is intended that this application include all such methods of coding the display of ATC clearance information.

According to another embodiment the crossing runway information A C also contains runway status information A C for the corresponding crossing runway as further shown in . As in the case of the ATC clearance information A C the runway status information A C may be included in the crossing runway information A C only for pending runway crossings for all crossing runways or for a subset of crossing runways displayed in the alphanumeric taxi route display . The runway status information A C may explicitly state the real time status of the corresponding runway such as IN USE OCCUPIED or UNOCCUPIED or only critical runway status information such as IN USE or OCCUPIED may be displayed making non critical statuses implicit in the absence of the runway status information. Alternatively the runway status information A C may provide overall status of the corresponding runway such as USABLE UNUSABLE RESTRICTED CLOSED etc.

Alternatively the runway status information A C may be symbolically indicated in the alphanumeric taxi route display as shown in . For example a bold solid blue border A may be displayed around the box in the alphanumeric taxi route display containing the crossing runway information A for a runway IN USE. Similarly a dashed blue border B may be displayed for a runway that is OCCUPIED and a normal thin border C may be displayed for runway that is UNOCCUPIED. Alternatively an UNUSABLE RESTRICTED or CLOSED runway may be symbolically indicated by an X drawn through the box containing the crossing runway information.

In one embodiment the display of the runway status information A C may be altered to indicate a pending critical condition. For example the runway status information A of IN USE may be made to flash as the aircraft approaches the crossing runway 04L 22R while progressing along the taxi route . It will be appreciated that many additional methods for displaying the runway status information A C in the crossing runway information A C may be imagined including but not limited to coding the status information by shape color utilizing symbols for the various statuses or accompanying critical status information with additional cockpit visual indicators or aural tones or voices. It is intended that this application include all such methods for displaying the runway status information A C.

In another embodiment the crossing runway information A C included in the alphanumeric taxi route display on the CDU screen also includes the ATC clearance information A and or runway status information A for the corresponding runway as shown in . The ATC clearance information A or runway status information A may be included in the crossing runway information A C only for pending runway crossings as shown in for all crossing runways or a subset of crossing runways displayed in the alphanumeric taxi route display . It will be appreciated that the ATC clearance information A and runway status information A may be further coded by color shape attributes or other visual indicator or aural tone or voice to indicate the pending or critical nature of the information as discussed in detail above in regard to .

As further shown in the distance remaining from the present position of the aircraft to the next segment within the taxi route may also be displayed. When displayed in conjunction with a crossing runway the distance remaining may indicate the distance remaining from the present position of the aircraft to the runway crossing. The distance remaining for the current leg and next crossing runway may be dynamically calculated and displayed as the aircraft proceeds along the taxi route. In one embodiment the current leg of the taxi route is highlighted and is removed from the display when it is completed. In another embodiment the next crossing runway along the current leg is highlighted as the aircraft approaches the runway along the taxi route and is further removed once the aircraft has crossed the runway.

In a further embodiment the crossing runway information A C included in the alphanumeric taxi route display on the CDU screen also includes the ATC clearance information A C and or runway status information A C for the corresponding runway as shown in . It will be appreciated that the ATC clearance information A C or runway status information A C may be further coded by color shape attributes or other visual indicator or aural tone or voice to indicate the pending or critical nature of the information as discussed in detail above in regard to and further shown in .

The method begins at operation where the crossing runway module receives the taxi route data related to the taxi route for which to display the crossing runway information A C. As discussed above in regard to the taxi route data may be entered manually by the crew utilizing a CDU or other data entry terminal in the cockpit of the aircraft. Alternatively the taxi route data may be retrieved from previously stored taxi routes contained in an aircraft database or it may be received over the ATC datalink established between the aircraft and air traffic control.

From operation the method continues to operation where the crossing runway module utilizes the taxi route data and airport map information retrieved for the corresponding airport to determine the runways that cross the taxi route . As discussed above in regard to the airport map information may contain the taxiways and runways of the airport encoded in an electronic format including all taxiway and runway junction points. The crossing runway module may utilize a method to parse the taxi route data and apply the junction point data from the airport map information to determine the junction points A C between runways at the airport and the taxiways in the taxi route represented in the taxi route data.

This operation may be performed independently by the crossing runway module or may be performed by the FMS or some other aircraft host system as part of an overall taxi route parsing routine. The method utilized to parse the taxi route data and apply the airport map information may be similar to that described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 133 114 entitled System and Method for Taxi Route Entry Parsing which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. It will be appreciated however that any number of methods or processes known in the art may be utilized by the crossing runway module to determine the crossing runways from the taxi route data and the airport map information .

Next the method proceeds from operation to operation where the crossing runway module displays the crossing runway information A C in conjunction with the alphanumeric taxi route display on the display unit in accordance with the embodiments described above in regard to . The crossing runway module may display the crossing runway information A C on a CDU or on an MFD in the cockpit of the aircraft as described above. The crossing runway module may further display the crossing runway information A C on any display device inside or outside of the aircraft where the taxi route data and airport map information are available to generate the list of crossing runways.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the crossing runway module determines if ATC clearance information A C and or runway status information A C is to be displayed with the crossing runway information A C. The information to be displayed with the crossing runway information A C may depend on a number of factors including but not limited to whether the taxi route is currently active the runway status the ATC clearance and whether the aircraft is approaching the junction point A C of one of the crossing runways as it progresses along the taxi route as described above in regard to . The crossing runway module may utilize the airplane systems avionics and ownship information and the airport map information to determine whether the aircraft is taxing and its position along the taxi route .

If the taxi route is active then the method proceeds to operation where the crossing runway module receives the ATC clearance information A C for the crossing runways along the taxi route . The ATC clearance information A C may be manually entered by the crew on the CDU after receiving clearance from ATC via radio for example or the ATC clearance information may be received automatically via the ATC datalink established between the aircraft and air traffic control.

In one embodiment the ATC clearance information A C may be determined based on a predefined rule or rules. The predefined rules may be contained in the airport map information received over the ATC datalink entered manually by the crew or obtained through some other data source. For example an airport may have a rule that all aircraft approaching a runway crossing must hold until cleared to cross by the ATC. The rule may apply to all runways selected runways or only active runways. In this case the ATC clearance runway information A C displayed for the crossing runways will be HOLD until contrary ATC clearance information for each crossing runway is received.

The method then proceeds from operation to operation where the crossing runway module receives the runway status information A C for the crossing runways along the taxi route . As is the case with the ATC clearance information the runway status information A C may be manually entered by the crew on the CDU after monitoring radio communications or the ATIS broadcast for the airport received automatically via the ATC datalink or based upon a predefined rule or rules for the airport and or crossing runway.

In an alternative embodiment the crossing runway module determines the status of crossing runways by utilizing aircraft and vehicle traffic information received from other aircraft operating in the vicinity of the airport. The crossing runway module may obtain the aircraft and vehicle traffic information from the automatic dependent surveillance broadcast ADS B system which allows aircraft to periodically broadcast their position speed and direction along with other relevant information to other aircraft operating in the vicinity. Alternatively the aircraft and vehicle traffic information may be obtained from the ATC datalink the traffic collision and avoidance system TCAS or some other on board aircraft systems that provide traffic information.

The crossing runway module may couple the position speed and direction information from the aircraft and vehicle traffic information with the airport map information to determine if any nearby aircraft are operating on the crossing runways along the taxi route and resolve the status of the crossing runways based upon this determination. For example the crossing runway module may determine the status of a crossing runway to be IN USE if an aircraft is operating on the crossing runway at a speed exceeding 50 knots OCCUPIED if an aircraft is operating on the crossing runaway at a speed of 50 knots or less and UNOCCUPIED if no aircraft is operating on the crossing runway.

From operation the method returns to operation where the crossing runway module updates the crossing runway information A C displayed on the display unit . This may involve adding or removing ATC clearance information A C and or runway status information A C removing the crossing runway information A C once the corresponding runway has been crossed or changing the color shape or other attributes of the displayed information to reflect the current status and ATC clearance of the corresponding crossing runways as described in detail above in regard to . The method will continue to receive the latest ATC clearance information A C and or runway status information A C and update the display of the crossing runway information A C as long as the taxi route remains active. If at operation the taxi route is determined to no longer be active the method ends.

The computer architecture shown in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . The computer also includes a mass storage device for storing an operating or control system such as the FMS specific application modules and other program modules which are described in greater detail herein.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to other aircraft systems and remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse electronic stylus or touchscreen such as may be present on a connected CDU or other terminal device in the aircraft. Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display unit a printer or other type of output device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including a flight management system suitable for controlling the operation of a flight management computer. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store the crossing runway module which was described in detail above in regard to . The mass storage device and the RAM may also store other types of program modules or data.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for displaying crossing runway and other taxi route control point information in conjunction with an alphanumeric taxi route display in an aircraft are provided herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

