---

title: Adaptive and user location-based power saving system
abstract: An adaptive, user-centric system and network for controlling power consumption by an appliance is described. The appliance may be any type of powered apparatus, such as A/C units, heaters, computers, lights, kitchen appliances, home media centers, and so on. The power to these appliances is based on an estimated arrival time of the user to the destination where the appliance is located. It may also be based on previous performance data for the particular appliance, that is, given the current conditions (e.g., various environment temperature readings), how long has it taken in the past for the appliance to reach a certain level of operation. The location of the user is determined by a device that has some location-based services and is able to transmit this location/position data in a message to a power-control server. The server applies rules contained in the message to derive an estimated arrival time for the user which is used to power appliances at the user's destination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08306634&OS=08306634&RS=08306634
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08306634
owner_city: Suwon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081223
---
The present invention relates to computer networks and power saving systems. More specifically it relates to remote power control of devices and appliances using location based data.

With the cost of power increasing every year consumers are becoming more sophisticated with regard to controlling power to devices and appliances in their home workplace and other environments. For example consumers often use timers and sensors for controlling when to supply power to appliances. However present power saving systems are inefficient at managing power to device and appliances. Motion based sensors often rely on a pre defined range or direct contact with the sensor. Time based systems are not sufficiently flexible they simply turn devices on or off based on time which may vary by day. Sensor based power solutions such as thermal sensors often rely on direct contact with physical bodies i.e. with a human being or ambient objects which may be unsuitable in situations where a user would like an appliance to be powered on at a certain time that is coordinated with the user s arrival time.

Moreover consumer power preferences or power profiles are not portable. They are often tied to a particular location. Users who often like to have their power consumption preferences that is preferences as to when they would like their devices powered on or off travel with them or be portable. Furthermore existing sensors control power to devices based on times and days set in a schedule that may change based on real life events where a user might use a device not when the user actually needs the device. Time based systems simply follow a set schedule and control power to devices regardless of whether the consumer is there to use the device. As noted other sensor based power control systems rely solely on user presence or an ambient condition and thus are not suitable for devices or appliances that are preferably powered on a certain time before the consumer is ready to use them whether that time be one hour such as with air conditioning units heaters etc. or a few minutes file servers media center PCs and the like .

A user centric system and network for controlling power consumption by an appliance is described. The appliance may be any type of powered apparatus such as A C units heaters computers lights kitchen appliances home media centers and so on. The power to these appliances may be based on an estimated arrival time of the user to the destination where the appliance is located. It may also be based on previous performance data for the particular appliance that is given the current conditions e.g. various environment temperature readings the length of time it has taken in the past for the appliance to reach a certain level of operation may be considered. The current conditions may be determined from sensor data from a network or one sensor such as thermal noise motion or light sensitive sensors. The location of the user is determined by a device that has some location based services and is able to transmit this location position data in a message to a power control server. The server retrieves a power saving profile based on data in the message and applies rules contained in the message to derive an estimated arrival time for the user which is used to determine when to power one or more appliances at the user s destination. In this manner the appliance is turned on at a time that allows the user full benefit from operation of the appliance upon arrival and without wasting any power that is without turning the appliance on too soon.

One embodiment is a method of controlling the operation of a power consuming appliance. A location message from a power control enabled device is received. This message may contain information on the location and position of a user carrying a device wherein the device is capable of providing this user centric location information and may be referred to as a power control enabled device. The message may also contain information on the power control enabled device itself. Once received a power saving profile using device data in the location message is retrieved. Location data contained in the message is used to control operation of the power consuming appliance such that the timing of the appliance operation e.g. turning it on or off or adjusting its level of output is determined based on the user location indicated in the location message and may be based on other factors as well such as previous performance or historical data. Controlling operation of the appliance may involve executing power related rules. In another embodiment sensor data is received from one or more sensors.

Another embodiment is a system or apparatus for controlling operation of an appliance. The system includes a processor a network interface for receiving a location and a power supply component interface for transmitting instructions to one or more power supply components which are plugged into power outlets and supply power to appliances . Also included is a power control module having a location message parsing component for parsing the location message. A memory stores at least one power operation rule associated with the appliance and at least one power saving profile. The power related profile may contain appliance data sensor component data and rules data. A system as recited in claim B wherein the power control module calculates a wait time period relating to a time the power control module sends an operation control instruction to the appliance wherein the calculation is based on data in the location message. In another embodiment the system memory also stores previous power related performance data relating to the appliance receiving power form the one or more power supply components. In another embodiment the wait time period calculation may be based on the previous performance data and on sensor data.

Another embodiment is a network for controlling operation of a power consuming appliance. The network includes at least one device such as a mobile phone having a power related module or a dedicated power related device a power controller component having a power saving profile and a power supply logic component. Also included is a power supply component for regulating operation of the power consuming appliance.

Methods and systems for controlling power supplied to appliances based on user location and using user power saving profiles are described in the various figures. Location based sensors are preferred. Such sensors provide power to devices based on the location of the consumer for example how far the consumer is from her home or office determines when devices will be powered on. Such power saving control systems need to be adaptive to a consumer s actual activities and actions.

Both devices and are Internet enabled devices and can communicate data to Internet . With dedicated device the user does not have to download or install software or firmware as would be necessary with device . In yet another embodiment a dedicated device similar to device but smaller and having attachment or coupling means may be attachable to a cell phone computer laptop etc. thereby making the device power control enabled it may also be easily detachable . In either case device or may use triangulation GPS services or other less expensive or complex location based services LBSs to provide location data. As described below the purpose of the LBS is to provide the location of the user and relay the information.

Power control software firmware component in device and dedicated device tracks the location of the person carrying the device. Component and device may also communicate the location data which may include direction data and other information to a network component referred to as an adaptive power controller component described below. This data informs the network component of the location of the user carrying the power control device devices or . Power control software or firmware component or power control dedicated device has the IP addresses of the adaptive power controller component that receives the location data.

The other portion of overview network may be characterized as the receiving end and is essentially another network . One component in network is a gateway component or firewall. Network may not have such a component but a gateway or firewall may be desirable to maintain security within network . For example many home networks may have a firewall protecting it from viruses and malware whereas larger entities may have a gateway. Various embodiments of the present invention may operate without gateway device . Connected to gateway is adaptive power controller component described in . In one embodiment power controller may be a server program within an existing server computer in network or may be a stand alone device. It may also be embedded in a router device a TV e.g. in a set top box or in any Internet connected device. For example if network is a home network power controller may be embedded in the home network server. In one embodiment power controller is purchased or licensed from a provider offering the adaptive power controller power saving system of the present invention. Another embodiment is described in where an adaptive power control tracking service Web server is utilized.

Power controller is connected to one or more appliances and via a receiver adaptor or power adaptor. The connection to the receiver adaptor may be wired or wireless. The term appliance is used to describe any device apparatus component or appliance which needs electrical power to operate and for which the consumer wants to control power supply in order to conserve power lengthen the life of the appliance or to have operational in time for the user. The range of appliances varies widely and may depend on the context. For example in a home environment an appliance may range from a coffee brewer to a central air conditioning unit such as appliance . Other examples include home network and media server appliance kitchen appliances lights heating systems computers and so on. In an office environment examples may include lights air conditioning server computers and the like.

As noted power controller is connected to appliances via power adaptors. It has a wired or wireless connection with a power adaptor such as the X 10 power adaptors and or adaptive appliance adaptors and will receive and execute commands from power controller . The wired connections may be via Ethernet or serial and wireless connections may be via Bluetooth RF or Wi fi. These units are connected to the appliances and supply power to them. They may be low cost power adaptors that connect an appliance to a power source and switch power on or off based commands from power controller . As shown power adaptors receive A C power i.e. they are plugged into normal power outlets . As described below instructions to power appliances to on or off are received by the power adaptors from power controller . Appliance adaptors and may be more sophisticated power adaptor units compared to the X 10 units that allow for more fine tuning with respect to controlling power and settings of the appliances. They may communicate via Bluetooth Ethernet or WiFi with power controller . For example they may allow for greater specificity when controlling the temperature of an A C unit heater or a kitchen appliance e.g. oven . The X 10 power adaptor is a commercially available unit that can turn an appliance on or off wirelessly using RF frequency.

Adaptive power controller may receive input from one or more sensors. If there is more than one sensor the one or more sensors may be referred to as a sensor network . The sensors may be conventional sensors including sensors for detecting motion temperature changes sound vibration and light. For each of these types of sensors there may be numerous models and makes that vary for example in sensitivity range power consumption and the like. There may be other types of sensors not listed that may also be part of sensor network . The various embodiments described herein do not focus on the specific types of sensors but rather on that the data coming from these sensors which is input to adaptive power controller which may use the data to determine how to control appliances to . As is known in the art sensors in network may be spread out in the relevant environment e.g. home office building public facility business place or store . Temperature sensors may be placed outside and inside a home or office building as with motion sensors and sound sensors. In short sensors may be placed or installed wherever the consumer believes they would be most effective and according to the instructions and guidelines of the sensor manufacturer . It is worth noting that adaptive power controller may receive input data from sensor network and from gateway via Internet . In other embodiments there may not be any sensor data or sensor network . The operations of the adaptive power controller may be based only on location data as described below. Some appliances may not be dependent on or have rules that involve sensor data but are only dependent on user location data estimated arrival time and other data. Examples of such devices may be computers home theaters kitchen oven and the like.

At step the mobile device transmits a message to power controller via Internet . The location message contains position or location data of the device and may also include directional and other data. The device may use any suitable LBS to determine its location such as triangulation GPS and others. The location data may include longitude and latitude data. In one embodiment the message is sent using the REST protocol and API via HTTP or HTTPS. As is known in the field REST is a commonly used protocol and API for transmitting messages requesting Web services on the Internet such as requesting the use of a Web search engine the search request is in a REST formatted message . The message transmitted by the device contains accurate location position and or directional data of the device and therefore of the consumer . The transmission frequency of this message may depend on the size and power capabilities of the device. If the device is small and has limited battery power like many cell phones the message may not be sent very frequently in order to conserve battery power. The frequency and scheduling of when such location messages are sent may be one of the features used to pre configure the device prior to step . A dedicated adaptive power control enabled device such as device may draw power from a car battery for example and may send messages frequently. In another embodiment described below some of the calculations to determine an estimated arrival time that may normally be performed on adaptive power controller may instead be done on the device itself thereby easing the processing load of controller .

At step power controller having its own IP address receives a location message. The message may pass through gateway component or firewall before reaching power controller. At step the location message is parsed by the power controller. In addition to containing position data the primary data component in the message in one embodiment it also contains various other data types stored in various fields. These may include device ID which is an identifier of the power control device and an appliance identifier discussed below. Before step or during this step the power controller may use the device ID data to verify that the message is being sent from a legitimate or authorized device. For example the device should belong for example to a consumer a member of a family in a home environment or an employee consumer if in an office environment . The device ID may correspond to a particular consumer a parent or a child in a family or group. Other data fields may include arrival time and duration. An example of a location message using the REST API is 

At step the power controller retrieves one or more power saving profiles based on the device ID. A sample power saving profile which contain condition based rules used to determine when to supply power to an appliance is provided below. Power controller described in may have a repository of power profiles that are indexed or searchable based on device ID or user consumer ID. Once the profile or profiles are retrieved at step at step the power controller determines whether there is more than one profile. A specific device ID such as for example the dedicated power control device in the family car may have three or four power profiles associated with it whereas the device ID from a cell phone for a teenager in the family may have only one profile associated with it. If there is only one profile retrieved control goes to step . If there is more than one profile control goes to step where the power controller determines the priority of the profiles and places them in a specific order. In one embodiment a profile may have either a global scope or an individual scope. In other embodiments there may be more scopes. The priorities of the profiles may depend on the priority of the user e.g. a parent may have a higher priority than a child . Once the priorities and the order of the profiles are determined at step control goes to step . The processes beginning at step are done for each profile if there is more than one. In one embodiment a user may have multiple profiles.

At step the profile is read and the relevant appliances are identified. A sample profile is provided below 

Each power saving profile contains information on how to control at least one appliance. It may contain instructions on how to control numerous appliances. At step each appliance e.g. computer A C unit kitchen appliance etc. is identified and listed. At step for each appliance relevant rules are examined. Each appliance may have at least one rule which dictates when the appliance should be turned on or off using at least one metric e.g. temperature amount of daylight and the like . An example of a rule is if indoor temperature is less than 69 degrees increase heat or if outdoor daylight is less than 86 lumens turn on outdoor lights or if there is motion in a hallway and it is after 7 pm turn on indoor lights. Each rule may have at least one or more conditions associated with it. At step the one or more conditions are examined for each rule. Thus using the above examples the condition for the first rule may be indoor temperature for the second rule outdoor daylight and for the third motion in hallway and time of day.

At step power controller receives data from the sensor network or from one sensor. The sensor data it receives is relevant to the condition. For example for the first rule and the one condition associated with the rule the sensor data is indoor temperature data from indoor temperature sensors i.e. thermometers . If the rule being examined is the second rule if outdoor daylight is less than 86 lumens turn on outdoor lights the sensor data received may be light data from outdoor light sensors. In other embodiments power controller may not receive nay sensor data.

At step power controller retrieves data that may be referred to as previous performance data or historical data stored in its own repositories. This data corresponds to the specific appliance and how that appliance has responded to power commands in the past. This data may be more applicable to appliances where there is some type of incremental adjustment necessary rather than to an appliance that has a strict binary operation on off and has an effect that occurs immediately upon powering on e.g. turning on a light . One example of previous performance data may relate to air conditioning cooling or heating of an environment and may provide indications of how the appliance e.g. central A C unit performs under various conditions. For example the historical data may indicate that in the past it took 10 minutes for the A C unit to cool the environment e.g. a living room from 75 degrees to 70 degrees when the unit was turned on to maximum COOL level. This data may also include the other temperature at the time. Similarly the previous performance data may indicate that a heating unit took 13 minutes to heat an office floor from 64 degrees to 70 degrees. In another example relating to an office server computer previous performance data may indicate that it took 2.5 minutes to boot up. Other examples may include simple kitchen appliances such as the time it takes to pre heat an oven or start a kitchen appliance. This previous performance data may be taken into consideration by the power controller in determining at what time to supply or adjust power to an appliance with respect to the user s estimated arrival time.

At step the power controller performs a power related action based on the data and rules described above and on the data received in the location messages. The location data provides an estimated amount of time before a user reaches a destination i.e. an estimated arrival time. It also provides data on whether the user has made a detour has stopped somewhere is in traffic and may be delayed or other factors that may affect the amount of time before the user reaches the destination i.e. location of the appliance . The action by power controller taken may be to transmit a signal to the power unit X 10 or appliance adaptor to either turn on or off an appliance or adjust the controls of an appliance e.g. increase or decrease the brightness of a light turn up or down a heater or increase cooling from an A C unit and so on . That is fine tune the appliance rather than simply turning it on or off. As noted the appliance adaptor unit e.g. units and in is well suited for doing this type of adjustment of appliances whereas the X 10 module capabilities may be limited to turning appliances on or off such as computers lights and so on .

At step after the appliance has either been turned on or off or adjusted in some manner performance data relating to the amount of time it took the appliance to reach the intended goal gives the specific power related action is recorded and stored assuming such data is available in the particular context. This previous performance data is specific to a particular appliance and thus may be dependent on the model year wear and tear technical specifications etc. of the appliance. The variety of contexts where such data would be available that is would make sense to collect and store are described above. For example previous performance data may not be collected for turning lights on or off. However data may be collected and stored for most temperature related power actions cooling or heating an environment .

At step the power controller checks to see if there are more rules associated with the selected appliance. If there are more rules control returns to step examine conditions for next rule where the process repeats from step to step . If there are no more rules for the appliance control goes to step where the power controller checks to see if there are more appliances in the profile. Recall that in step all the relevant appliances for each profile were identified. If there are more appliances control goes to step where the one or more rules for the appliance are examined and the process repeats for the appliance i.e. rules for the appliance are examined and the process is repeated for each rule and so on . If there are no more appliances the process for one profile is complete. At step the message received from the device is parsed and the number of profiles associated with the message is identified and retrieved. If there is only one profile the process is complete after step . If there are more profiles the process returns to step where the relevant appliances for the selected profile are identified. The process may then continue until all profiles are examined and power related actions have been taken by the power controller at step . It is worth noting that in some cases no power related actions may be taken based on the outcome of the rules sensor data and or location data relevant time frames .

At step the power controller examines the previous performance or historical data relating to the specific appliance to get a better estimate of when the controller should start power to the appliance and at what level if applicable . The previous performance data may provide some guidance to the power controller as to how the appliance reacts or behaves under specific circumstances such as the amount of time it takes the appliance to begin operating effectively if the outside temperature is below freezing or how long does the appliance take to turn on and be operational if other related appliances are turned off and so on. This added intelligence may allow the power controller to make a better estimate of when to turn on or turn off the appliance. As noted for certain appliances there may be no previous performance data stored or needed such as for simple or less complex appliances.

At step the power controller examines the estimated arrival time of the user to reach the destination such as a home office vacation home and the like. At this stage the power controller takes into consideration the time aspect of the calculation. As noted above the power controller enables efficient use of power in turning appliances on or off so that little energy is wasted and so that the appliance is operational or has performed its operation at the time needed by the user. An important part of this calculation is determining the amount of time before the user reaches the destination. The power control enabled or dedicated device devices and provides position location data to the power controller. It may also provide directional data and vehicle speed if travelling in a car train and so on . The power controller may know that if the user is at location B which is 10 miles from the user s destination A it will take the user seven minutes to reach destination A assuming there is no traffic or detours. The controller uses this arrival time estimate to determine when to turn on or adjust power to the appliance. If the next message indicates that the user has made a stop the new time estimate is used this estimate may be something like arrival time unknown or undetermined . As noted the more frequently the device transmits messages to the power controller the more accurately the controller can determine an arrival time. At step the power controller executes the specific rule for the appliance taking into consideration all the data from the previous steps. In the described embodiment the time when action is taken on an appliance is based in part on the arrival time along with other factors. The action may be to do nothing and wait to receive the next message.

The message may be sent to the tracking service Web server and stored. Thus in this embodiment devices and need to know the IP address of tracking server . It may also know the IP address of the power controller itself as in the embodiment above in the event there is a malfunction with tracking server . Power controller at the home office or other location periodically checks tracking server for any updated position messages from devices it has registered. Power controller has the IP address of tracking server and may use a REST based message such 

In other embodiments other protocols may be used to format the requests. The frequency of the position data update requests may depend on the how the user configures power controller . Requests to server may be sent as often as desired the more often updates from server are obtained the more accurate the time calculations may be . When tracking server receives the request it returns i.e. forwards the position data message it receives from devices to power controller . Once power controller receives the position message the process is the same as the processes described above in .

In one embodiment a user is able to install her power saving profiles onto other power controllers at other locations. A user may be able to remove or copy power saving preference profiles onto a storage medium such as a USB key or CD ROM or have them stored on a server on the Internet and use them on other power controllers. The user s power profiles are portable and can travel with the user. They are also easily configurable and may be changed to meet the needs of the user as needs change. Additional profiles may also be added or deleted as needed. In this manner the user can conserve power and general wear and tear on the appliances wherever she goes. In another embodiment the user s power profiles may be exported from the user s primary power controller to another power controller upon request by the user. The other power controller for example may be at a vacation home a hotel a new user residence another office and so on. For example if the user reserves a hotel room online and that hotel has a power controller as described above the user may request that her power profile be sent to the hotel s power controller so it may be used to control the environment of the room before the user arrives and during her stay. In this manner the appliances used by the user that are present in the hotel will be powered on and off as they would at the user s home or office such as controlling air temperature water temperature and so on without the user having to manually carry the profile e.g. on a USB key to the hotel and installing it once she arrives there.

CPU is also coupled to a variety of input output devices such as display keyboard mouse and speakers . In general an input output device may be any of video displays track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styluses voice or handwriting recognizers biometrics readers or other computers. CPU optionally may be coupled to another computer or telecommunications network using network interface . With such a network interface it is contemplated that the CPU might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Furthermore method embodiments of the present invention may execute solely upon CPU or may execute over a network such as the Internet in conjunction with a remote CPU that shares a portion of the processing.

In addition embodiments of the present invention further relate to computer storage products with a computer readable medium that have computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer code include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter.

Although illustrative embodiments and applications of this invention are shown and described herein many variations and modifications are possible which remain within the concept scope and spirit of the invention and these variations would become clear to those of ordinary skill in the art after perusal of this application. Accordingly the embodiments described are illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

