---

title: Methods and apparatus for supporting short burst messages over wireless communication networks
abstract: In accordance with a method for supporting short burst messages over a wireless communication network, mobile-originated short burst messages may be sent using at least one of a message-based approach and a service flow-based approach. Also, mobile-terminated short burst messages may be received using at least one of the message-based approach and the service flow-based approach.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185140&OS=08185140&RS=08185140
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08185140
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081006
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and apparatus for supporting short burst messages over wireless communication networks.

As used herein the term mobile device refers to an electronic device that may be used for voice and or data communication over a wireless communication system network. The terms system and network may be used interchangeably herein. Examples of mobile devices include cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs handheld devices wireless modems laptop computers personal computers etc. A mobile device may alternatively be referred to as a mobile station an access terminal a mobile terminal a subscriber station a remote station a user terminal a terminal a subscriber unit user equipment etc.

A wireless communication network may provide communication for a number of mobile devices each of which may be serviced by a base station. A base station may alternatively be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

A mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on the uplink and the downlink. The uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the mobile device to the base station and the downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base station to the mobile device.

The resources of a wireless communication network e.g. bandwidth and transmit power may be shared among multiple mobile devices. A variety of multiple access techniques are known including code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA and so forth.

Benefits may be realized by improved methods and apparatus related to the operation of wireless communication networks.

A method for a mobile device to support short burst messages is disclosed. The method may include determining whether mobile originated short burst messages should be sent using a message based approach or a service flow based approach and sending the mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach. The method may also include receiving mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A method for a base station to support short burst messages is disclosed. The method may include receiving mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of a message based approach and a service flow based approach. The method may also include forwarding mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A mobile device configured for supporting short burst messages is disclosed. The mobile device may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The mobile device may also include instructions stored in the memory. The instructions may be executable by the processor to determine whether mobile originated short burst messages should be sent using a message based approach or a service flow based approach and to send the mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach. The instructions may also be executable to receive mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A base station configured for supporting short burst messages is disclosed. The base station may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The base station may also include instructions stored in the memory. The instructions may be executable by the processor to receive mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of a message based approach and a service flow based approach. The instructions may also be executable to forward mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A mobile device configured for supporting short burst messages is disclosed. The mobile device may include means for determining whether mobile originated short burst messages should be sent using a message based approach or a service flow based approach and means for sending the mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach. The mobile device may also include means for receiving mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A base station configured for supporting short burst messages is disclosed. The base station may include means for receiving mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of a message based approach and a service flow based approach. The base station may also include means for forwarding mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A computer program product for facilitating support for short burst messages by a mobile device is disclosed. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions may include code for determining whether mobile originated short burst messages should be sent using a message based approach or a service flow based approach and code for sending the mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach. The instructions may also include code for receiving mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

A computer program product for facilitating support for short burst messages by a base station is disclosed. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions may include code for receiving mobile originated short burst messages using at least one of a message based approach and a service flow based approach. The instructions may also include code for forwarding mobile terminated short burst messages using at least one of the message based approach and the service flow based approach.

In certain embodiments each of the above described summaries can be configured for operation and or use in a wireless communication network that supports an Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard

The techniques described herein may be used for various communication systems such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA systems Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA systems Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA systems and so forth. An OFDMA system utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM which is a modulation technique that partitions the overall system bandwidth into multiple orthogonal sub carriers. These sub carriers may also be called tones bins etc. With OFDM each sub carrier may be independently modulated with data. An SC FDMA system may utilize interleaved FDMA IFDMA to transmit on sub carriers that are distributed across the system bandwidth localized FDMA LFDMA to transmit on a block of adjacent sub carriers or enhanced FDMA EFDMA to transmit on multiple blocks of adjacent sub carriers. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDMA.

Mobile devices are typically dispersed throughout the system . A mobile device may also be called and may contain some or all of the functionality of a mobile station a terminal an access terminal a user equipment a subscriber unit a station etc. A mobile device may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless device a wireless modem a handheld device a laptop computer etc. A mobile device may communicate with zero one or multiple base stations on the downlink DL and or uplink UL at any given moment. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base stations to the mobile devices and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the mobile devices to the base stations .

For a centralized architecture a system controller may couple to base stations and provide coordination and control for these base stations . The system controller may be a single network entity or a collection of network entities. For a distributed architecture base stations may communicate with one another as needed.

The present disclosure relates generally to data transmissions that occur in short bursts i.e. at intermittent intervals rather than in a continuous stream. Some examples of applications that typically transmit data in short bursts include Short Message Service SMS applications Instant Messaging IM applications Multimedia Messaging Service MMS applications Session Initiation Protocol SIP applications etc. These kinds of applications will be referred to herein as short burst applications. Messages that are sent by short burst applications will be referred to as short burst messages. Examples of short burst messages include SMS messages instant messages MMS messages SIP messages etc.

SMS is a communications protocol allowing the interchange of short text messages between mobile telephone devices. The SMS technology has facilitated the development and growth of text messaging. A significant number of mobile phone subscribers send and receive text messages on their phones. Many SMS messages are mobile to mobile text messages although the SMS standard supports other types of broadcast messaging as well.

IM is a form of real time communication between two or more people based on typed text. The text may be conveyed via computing devices that are connected over one or more networks such as the Internet. IM allows effective and efficient communication featuring immediate receipt of acknowledgment or reply. If IM is implemented in a mobile device it may be referred to as mobile IM.

MMS is a standard for telephone messaging systems that allows sending messages that include multimedia objects e.g. images audio video rich text and not just text as in SMS. Mobile devices with built in or attached cameras or with built in MP3 players may have an MMS messaging client i.e. a software program that interacts with the mobile subscriber to compose address send receive and view MMS messages.

SIP is a signaling protocol widely used for setting up and tearing down multimedia communication sessions such as voice and video calls over the Internet. Other feasible application examples include video conferencing streaming multimedia distribution instant messaging presence information and online games. SIP can be used for creating modifying and terminating two party unicast or multiparty multicast sessions consisting of one or several media streams.

The present disclosure proposes various techniques for supporting the transmission of short burst messages such as the types of messages just described over wireless communication networks. The techniques described herein may be implemented in WiMAX networks. The term WiMAX refers to a family of standards that is prepared by the Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 Working Group on Broadband Wireless Access Standards. Thus the term WiMAX network refers to a wireless communication network that is configured in accordance with one or more WiMAX standards. Current WiMAX standards do not indicate how short burst messages may be supported.

Two different approaches for supporting the transmission of short burst messages over wireless communication networks are described herein a message based approach and a service flow based approach.

The message based approach involves the use of media access control MAC messages for sending and receiving short burst messages. The present disclosure proposes that two new MAC messages be defined a short burst message request to send short burst messages and a short burst message indication to receive short burst messages.

Another approach described herein involves the use of a service flow with a quality of service QoS that is specifically defined for short burst messages. This type of service flow will be referred to as a short burst service flow.

Thus in accordance with the present disclosure short burst applications on mobile devices may send and receive short burst messages using the message based approach i.e. by sending short burst message requests and receiving short burst message indications and or using the service flow based approach i.e. by establishing one or more short burst service flows . Advantageously it can be transparent to the applications themselves whether the message based approach or the service flow based approach is used. Network software e.g. MAC software on the mobile device can determine which approach to use.

The mobile device also includes media access control MAC software . The MAC software may be configured to support the message based approach and the service flow based approach for sending and receiving short burst messages over the wireless communication network as described herein.

More specifically the MAC software may be configured to accept registration of mobile applications for sending and receiving short burst messages. The MAC software may also be configured to send mobile originated short burst messages i.e. short burst messages that originate with a mobile application on the mobile device over the wireless communication network . These messages may be sent using the message based approach and or the service flow based approach. The MAC software may also be configured to forward mobile terminated short burst messages i.e. short burst messages that are destined for a mobile application on the mobile device to the intended mobile applications .

The mobile device also includes a MAC software application programming interface API . The MAC software API may function as an interface between the MAC software and the mobile applications . Mobile applications may register with the MAC software via the MAC software API . Mobile originated short burst messages may be sent from the mobile applications to the MAC software via the MAC software API . Mobile terminated short burst messages may be forwarded from the MAC software to the intended applications via the MAC software API .

The mobile device may communicate with a base station within the network . The base station may be configured to support the message based approach and the service flow based approach for sending and receiving short burst messages over the wireless communication network as described herein.

The base station may be in electronic communication with one or more application proxy servers which may be in electronic communication with one or more application servers . Examples of application servers include a Short Message Service Center SMSC a Multimedia Messaging Service Center MMSC an Instant Messaging Center IMC a Session Initiation Protocol Center SIPC etc.

An interface between the base station and the application proxy servers may be provided and an interface between the application proxy servers and the application servers may also be provided. These interfaces may be configured to route mobile originated messages to the intended application servers and also to route server originated messages to the intended mobile devices .

If the message based approach described herein is used to send short burst messages then the mobile device and the base station may exchange short burst message requests and short burst message indications the two new MAC messages described herein . The base station and the application proxy servers may also exchange these messages. The application proxy servers and the application servers may also exchange these messages.

The wireless communication network may be a WiMAX network. In this case then the various components shown in e.g. the MAC software on the mobile device the base station etc. may be configured to support the features that are specified in WiMAX standards. Also if the network is a WiMAX network then examples of application proxy servers may include a WiMAX SMSC a WiMAX MMSC a WiMAX IMC a WiMAX SIPC etc.

In this example the message type is SMS and more particularly SMS SUBMIT. The address information includes an email address and a telephone number. The message body includes the phrase hello world which is the mobile originated short burst message that is being sent.

When the MAC software receives a mobile originated short burst message from an application the MAC software may determine whether the message based approach or the service flow based approach is used to send the mobile originated short burst message to its ultimate destination.

The rules to determine whether the message based approach or the service flow based approach is used may be as follows. If the mobile originated short burst message needs encryption for data privacy then the service flow based approach may be used. If the mobile originated short burst message includes a large amount of data then the service flow based approach may be used. If the mobile originated short burst message requires a short delivery delay and low overhead then the message based approach may be used.

The short burst message request may include various parameters such as the message type e.g. SMS IM MMS SIP etc. the message encoding type ASCII bitmap etc. the message size and the message body . The mobile originated short burst message may be included in the message body . The short burst message request may then be sent to a base station .

Additional information about a service flow in the context of a WiMAX network will now be provided. In a WiMAX network a service flow is a unidirectional flow of packets with a particular set of QoS parameters and is identified by a service flow identifier SFID . The QoS parameters could include traffic priority maximum sustained traffic rate maximum burst rate minimum tolerable rate scheduling type ARQ type maximum delay tolerated jitter service data unit type and size bandwidth request mechanism to be used transmission PDU formation rules etc. Service flows may be provisioned through a network management system or created dynamically through signaling mechanisms that are defined in WiMAX standards.

The different types of service flows that are presently defined for WiMAX networks include unsolicited grant services UGS service flows extended real time variable rate ERT VR service flows real time variable rate RT VR service flows non real time variable rate NRT VR service flows and best effort BE service flows. The UGS service flows ERT VR service flows RT VR service flows NRT VR service flows and BE service flows are currently defined in WiMAX standards.

The UGS service flows are designed to support fixed size data packets at a constant bit rate. Examples of applications that may use this service are T1 E1 emulation and voice over IP VoIP without silence suppression. The NRT VR service flows are designed to support real time applications such as VoIP with silence suppression that have variable data rates but require guaranteed data rate and delay. The RT VR service flows are designed to support real time service flows such as MPEG video that generate variable size data packets on a periodic basis. The NRT VR service flows are designed to support delay tolerant data streams such as FTP that require variable size data grants at a minimum guaranteed rate. The BE service flows are designed to support data streams such as Web browsing that do not require a minimum service level guarantee.

The service flow based approach can use the existing service flow type in WiMAX such as NRT VR Non Real Time Variable Rate if the delay of sending the short burst messages is not a concern. In this type of service flow the QoS parameters can include the Maximum Sustained Traffic Rate the Minimum Reserved Traffic Rate etc. If there is some concern about delay RT VR Real Time Variable Rate can be used in which the Maximum Latency and bandwidth parameters may be provided. The Maximum Latency may depend on the delay requirement for sending short burst messages . The Maximum Sustained Traffic Rate and the Minimum Reserved Traffic Rate are typically small values such as a few kilobits per second kbps .

The service flow based approach can also use a new type of service flow that is not currently defined in WiMAX standards. This new service flow type can be specifically for defining the QoS parameters for the short burst service flow described herein.

The MAC software on the mobile device may receive a short burst message indication from the base station . The short burst message indication may include parameters that are similar to the short burst message request described earlier including the message type the message encoding type the message size and the message body . The mobile terminated short burst message may be included in the message body .

Upon receiving the short burst message indication the MAC software may look up registration information to determine which mobile application should receive the mobile terminated short burst message . The registration information may include the information that is received from applications when they register with the MAC software including the callback information . The MAC software may then forward the mobile terminated short burst message to the appropriate application . The MAC software may send the mobile terminated short burst message to the application via the MAC software API although this is not shown in .

Encapsulation may be performed for either the message based approach or the service flow based approach. If the message based approach is used encapsulation may be performed to put the short burst message in the payload of the WiMAX MAC management message. If the service flow based approach is used encapsulation may be performed to put the short burst message in the payload of the IP packet as the payload of the WiMAX MAC PDU.

An SMS message is an example of a short burst message that may be encapsulated. The following are examples of different SMS message types 

Each of these types of SMS messages may be encapsulated by an encapsulation mechanism e.g. PDU bitmap text etc. as shown in .

The MAC software may accept registration of mobile applications for sending and receiving short burst messages . The mobile applications may be short burst applications such as an SMS client an IM client an MMS client an SIP client etc. As indicated above a mobile application may register with the MAC software by calling the registration function that is defined in the MAC software API .

The MAC software may receive mobile originated short burst messages from registered mobile applications . The mobile originated short burst messages may originate from a mobile application e.g. an SMS client an IM client an MMS client an SIP client etc. on the mobile device . The mobile originated short burst messages may be received via the MAC software API in the manner described above.

The MAC software may also send mobile originated short burst messages over the wireless communication network . The message based approach described herein and or the service flow based approach described herein may be used to send the mobile originated short burst messages . The MAC software may determine whether the message based approach or the service flow based approach should be used. To send a mobile originated short burst message using the message based approach the MAC software may create a short burst message request that includes the mobile originated short burst message and send the short burst message request to a base station . To send a mobile originated short burst message using the service flow based approach the MAC software may establish a short burst service flow and send the mobile originated short burst message via the short burst service flow .

The MAC software may also forward mobile terminated short burst messages to intended mobile applications on the mobile device . The mobile terminated short burst messages may be destined for a mobile application on the mobile device . The mobile terminated short burst messages may be received from a base station . The mobile terminated short burst messages may be received using the message based approach or the service flow based approach. If the message based approach is used then a mobile terminated short burst message may be included in a short burst message indication that is received by the MAC software . If the service flow based approach is used then a mobile terminated short burst message may be received via a short burst service flow that was previously established.

The method of described above may be performed by various hardware and or software component s and or module s corresponding to the means plus function blocks illustrated in . In other words blocks through illustrated in correspond to means plus function blocks through illustrated in . Thus illustrates an apparatus for supporting short burst messages over wireless communication networks .

Reference is now made to . illustrates certain components that may be included within a wireless device that is configured in accordance with the present disclosure. The wireless device may be a mobile device or a base station.

The wireless device includes a processor . The processor may be a general purpose single or multi chip microprocessor e.g. an ARM a special purpose microprocessor e.g. a digital signal processor DSP a microcontroller a programmable gate array etc. The processor may be referred to as a central processing unit CPU . Although just a single processor is shown in the wireless device of in an alternative configuration a combination of processors e.g. an ARM and DSP could be used.

The wireless device also includes memory . The memory may be any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The memory may be embodied as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices in RAM on board memory included with the processor EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers and so forth including combinations thereof.

Data and instructions may be stored in the memory . The instructions may be executable by the processor to implement the methods disclosed herein. Executing the instructions may involve the use of the data that is stored in the memory .

The wireless device may also include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of signals between the wireless device and a remote location. The transmitter and receiver may be collectively referred to as a transceiver . An antenna may be electrically coupled to the transceiver . The wireless device may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or multiple antenna.

The various components of the wireless device may be coupled together by one or more buses which may include a power bus a control signal bus a status signal bus a data bus etc. For the sake of clarity the various buses are illustrated in as a bus system .

In the above description reference numbers have sometimes been used in connection with various terms. Where a term is used in connection with a reference number this is meant to refer to a specific element that is shown in one or more of the Figures. Where a term is used without a reference number this is meant to refer generally to the term without limitation to any particular Figure.

The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on. 

The term processor should be interpreted broadly to encompass a general purpose processor a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a controller a microcontroller a state machine and so forth. Under some circumstances a processor may refer to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA etc. The term processor may refer to a combination of processing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The term memory should be interpreted broadly to encompass any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The term memory may refer to various types of processor readable media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage registers etc. Memory is said to be in electronic communication with a processor if the processor can read information from and or write information to the memory. Memory that is integral to a processor is in electronic communication with the processor.

The terms instructions and code should be interpreted broadly to include any type of computer readable statement s . For example the terms instructions and code may refer to one or more programs routines sub routines functions procedures etc. Instructions and code may comprise a single computer readable statement or many computer readable statements. The terms instructions and code may be used interchangeably herein.

The functions described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions on a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium refers to any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers.

Software or instructions may also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of transmission medium.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is required for proper operation of the method that is being described the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

Further it should be appreciated that modules and or other appropriate means for performing the methods and techniques described herein such as those illustrated by can be downloaded and or otherwise obtained by a device. For example a device may be coupled to a server to facilitate the transfer of means for performing the methods described herein. Alternatively various methods described herein can be provided via a storage means e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a physical storage medium such as a compact disc CD or floppy disk etc. such that a device may obtain the various methods upon coupling or providing the storage means to the device. Moreover any other suitable technique for providing the methods and techniques described herein to a device can be utilized.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the systems methods and apparatus described herein without departing from the scope of the claims.

