---

title: Method and apparatus for forward link power control
abstract: A forward link power control mechanism measures the reverse link power control bits which are transmitted on the forward traffic channel. At the remote station, the reverse link power control bits from multiples base stations or multiple signal paths are measured, combined, and filtered to yield an improved measurement of the forward link signal quality. The reverse link power control bits which are deemed unreliable are omitted from use in the power control loop. The remote station generates a set of forward link power control bit in accordance with the measurements and transmits these bits to all base stations in communication with the remote station. Each base station adjusts its gain of the forward traffic channel in accordance to its measurement of the forward link power control bit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07809044&OS=07809044&RS=07809044
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07809044
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081023
---
The present Application for Patent is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 877 174 entitled Method and Apparatus for Forward Link Power Control filed Jun. 25 2004 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 320 entitled Method and Apparatus for Forward Link Power Control filed Mar. 6 2002 and issued Jun. 29 2004 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 6 396 867 entitled Method and Apparatus for Forward Link Power Control filed Apr. 25 1997 and issued May 28 2002 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to data communication. More particularly the present invention relates to a novel and improved method and apparatus for the forward link power control in a communication system.

The use of code division multiple access CDMA modulation techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Other multiple access communication system techniques such as time division multiple access TDMA and frequency division multiple access FDMA are known in the art. However the spread spectrum modulation techniques of CDMA have significant advantages over other modulation techniques for multiple access communication systems. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated by reference herein. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM also assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated by reference herein. Furthermore the CDMA system can be designed to conform to the TIA EIA IS 95 A Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System hereinafter referred to as the IS 95 A standard or TIA EIA IS 95 A.

CDMA by its inherent nature of being a wideband signal offers a form of frequency diversity by spreading the signal energy over a wide bandwidth. Therefore frequency selective fading affects only a small part of the CDMA signal bandwidth. Space or path diversity is obtained by providing multiple signal paths through simultaneous links to a mobile user or remote station through two or more base stations. Furthermore path diversity may be obtained by exploiting the multipath environment through spread spectrum processing by allowing signals arriving with different propagation delays to be received and processed separately. Examples of path diversity are illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 501 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A SOFT HANDOFF IN COMMUNICATIONS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 390 entitled DIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

The reverse link refers to a transmission from a remote station to a base station. On the reverse link each transmitting remote station acts as an interference to other remote stations in the network. Therefore the reverse link capacity is limited by the total interference due to transmissions from other remote stations. The CDMA system increases the reverse link capacity by transmitting fewer bits thereby using less power and reducing interference when the user is not speaking.

To minimize interference and maximize the reverse link capacity the transmit power of each remote station is controlled by three reverse link power control loops. The first power control loop adjusts the transmit power of the remote station by setting the transmit power inversely proportional to the received power on the forward link. In an IS 95 A system the transmit power is given by p 73 pwhere pis the power received by the remote station given in dBm pis the transmit power of the remote station given in dBm and 73 is a constant. This power control loop is often called the open loop.

The second power control loop adjusts the transmission power of the remote station such that the signal quality as measured by the energy per bit to noise plus interference ratio E I of the reverse link signal received at the base station is maintained at a predetermined level. This level is referred to as the E Iset point. The base station measures the E Iof the reverse link signal received at the base station and transmits a reverse link power control bit to the remote station on the forward traffic channel in response to the measured E I. The reverse power control bits are set 16 times per 20 msec frame or at an 800 bps rate. The forward traffic channel carries the reverse link power control bits along with the data from the base station to the remote station. This second loop is often called the inner closed loop.

The CDMA communication system typically transmits packets of data as discrete data frames. Thus the desired level of performance is typically measured by the frame error rate FER . The third power control loop adjusts the E Iset point such that the desired level of performance as measured by the FER is maintained. The required E Ito obtain a given FER depends upon the propagation conditions. This third loop is often called the outer closed loop. The power control mechanism for the reverse link is disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 109 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING TRANSMISSION POWER IN A CDMA CELLULAR MOBILE TELEPHONE SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

The forward link refers to a transmission from a base station to a remote station. On the forward link the transmission power of the base station is controlled for several reasons. A high transmission power from the base station can cause excessive interference with the signals received at other remote stations. Alternatively if the transmission power of the base station is too low the remote station can receive erroneous data transmissions. Terrestrial channel fading and other known factors can affect the quality of the forward link signal as received by the remote station. As a result each base station attempts to adjust its transmission power to maintain the desired level of performance at the remote station.

Power control on the forward link is especially important for data transmissions. Data transmission is typically asymmetric with the amount of data transmitted on the forward link being greater than on the reverse link. With an effective power control mechanism on the forward link wherein the transmission power is controlled to maintain the desired level of performance the overall forward link capacity can be improved.

A method and apparatus for controlling the forward link transmission power is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 035 209 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING FAST FORWARD POWER CONTROL IN A MOBILE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM hereinafter the 209 patent filed Mar. 31 1995 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. In the method disclosed in the 209 patent the remote station transmits an error indicator bit EIB message to the base station when a transmitted frame of data is received in error. The EIB can be either a bit contained in the reverse traffic channel frame or a separate message sent on the reverse traffic channel. In response to the EIB message the base station increases its transmission power to the remote station.

One of the disadvantages of this method is the long response time. The processing delay encompasses the time interval from the time the base station transmits the frame with inadequate power to the time the base station adjusts its transmission power in response to the error message from the remote station. This processing delay includes the time it takes for 1 the base station to transmit the data frame with inadequate power 2 the remote station to receive the data frame 3 the remote station to detect the frame error e.g. a frame erasure 4 the remote station to transmit the error message to the base station and 5 the base station to receive the error message and appropriately adjust its transmission power. The forward traffic channel frame must be received demodulated and decoded before the EIB message is generated. Then the reverse traffic channel frame carrying the EIB message must be generated encoded transmitted decoded and processed before the bit can be used to adjust the transmit power of the forward traffic channel.

Typically the desired level of performance is one percent FER. Therefore on the average the remote station transmits one error message indicative of a frame error every 100 frames. In accordance with the IS 95 A standard each frame is 20 msec long. This type of EIB based power control works well to adjust the forward link transmit power to handle shadowing conditions but due to its slow speed is ineffective in fading except in the slowest fading conditions.

A second method for controlling the forward link transmission power utilizes the E Iof the received signal at the remote station. Since the FER is dependent on the E Iof the received signal a power control mechanism can be designed to maintain the E Iat the desired level. This design encounters difficulty if data is transmitted on the forward link at variable rates. On the forward link the transmission power is adjusted depending on the data rate of the data frame. At lower data rates each data bit is transmitted over a longer time period by repeating the modulation symbol as described in TIA EIA IS 95 A. The energy per bit Eis the accumulation of the received power over one bit time period and is obtained by accumulating the energy in each modulation symbol. For an equivalent amount of E each data bit can be transmitted at proportionally less transmission power at the lower data rates. Typically the remote station does not know the transmission rate a priori and cannot compute the received energy per bit Euntil the entire data frame has been demodulated decoded and the data rate of the data frame determined. Thus the delay of this method is as described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 035 209 and the rate is one power control message per frame. This is in contrast with the reverse link approach in which there can be one power control message bit sixteen times per frame as in TIA EIA IS 95 A.

Other methods and apparatus for performing fast forward link power control are described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 035 209 U.S. Pat. No. 6 137 840 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING FAST FORWARD POWER CONTROL IN A MOBILE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Nov. 15 1995 issued Oct. 24 2000 to Edward G. Tiedemann Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 903 554 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING LINK QUALITY IN A SPREAD SPECTRUM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 27 1996 U.S. Pat. No. 5 893 035 entitled CENTRALIZED FORWARD LINK POWER CONTROL filed Sep. 16 1996 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 075 974 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ADJUSTING THRESHOLDS AND MEASUREMENTS OF RECEIVED SIGNALS BY ANTICIPATING POWER CONTROL COMMANDS YET TO BE EXECUTED filed Nov. 20 1996 all are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

The fundamental difference between the forward link and the reverse link is that the transmission rate does not need to be known on the reverse link. As described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 109 at lower rates the remote station does not transmit continuously. When the remote station is transmitting the remote station transmits at the same power level and the same waveform structure regardless of the transmission rate. The base station determines the value of a power control bit and sends this bit to the remote station 16 times per frame. Since the remote station knows the transmission rate the remote station can ignore power control bits corresponding to times when it was not transmitting. This permits fast reverse link power control. However the effective power control rate varies with the transmission rate. For TIA EIA IS 95 A the rate is 800 bps for full rate frames and 100 bps for rate frames.

An alternative reverse link architecture is described in the U.S. Pat. No. 5 930 230 entitled HIGH DATA RATE CDMA WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM hereinafter the 230 patent filed May 28 1996 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. In accordance with the 230 patent an auxiliary pilot is introduced into the reverse link. The pilot level is independent of the transmission rate on the reverse link. This permits the base station to measure the pilot level and to send the reverse link power control bit to the remote station at a constant rate.

The present invention is a novel and improved method and apparatus for high rate forward link power control. The present invention improves the response time of the forward link power control loop and allows for dynamic adjustment of the transmission power on the forward link by measuring the quality of the reverse link power control bits which are transmitted on the forward traffic channel at multiple times within a frame. Measurements over short time intervals allow the base station to dynamically adjust the transmission power to minimize interference to other base stations and maximize the forward link capacity. The improved response time allows the power control loop to effectively compensate for slow fading. For fast fading the block interleaver in the communication system is effective.

In accordance with the present invention the remote station measures the reverse link power control bits which are transmitted at a rate of 800 bits per second on the forward traffic channel. The reverse link power control bits are punctured into the forward traffic channel data stream. The gain of the power control bits is adjusted along with the gain of the forward link data bits. However unlike the data bits the transmission level of the power control bit is not scaled according to the data rate. The measured signal quality of the power control bits is used to adjust the transmission power of the base stations.

It is an object of the present invention to improve the response time of the forward link power control by the use of the energy measurements of the reverse link power control bits. The reverse link power control bits are transmitted at a rate of 800 bps. Thus the forward link power control mechanism of the present invention can perform a measurement of the quality of the received forward traffic channels periodically every 1.25 msec. The measurements can be transmitted to the base stations for use in adjustment of the forward link transmission power. The improved response time allows the base stations to effectively compensate for slow fades in the channel and improve the performance of the forward traffic channels.

It is another object of the present invention to increase the capacity of forward link by allowing for rapid adjustments in the transmission power of the base stations. The power control mechanism of the present invention allows the base stations to transmit at the minimal transmission power necessary to maintain the requisite level of performance. Since the total transmission power of the base stations is fixed minimal transmission for a given task results in a saving of transmission power which can be used for other tasks.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide for a reliable forward link power control mechanism. At the remote station the reverse link power control bits from multiple sectors of a base station or multiple signal paths from the same sector are combined to yield an improved measurement of the forward link signal quality. The reverse link power control bits which are deemed unreliable may be omitted from use in the power control loop. At the base stations the forward link power control bits are received by all base stations in communication with the remote station. The gains of the forward traffic channels of the base stations are corrected periodically so that erroneous reception of the forward link power control bits by the base stations do not accumulate.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide a mechanism to adjust the forward link power to the desired frame error rate similar to that done by the outer loop for the reverse link.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide a mechanism to communicate the power control bits between base stations. The power control bits which control the forward link transmit power may or may not have been correctly received at different base stations. The present invention provides base stations which receive erroneous power control bits with the information necessary to update their forward link transmit power.

In the present invention the base station transmits the reverse link power control bits along with the data on the forward traffic channel. The reverse link power control bits are used by the remote station to control its transmission power so as to maintain the desired level of performance while minimizing the interference to other remote stations in the system. The power control mechanism for the reverse link is disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 035 209. Because of sensitivity to processing delays the reverse link power control bits are not encoded. In fact the power control bits are punctured onto the data see . In this sense puncturing is a process by which one or more code symbols are replaced by the power control bits.

In the exemplary embodiment the reverse link power control bits are transmitted at a rate of 800 bps or one power control bit for every 1.25 msec time slot. The time slot is called a power control group. Transmitting the power control bits at evenly spaced intervals can result in the base station sending out power control bits to multiple remote stations at the same time. This results in a peak in the amount of transmitted power. As a result the power control bits are pseudo randomly positioned within the 1.25 msec power control group. This is achieved by partitioning the 1.25 msec time slot into 24 positions and pseudo randomly selecting with a long PN sequence the position in which to puncture in the power control bit. In the exemplary embodiment only one of the first 16 positions within the power control group is selected as a starting position and the last 8 positions are not selected.

The forward traffic channel is a variable rate channel and the transmission power of the forward traffic channel is dependent on the data rate. The performance of the forward traffic channel is measured by the FER which is dependent on the energy per bit Eof the signal received at the remote station. At the lower data rates the same energy per bit is spread over a longer time period resulting in a lower transmission power level.

In the exemplary embodiment transmissions over the forward link are made in accordance with TIA EIA IS 95 A. The IS 95 A standard provides for transmission using one of two rate sets. Rate set supports data rates of 9.6 kbps 4.8 kbps 2.4 kbps and 1.2 kbps. The 9.6 kbps data rate is encoded with a rate 1 2 convolutional encoder to yield a 19.2 ksps symbol rate. The encoded data for the lower data rates are repeated N times to obtain the 19.2 ksps symbol rate. Rate set supports data rates of 14.4 kbps 7.2 kbps 3.6 kbps and 1.8 kbps. The 14.4 kbps data rate is encoded with a rate convolutional encoder punctured to obtain a rate . Thus the symbol rate is also 19.2 ksps for the 14.4 kbps data rate. The rate set is selected by the base station during the initiation stage of a call and typically remains in effect for the duration of the communication although the rate set can be changed during the call. In the exemplary embodiment the duration of the reverse link power control bit is two symbols wide 104.2 sec for rate set and one symbol wide 52.1 sec for rate set .

In this specification the transmission gain of the forward traffic channel refers to the energy per bit E traffic of the transmitted data signal. A frame with a lower data rate consists of fewer bits transmitted at the specified energy per bit and therefore is transmitted with less power. In this way the power level of the forward link traffic channel scales with the data rate of the frame currently being transmitted. The transmission gain of the reverse link power control bits refers to the energy per bit E power control of the reverse link power control bits punctured into the data stream. Each reverse link power control bit has the same duration and therefore the power level of these bits does not depend on the data rate of the frame into which they are punctured. These characteristics of the power control bits are exploited by the present invention to provide the improved forward link power control mechanism. The operation of forward link power control causes the base station to make adjustments in the traffic channel gain. In the exemplary embodiment each adjustment to the traffic channel gain is also applied to the gain of the reverse link power control bits so that the two gains are adjusted together.

The present invention determines the quality of the forward link signal as received by the remote station by measuring the amplitude of the reverse link power control bits which are transmitted on the forward traffic channel. The quality of the data bits are not measured directly but rather inferred from the measured amplitude of the reverse link power control bits. This is reasonable since the power control bits and the traffic data are equally affected by changes in the propagation environment. Therefore the present invention operates well if the amplitude of the data bits is maintained at a known ratio to the amplitude of the power control bits.

Typically the reverse link power control bits are transmitted at a low transmission power level. Furthermore the power control bits can be transmitted from multiple base stations within the communication system. A more accurate measurement of the amplitude of the power control bits is obtained by receiving the power control bits adjusting the phase and amplitude of the power control bits in accordance with the phase and amplitude of the pilot signal and filtering the adjusted amplitude of the power control bits. The filtered amplitude of the power control bits are used to control the transmission power of the base station such that the quality of the forward link signal received at the remote station is maintained at the desired level.

The forward link power control mechanism of the present invention operates two power control loops. The first power control loop the closed loop adjusts the transmission power of the base station such that the quality of the filtered amplitude of the reverse link power control bits received at the remote station is maintained at a target energy level. In most situations the target energy level is determinative of the FER of the forward traffic channel. The remote station requests the base station to adjust the forward link transmit power by sending forward link power control bits over the reverse link. Each forward link power control bit causes the base station to increase or decrease the gain of the corresponding traffic channel. The second power control loop the outer loop is the mechanism by which the remote station adjusts the target energy level in order to maintain the desired FER.

In order to improve the effectiveness of the forward link power control mechanism e.g. to combat slow fading in the channel the closed loop is designed to operate at a high rate. In the exemplary embodiment the reverse link power control bits from which the quality measurements of the forward link signal are made are transmitted at 800 bps and the forward link power control bits are also sent on the reverse traffic channel at 800 bps. Thus the transmission power of the base station can be adjusted at rates up to 800 times per second. However because the forward power control bits are sent uncoded and with minimal energy some forward power control bits may not be received satisfactorily at the base station. A base station may elect to ignore any forward power control bits which it considers to be sufficiently unreliable.

In the exemplary embodiment the second forward link power control loop the outer loop updates the target energy level once every frame or 50 times per second. The outer loop sets the value of the target energy level which results in the desired FER performance. When the propagation environment is not changing the outer loop should quickly determine the appropriate value of the target energy level and keep the target at that level. When there is a change in the channel characteristic for example an increase in the interference level a change in velocity of a mobile user or the appearance or disappearance of a signal path it is likely that a different target energy level will be required in order to continue operation at the same FER. Therefore the outer loop should quickly move the target to the new level to adapt to the new conditions.

Referring to the figures represents an exemplary communication system of the present invention which is composed of multiple base stations in communication with multiple remote stations only one remote station is shown for simplicity . System controller connects to all base stations in the communication system and the public switched telephone network PSTN . System controller coordinates the communication between users connected to PSTN and users on remote stations . Data transmission from base station to remote station occurs on the forward link through signal paths and transmission from remote station to base station occurs on the reverse link through signal paths . The signal path can be a straight path such as signal path or a reflected path such as signal path . Reflected path is created when the signal transmitted from base station is reflected off reflection source and arrives at remote station through a different path than the line of sight path. Although illustrated as a block in reflection source is the results of artifacts in the environment in which remote station is operating e.g. a building or other structures.

An exemplary block diagram of base station and remote station of the present invention is shown in . Data transmission on the forward link originates from data source which provides the data to encoder . An exemplary block diagram of encoder is shown in . Within encoder CRC encoder block encodes the data with a CRC polynomial which in the exemplary embodiment conforms to the CRC generator described in the IS 95 A standard. CRC encoder appends the CRC bits and inserts a set of code tail bits to the data. The formatted data is provided to convolutional encoder which convolutionally encodes the data and provides the encoded data to symbol repeater . Symbol repeater repeats each symbol Ns number of times to maintain a fixed symbol rate at the output of symbol repeater . The repeated symbols are provided to block interleaver . Block interleaver reorders the symbols and provides the interleaved data to modulator MOD . Within modulator the interleaved data is spread by multiplier with the long PN code which scrambles the data so that it can be received only by the receiving remote station . The long PN spread data is multiplexed through MUX and provided to multiplier which covers the data with the Walsh code corresponding to the traffic channel assigned to remote station . The Walsh covered data is further spread with the short PNI and PNQ codes by multipliers and respectively. The short PN spread data is provided to transmitter TMTR see which filters modulates upconverts and amplifies the signal. The modulated signal is routed through duplexer and transmitted from antenna on the forward link through signal path . Duplexer may not be used in some base station designs.

MUX is used to puncture the reverse link power control bits into the data stream. The power control bits are one bit messages which command remote station to increase or decrease the reverse link transmission power. In the exemplary embodiment one power control bit is punctured into the data stream in each 1.25 msec power control group. The duration of the reverse link power control bits is predetermined and can be made dependent on the rate set used by the system. The location at which the reverse link power control bit is punctured is determined by the long PN sequence from long PN generator . The output of MUX contains both data bits and reverse link power control bits.

Referring to at remote station the forward link signal is received by antenna routed through duplexer and provided to receiver RCVR . Receiver filters amplifies demodulates and quantizes the signal to obtain the digitized I and Q baseband signals. The baseband signals are provided to demodulator DEMOD . Demodulator despreads the baseband signals with the short PNI and PNQ codes decovers the despread data with the Walsh code identical to the Walsh code used at base station despreads the Walsh decovered data with the long PN code and provides the demodulated data to decoder .

Within decoder which is shown in block de interleaver reorders the symbols of the demodulated data and provides the de interleaved data to Viterbi decoder . Viterbi decoder decodes the convolutionally encoded data and provides the decoded data to CRC check element . CRC check element performs the CRC check and provides the checked data to data sink .

An exemplary block diagram illustrating the circuit for measuring the energy of the reverse link power control bits is shown in . The digitized I and Q baseband signals from receiver are provided to a bank of correlators . Each correlator can be assigned to a different signal path from the same base station or a different transmission from a different base station . Within each assigned correlator the baseband signals are despread with the short PNI and PNQ codes by multipliers . The short PNI and PNQ codes within each correlator can have a unique offset in accordance with the base station from which the signal was transmitted and corresponding to the propagation delay experienced by the signal being demodulated by that correlator . The short PN despread data is decovered by multipliers with the Walsh code assigned to the traffic channel being received by the correlator . The decovered data is provided to filters which accumulate the energy of the decovered data over a symbol time. The filtered data from filters contains both data and power control bits.

The short PN despread data from multipliers also contains the pilot signal. At base station the pilot signal is covered with the all zero sequence corresponding to Walsh code 0. Thus no Walsh decovering is necessary to obtain the pilot signal. The short PN despread data is provided to filters which perform the lowpass filtering of the despread data to remove the signals from other orthogonal channels e.g. the traffic channels paging channels and access channels transmitted on the forward link by base station .

The two complex signals or vectors corresponding to the filtered pilot signal and the filtered data and power control bits are provided to dot product circuit which computes the dot product of the two vectors in a manner well known in the art. The exemplary embodiment of dot product circuit is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 865 entitled PILOT CARRIER DOT PRODUCT CIRCUIT assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. Dot product circuit projects the vector corresponding to the filtered data onto the vector corresponding to the filtered pilot signal multiplies the amplitude of the vectors and provides a signed scalar output s to demultiplexer DEMUX . The notation s m is used to denote the output from the mcorrelator during the jsymbol period. Remote station has knowledge of whether the jsymbol period of the current frame corresponds to a data bit or a reverse link power control bit. Accordingly DEMUX routes the vector of correlator outputs s s . . . s M to either data combiner or power control processor . Data combiner sums its vector inputs despreads the data using the long PN code and produces the demodulated data which is presented to decoder shown in .

The reverse link power control bits are processed by power control processor shown in detail in . Bit accumulator accumulates one or more symbols s m over the duration of a power control bit to form reverse link power control bits b m . The notation b m is used to denote the reverse link power control bit corresponding to the mcorrelator during the ipower control group. The vector of power control bits b b . . . b M is presented to identical bit accumulator .

In TIA EIA IS 95 A when more than one base station is in communication with the same remote station the base stations can be configured to transmit either identical or non identical reverse link power control bits. Base stations are typically configured to send identical power control bit values when they are physically located at the same location such as when they are different sectors of a cell. Base stations which do not send the same power control bit values are typically those which are physically located at different locations. The IS 95 A standard also specifies a mechanism by which base stations which are configured to send identical power control bits are identified to remote station . Furthermore when remote station is receiving the transmission of a single base station through multiple propagation paths the reverse link power control bits received on these paths are inherently identical. Identical bit accumulator combines the reverse link power control bits b m which are known to be identical. The output of bit accumulator is thus a vector of reverse link power control bits b b . . . b P corresponding to the P independent reverse link power control bit streams.

The vector of sign bits sgn Bi p is presented to reverse link power control logic . The IS 95 A standard specifies that if any one of the signs is negative remote station decreases its transmission power level. If all the sign bits sgn B p are positive remote station increases its transmission power level. Reverse link power control logic processes the vector of sign bits sgn B p as specified in IS 95 A. The output of reverse link power control logic is a single bit which indicates whether remote station should increase or decrease its transmission gain for the purposes of closed loop reverse link power control. This bit is provided to transmitter see which adjusts the gain accordingly.

The amplitude of the reverse link power control bits and not their polarity e.g. the positive or negative sign is indicative of the signal quality as measured by remote station . Non identical bit accumulator therefore removes the modulated data and operates on the absolute value of the reverse link power control bits B p which it combines according to the formula 

The reverse link power control bits are not encoded and therefore are especially vulnerable to errors caused by interference. The fast response time of the closed loop reverse link power control minimizes the effect of such errors on the performance of the reverse link power control since these erroneous adjustments to the transmission gain of remote station can be compensated for in subsequent power control groups. However since the amplitude of the power control bits is used as an indication of the quality of the forward link signal filter is used to provide a more reliable measurement of the amplitude of the power control bits.

Filter can be implemented using one of a number of designs known in the art such as an analog filter or a digital filter. For example filter can be implemented as a finite impulse response FIR filter or an infinite impulse response IIR filter. Using a FIR filter implementation the filtered power control bits can be calculated as 

In the exemplary embodiment described herein the processing performed by remote station in order to execute fast forward link power control has been described in such a way as to share various components used by other subsystems within remote station . For example correlator is shared with the data demodulation subsystem and accumulators and are shared with the reverse link power control subsystem. The practice of the present invention is not dependent on any particular implementation of the other subsystems of remote station . It should be obvious to those skilled in the art that other implementations to perform the forward power control processing as described herein can be contemplated and are therefore within the scope of the present invention.

The filtered amplitude yof the reverse link power control bits from filter is indicative of the quality of the forward link signal received at remote station . Threshold comparison circuit compares the filtered amplitude yagainst a target energy level z. In the exemplary embodiment if yexceeds z remote station transmits a zero 0 bit on its forward link power control subchannel to indicate that each base station which is transmitting a forward traffic channel to remote station should reduce the gain of that traffic channel. Conversely if yis less than z remote station transmits a one 1 bit on its forward link power control subchannel to indicate that each base station should increase the gain on the forward traffic channel. These zeros 0 s and ones 1 s are the forward link power control bit values.

Although the present invention is described in the context of one forward link power control bit per power control group the present invention is applicable toward the use of more bits for higher resolution. For example threshold comparison circuit can quantize the difference between the filtered amplitude yof the reverse link power control bit and the target energy value z to multiple levels. For example a two bit message on the forward link power control subchannel can be used to indicate any one of four levels for the quantity y z . Alternatively remote station can transmit the value of the filtered amplitude yover the forward link power control subchannel.

In the present invention base station does not have to adjust its transmission power at each power control group. Due to the low energy level of the reverse link power control bits remote station may receive the bits in error or with a large degradation due to the noise and interference from other users. Filter improves the accuracy of the measurement but does not totally alleviate the error. In the exemplary embodiment remote station can omit the transmission of a forward link power control bit to base station if it determines that the measurement is unreliable. For example remote station can compare the filtered amplitude yagainst a minimal energy value. If yis below the minimal energy value remote station can ignore the yvalue for this power control group and inform base station accordingly e.g. by not transmitting a forward link power control bit to base station or by using one value from a set of forward link power control values to indicate low received energy . Furthermore the forward link power control bits are also transmitted at a low energy level. Therefore base station can also compare the measured forward link power control bit against its own minimal energy value and not act upon bits which fall below the minimal energy value.

In the exemplary embodiment remote station makes an absolute determination based on the output of CRC check element as well as other frame quality metrics such as the Yamamoto metric and the number of re encoded symbol errors as to whether the frame has been correctly decoded. This determination is summarized in the erasure indicator bit EIB which is set to 1 to indicate a frame erasure and set to 0 otherwise. In the following it is assumed that remote station makes use of an EIB in order to determine if received frames are in error. In the preferred embodiment the EIB used for the purposes of controlling the outer loop of forward link power control is the same as the EIB actually transmitted over the reverse link. However an independent determination of the validity of the received frame for the specific purpose of controlling the outer loop can also be made and is within the scope of the present invention.

In the exemplary embodiment the outer loop is updated once per frame or once in every 16 power control groups. The outer loop updates the target energy level z in remote station . This mechanism is performed by threshold adjust circuit shown in . As each frame is decoded frame quality information e in the form of an EIB is provided to threshold adjust circuit as indicated in . Threshold adjust circuit updates the value of the target energy level z and makes the new target energy level available to threshold comparison circuit .

In the second embodiment the stepsizes and can be made functions of the current target energy level zso that the correction to zis dependent on the current target energy level. Thus equation 3 can be modified as

In the exemplary embodiment remote station completes demodulation of the data frame and updates the target energy level zduring the middle of the succeeding frame. If the k 1 data frame is received in error the probability of a frame error for the kdata frame is greater. This is because any adjustment to the target energy level will not have an immediate impact on the FER performance until the system has had sufficient time to make a transition to the new operating point. Therefore the second of two consecutive frame errors should not be interpreted as indicative of the performance of the target energy level value which was just updated as a result of the first frame error.

In the preferred embodiment base station increases the gain of the traffic channel fully after the first frame error then ignores a second frame error if it occurs in the following frame. Applying this concept to the second embodiment described above equation 4 becomes 

In the exemplary embodiment the outer loop power control mechanism is standardized across all remote stations to ensure conformance by all remote stations . The values of and can be transmitted to each remote station by base station during the initiation stage of a call. New values for these parameters can also be specified by base station during the course of the call.

In a communication system which conforms to the IS 95 A standard the gains of the forward traffic channels are typically decreased when remote station enters soft handoff. This is done without any degradation in the FER performance since the data bits received at remote station from the base stations are combined to yield a larger composite signal before decoding. However the reverse link power control loop within remote station does not combine the reverse link power control bits received from different base stations since these bits are independent. The decrease in the gain on the forward traffic channel can increase the bit error rate of the power control bit stream transmitted on the forward traffic channel and therefore degrade the reverse link power control mechanism. To remedy this situation the gain of the power control bits is typically boosted when remote station enters soft handoff. This results in the gain of the reverse link power control bits being slightly higher than the gain of the data bits whenever remote station is in soft handoff.

In the present invention the absolute values of the power control bits from different base stations are combined according to equation 2 . Thus the boost in the gain of the power control bits results in larger values for yrelative to the data bits. The larger yvalues cause remote station to request an inappropriate decrease in transmission power from base station which can result in one or more frame errors on the forward traffic channel. In this case the target energy value z set by the outer loop automatically increases. After a while the outer loop then adjusts the target energy value z to the new nominal value. To combat these effects ycan be scaled before comparison with the target energy level z. Alternatively the target energy level z can be slightly increased when remote station enters soft handoff. This can reduce the likelihood of these errors.

In the present invention the comparison of the filtered amplitude yto the target energy level z is performed within power control processor see . Furthermore the update of the target energy level in accordance with equation 3 4 or 5 is also performed within power control processor . Controller processor can be implemented in a microcontroller a microprocessor a digital signal processing DSP chip or an ASIC programmed to perform the function as described herein.

The forward link power control bits can be transmitted to base station by one of several methods. In the exemplary embodiment each remote station has a forward link power control channel on the reverse link which is dedicated for the transmission of the forward link power control bits. In the alternative embodiment wherein the dedicated power control channel is not available the forward link power control bits can be punctured or multiplexed onto the reverse link data bit stream in a manner similar to that done on the forward traffic channel.

In the exemplary embodiment the forward link power control bits are transmitted to base station on a dedicated forward link power control channel. A method and apparatus for providing a dedicated forward link power control channel is described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 930 230. Timing diagrams of the transmission of the forward and reverse link power control bits are shown is . In each power control group delineated by the heavy hashmarks on the timelines a reverse link power control bit is transmitted on the forward traffic channel as depicted in the top diagram of . In the exemplary embodiment one reverse link power control bit is transmitted in each 1.25 msec power control group and each reverse link power control bit is two symbols in duration for rate set . Furthermore each reverse link power control bit can start from one of 16 positions within the power control group depending on the long PN sequence.

Remote station processes the reverse link power control bit and transmits a forward link power control bit on the reverse power control channel to base station as a pulse. In the exemplary embodiment the pulse is sent with positive polarity to indicate a forward link power control bit with value zero 0 and with negative polarity to indicate a the value one 1 . The timing and duration of the pulses are design parameters which are described in the following embodiments. Other choices for these parameters can be contemplated and are within the scope of the present invention.

In the first embodiment the forward link power control bits are transmitted as pulses of length 1.25 msec beginning at 0.625 msec after the last possible i.e. the 16 power control bit position on the forward traffic channel. This configuration is illustrated in the middle diagram of wherein the parameter delay is set to 0.625 msec. A delay of 0.625 msec allows some time for remote station to deskew the paths of the forward link signal in a worst case scenario. The deskewing properly aligns the signals from different signal paths before combining and ensures that the reverse link power control bit from the previous power control group are processed by the time the forward link power control bit is transmitted. However the actual delay from the reception of the reverse link power control bit to the transmittal of the forward link power control bit can be as large as 1.45 msec when the reverse link power control bit is transmitted in the earliest possible bit position.

In the second embodiment the forward link power control bits are transmitted as pulses of length 1.25 msec beginning at approximately 0.050 msec after the latest possible i.e. the 16 power control bit position on the forward traffic channel. This configuration is identical to the first embodiment except that the parameter delay is set to 0.050 msec. In the worst case scenario the reverse link power control bit from the previous power control group will not have been processed due to deskewing delays by the time the next forward link power control bit is scheduled to be transmitted. In this situation remote station can be configured to repeat the latest forward link power control bit. However deskewing delays are typically in the tens of sec so in the majority of cases the forward link power control bit will still be able to take into account the processing of the most recent reverse link power control bit. It should be evident that the parameter delay can be chosen to optimize the performance of the system.

In a third embodiment shown in the bottom diagram of the forward link power control bit is transmitted as a short pulse of approximately 0.41 msec in duration at a predetermined amount of time delay in after reception of the reverse link power control bit on the forward traffic channel. The duration of the forward link power control bit is chosen to be small enough so that it will be finished by the time the following forward link power control bit is to be sent even in the worst case when the latest possible time slot is used in the current power control group and the earliest possible time slot is to be used in the following power control group. In the exemplary embodiment the amount of delay is set to 0.050 msec delay 0.050 msec . As illustrated in this embodiment entails higher transmission power for the duration of the pulse in order to transmit the same amount of energy over a shorter pulse duration. One drawback of this method is that the transmission of large amounts of energy within short pulses at 800 Hz can potentially cause interference in the audio band to persons with hearing aids. However since remote station transmits the forward link power control bits a fixed amount of time after the reverse link power control bits and the reverse link power control bits are randomly positioned the forward link power control bits are also randomly positioned. Randomizing the starting position of the power control bits spectrally distributes the energy at 800 Hz and minimizes the audio interference. Furthermore the forward link power control channel sent on the reverse link from remote station is one of many data streams transmitted on the reverse link. Since the power in the bit is low the net variation in the output power of remote station due to the power control bits is small.

Finally in a fourth embodiment the forward link power control bit is transmitted after a fixed amount of time delay 0.050 msec following the reception of a reverse link power control bit. In this embodiment however the duration of the forward link power control bit is variable and transmission of the current forward link power control bit is continued until the next forward link power control bit is scheduled. Remote station can send each forward link power control bit with the same gain or it can adjust the transmit gain based on the duration of the bit in order to send each bit with the same amount of energy.

Referring to the forward link power control bits are processed by power control processor within remote station . Power control processor computes the forward link power control bits which are sent on the reverse link and sends the bits to modulator MOD . Modulator covers the bits with the Walsh code corresponding to the reverse power control channel spreads the covered data with the long and short PN codes and provides the spread data to transmitter TMTR . Transmitter can be implemented as described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 930 230. Transmitter filters modulates and amplifies the signal. The modulated signal is routed through duplexer and transmitted from antenna on the reverse link through signal path .

At base station the reverse link signal is received by antenna routed through duplexer and provided to receiver RCVR . Receiver filters amplifies and downconverts the signal to obtain the baseband signals. The baseband signals are provided to demodulator DEMOD . Demodulator despreads the baseband signals with the short PN codes decovers the despread data with the Walsh code identical to the Walsh code used at remote station and provides the demodulated data to controller . The demodulated data includes the forward link power control bits. Controller can adjust the gain of the forward traffic channel and or the transmission power of base station as indicated by the forward link power control bits.

In the present invention base station receives the forward link power control bits which are transmitted on the reverse power control channel and controls the gain of the forward traffic channel. In the exemplary embodiment upon receipt of a one 1 for the forward link power control bit base station increases the gain of the forward traffic channel. Upon receipt of a zero 0 base station decreases the gain. The amount of increase or decrease in the gain is dependent on the implementation and system considerations. In the exemplary embodiment the increase or decrease in gain can be in steps of 0.5 dB to 1.0 dB although other step sizes can be utilized. The step size for the gain increase can be the same or different from the step size for the gain decrease. Furthermore the step size in gain can be made dependent on the gains of other forward traffic channels at base station . The present invention is applicable to all step sizes in gain adjustment.

Base station can also adjust the increase in gain the decrease in gain or both as a function of the velocity and the fading conditions of remote station . Base station does this since the optimal step size is a function of the fading conditions and the velocity of remote station . For example at very high velocities smaller step sizes may work better since the rate of the power control bit is not fast enough to follow the rapid fading. Since the forward link interleaver averages the fading large power control step sizes just tend to add amplitude jitter to the forward link waveform. However fast power control is needed to dynamically adjust the average waveform to the correct level. Demodulator within base station can estimate the fading conditions and the velocity of remote station . Searcher elements in demodulator can determine the number of multipath components currently being received and compute their profile. These searcher elements are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 390 entitled DIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 316 177 entitled MULTIPATH SEARCH PROCESSOR FOR A SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 30 1994 both are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

Demodulator can also estimate the velocity of remote station by estimating the reverse link frequency error using demodulation techniques which are well known in the art. The frequency error is approximately 2 f v c where fis the operating frequency v is the velocity of remote station c is the speed of light and is the residual frequency error of remote station . In conformance with TIA EIA IS 95 A remote station measures the frequency which is received on the forward link and uses this to set the transmit frequency on the reverse link. A discussion of the setting the transmit frequency based on the measured received frequency is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 822 318 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING POWER IN A VARIABLE RATE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Jul. 29 1994 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. Remote station does this to remove the error from its own oscillator. This process results in a doubling of the Doppler frequency error of the signal received at base station as there is a frequency error of f v c on the forward link and a frequency error of f v c on the reverse link. The error in setting the transmit frequency in remote station from the received frequency is . For a high velocity mobile the error is relatively small. Thus demodulator can provide velocity and multipath estimates to controller which then uses these information to determine the gain increase and decrease and the step sizes.

Base station has a maximum transmission power that is determined by the system design constraints and FCC regulations. Inevitably base station will experience a situation in which it does not have enough available power when remote station requests a gain increase. If base station limits or ignores the gain increase command because of inadequate transmission power the FER for the forward traffic channel can increase. When this occurs the target energy level at remote station can increase substantially and quickly. This is due to the fact that the upward step in equation 5 is typically large relative to the downward step . If the poor channel condition disappears or base station is able to transmit additional power to remote station the time it takes the target energy level z to settle to the proper range can be long since the downward step is typically small. In the preferred embodiment base station transmits new values for the upward step and the downward step during the time when the FER on the forward link is higher than nominal.

In the present invention the FER performance of the forward traffic channel is related to the target energy level z. Thus base station can directly adjust the target energy level z to obtain the desired FER. For example if base station realizes that the system is highly loaded and one or more remote stations need to operate at higher FERs base station can alter the target energy levels of these remote stations by transmitting the new target energy levels z to the remote stations . Alternatively base station can manipulate the target energy levels by commanding these remote stations to use the new upward steps and downward steps . In the exemplary embodiment whenever base station is not able to respond to the power control command from remote station base station adjusts the target energy level or upward and downward steps to prevent the power control loop from hitting the maximum transmission power and operating in the non linear region.

To ensure that the forward link power control mechanism works properly and that no remote station requests more or less transmission power than necessary for the requisite level of performance base station can monitor the FER of the forward traffic channel. In the exemplary embodiment remote station transmits an error message to base station whenever a data frame is received in error. This error message can be the erasure indicator bit EIB described previously. Base station can monitor the error messages from remote station calculate the FER and manipulate the target energy level z of remote station by assigning remote station the proper values for the upward step and the downward step .

The forward link power control mechanism of the present invention performs better when delays are minimized. In order to compensate for fading of the forward traffic channel base station should apply the increase or decrease in transmission power as requested by remote station as soon as possible. When remote station is not in soft handoff the forward link power control bits are received by a single base station which adjusts the gain of the forward traffic channel in response to the forward link power control bit. A remote station in softer handoff communicates with multiple sectors simultaneously. In the exemplary embodiment a single channel element in one base station is used to control the communication between remote station and all sectors in softer handoff. Therefore base station can quickly adjust the transmission power of all sectors upon reception of the forward link power control bit from remote station .

A remote station in soft handoff can communicate with multiple base stations simultaneously. The method and apparatus for performing distributed forward link power control is described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 893 035. Some base stations may not receive the forward link power control bit stream or may not receive the power control bit stream with sufficient reliability. In the present invention a forward link power control correction mechanism is used to ensure that the gains of the forward traffic channels of all base stations in the active member set of remote station are set properly and that erroneous reception of forward link power control bits by the base stations do not accumulate. In the exemplary embodiment when remote station is in soft handoff the gain of the forward traffic channel of the base station which receives the reverse link signal the strongest is used by all base stations in the active member set. The power control correction mechanism can be accomplished by the following embodiments.

In the first embodiment to ensure that gains of the forward traffic channels are approximately equal for all base stations in communication with remote station the selected forward link power control bit stream is provided to all base stations . For each frame all base stations in the active member set send the forward link power control bits which were received by the base stations to a selector within system controller . The selector selects the power control bits from the base station which receives the reverse link signal the strongest. The selected power control bits from this base station is then provided to all base stations in the active member set. Each base station receives the selected forward link power control bits from the selector compares the selected bits with the bits that it actually received and processed and readjusts the gains on the forward traffic channels to conform with the selected forward link power control bits.

Base stations can send the power control bits to the selector within controller in backhaul frames. The backhaul frame selection can be done in accordance with existing procedures used in TIA EIA IS 95 A systems. After processing the selector can send the selected forward link power control bits to all base stations in backhaul frames carrying user traffic for transmission to remote station .

In the second embodiment each base station sends the gain of the forward traffic channel to the selector at every frame. The selector selects the gain corresponding to the base station which received the reverse link signal the strongest. The selector sends the selected gain to all base stations in the active member set and the base stations update their gains accordingly. The selected gain is just the gain value sent from the selector to base stations in existing TIA EIA IS 95 A systems. This gain value is carried on backhaul formats which are sent on interface A as specified in the TIA EIA IS 634 A standard which is incorporated by reference herein.

Due to processing delays the update of the gains of the forward traffic channels requires some care. In the exemplary embodiment each base station can adjust the gain of its forward traffic channel based on its measurement of the forward link power control bits from remote station . However the selector may determine that the power control bits received by another base station should be used. This decision is usually not made until a predetermined amount of time after the base stations have applied their own measurements of the forward link power control bits. Therefore the base stations need to adjust the gains of their forward traffic channels in accordance with the power control bits the base stations actually received and the selected power control bits from the selector. The base stations also need to account for the delay between the original gain adjustments and the receipt of the selected power control bits from the selector.

In the exemplary embodiment each base station stores the gains that were used by that base station at each update period. The selector sends the selected power control bit or the selected gain of the base station which was determined to be the most likely to have received the power control bit correctly. Each base station then compares the gains that were stored at the update period to that which was received from the selector and updates the gain at the current time slot by the difference. The gain Gfor the ipower control bit is thus 2 1 6 where Gis the gain during the itime slot bis the value one or zero of the ipower control bit is the gain step size M is the number of power control bits per frame p is the offset in time slots from the start of a frame to the time the power control bits are sent from base station to the selector 0 p M 1 His gain of the forward traffic channel specified by the selector during the kframe where k i M q is the offset in time slots from the start of a frame to the time the updated gain is received at base station from the selector 0 q M 1 and equals 1 if i j and 0 otherwise. In the exemplary embodiment M is equal to 16 although other values of M can be used and are within the scope of the present invention.

An exemplary timing diagram of the forward link power control correction mechanism is shown in . Forward traffic channel frames and reverse link data frames are almost exactly aligned in time skewed only by the over the air propagation delay. Frames of duration of 20 msec are indexed as k k 1 k 2 and k 3 and delineated by thick hashmarks in . Frame k of the reverse link data stream is received at base station and after some processing delay is decoded some time during frame k 1 as indicated by block . Meanwhile base station is also processing forward link power control commands with considerably less processing delay. Thus the shaded forward link power control bits in the lower timeline of depict the 20 msec block of forward link power control bits which is sent to the selector in the same backhaul frame along with frame k of the reverse link data stream. During frame k 2 the selector selects the forward link power control bits from the base station which received the strongest reverse link signal and sends these selected power control bits to all base stations in the active member set of remote station at block . Typically the selected power control bits are sent in a backhaul frame. Shortly thereafter also within frame k 2 the base stations receive the selected power control bits from the selector and correct the gains of the forward traffic channels in accordance with the selected power control bits in the manner described above at block . By the beginning of frame k 3 the base stations transmit with the updated gains as indicated by block .

The above example shows three frames of processing delay from the time remote station transmits the forward link power control bits to the time the base stations corrects the gains of the forward traffic channels. However in the exemplary embodiment each base station can adjust the gain of its forward traffic channel in response to its measurement of the forward link power control bit. In this way each base station can rapidly adjust the gain of its forward traffic channel on its own and the processing delay is minimized. The forward link power control correction mechanism wherein the power control bits from the base station which measures the reverse link signal the strongest are used to correct the gains of the forward traffic channels of other base stations in the active member set ensures that the erroneous reception of power control bits by the base stations do not accumulate. Other embodiments to ensure correct operations of the forward link power control mechanism by all base stations can be contemplated and are within the scope of the present invention.

Although the present invention is described in terms of the forward link power control mechanism the inventive concept disclosed herein is also applicable for the reverse link power control.

The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

