---

title: Signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion
abstract: Signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion includes: receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for a meeting; analyzing, for each topic, one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic; receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting; identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda; determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic, the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion; and rendering the correspondence indicator to the participants of the meeting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08214242&OS=08214242&RS=08214242
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08214242
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080424
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods apparatus and products for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion.

A meeting is an event designed to facilitate the flow of information within a group of people. In a typical meeting two or more people come together for the purpose of discussing one or more topics such as for example business or community event planning financial forecasting status reports adhoc organization responses and so on. Such a meeting may occur when participants gather together in the same physical locations such as a meeting room or while participants are scattered in disparate physical locations. Meetings of participants in disparate physical locations may be carried out using computers or other communications equipment to establish conference calls video conference calls chat rooms virtual meeting rooms and so on.

Unless meetings are properly planned and executed meetings have the potential to waste an organization s resources. To enhance meeting efficiency meetings often include a meeting agenda. A meeting agenda is typically created by the individual organizing the meeting and specifies the topics for discussion during the meeting. In such a manner the meeting agenda may be used to guide the discussions of the participants during the meeting. In addition the meeting agenda is often distributed to the meeting participates before the meeting begins to allow the participants time to prepare for the meeting.

Although a meeting agenda serves as a discussion guide during a meeting human nature typically ensures that meetings go off topic or get off schedule. Going off topic refers to the tendency of participants to begin discussing topics not specified in the meeting agenda. Getting off schedule refers to the tendency of participants to discuss a particular meeting topic in the meeting agenda too long or not long enough based on the time frames that may be established in the meeting agenda. For example meetings designated for brainstorming are often prone to going off topic or getting off schedule.

Going off topic or getting off schedule is not usually an intentional act by any of the participants of the meeting such tendencies simply the result from the natural of flow conversations among humans. Unless someone facilitates the meeting who can firmly keep the meeting discussions about the topics specified in the meeting agenda going off topic or getting off schedule are likely to occur. When the meeting facilitator is also a participant in the meeting that takes part in the meeting discussions adhering the meeting discussion to the meeting agenda often becomes even more difficult.

Methods apparatus and products are disclosed for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion that include receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for a meeting analyzing for each topic one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion and rendering the correspondence indicator to the participants of the meeting.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a line drawing illustrating an exemplary system for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion for a meeting according to embodiments of the present invention. The meeting of includes several participants around a table discussing various topics. Readers will note that conducting the meeting with the participants around the table however is for explanation only and not for limitation. In fact in some other embodiments the exemplary meeting may be conducted while the participants are in disparate locations using a conference call video conferencing virtual conference rooms with avatars of the participants and so on.

The meeting in the exemplary system of is guided by a meeting agenda . The meeting agenda of is a document that specifies the topics for discussion during the meeting . Each topic of the meeting agenda represents a theme of conversation among the participants . The meeting agenda of is often generated by the organizer of the meeting and electronic or paper copies of the meeting agenda may be provided to the participants before or during the meeting .

The exemplary system of also includes a computer adjacent to the participants in the meeting . The computer has installed upon it a signaling module that includes a set of computer program instructions for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. The signaling module operates generally for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for the meeting analyzing for each topic one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic receiving meeting discussions among meeting participants for the meeting identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion and rendering the correspondence indicator to participants of the meeting .

In many embodiments the level of correspondence between the meeting agenda and the discussions during the meeting may be useful beyond merely keeping the meeting discussions on the topics and schedule specified by the meeting agenda . For example an organization may desire to monitor the performance of individuals facilitating meetings for members of the organization. The signaling module may therefore also operate generally for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention by repeatedly recording the correspondence indictor throughout the meeting in a historical repository for further evaluation.

Often participants may not always discuss all of the topics specified in the meeting agenda during the meeting . At the end of the meeting therefore a report listing discussed and undiscussed topics may be useful. Accordingly the signaling module may also operate generally for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention by identifying the topics of the meeting agenda that were discussed during the meeting identifying the topics of the meeting agenda that were not discussed during the meeting and generating a report that specifies the topics of the meeting agenda that were discussed during the meeting and the topics of the meeting agenda that were not discussed during the meeting.

As mentioned above the signaling module uses keywords for the topics in the meeting agenda to determine the level of correspondence between the meeting agenda and the current meeting discussion. The signaling module analyzes one or more documents for each topic to identify the topic keywords for each topic. In the example of the documents are stored in a repository . The repository may be implemented as database on the computer or remotely accessible to the computer through a network. The documents of are documents that include content related to any of the topics in the meeting agenda . For example the documents may be implemented as reports or papers concerning a particular topic transcripts from previous meetings in which a particular topic was discussed presentations regarding a topic and so on.

In the exemplary meeting of the meeting discussions are implemented as voice utterances exchanged among participants . The signaling module of therefore receives meeting discussions among meeting participants for the meeting by receiving voice utterances of meeting participants through microphones . The microphones of are operatively coupled to the computer through wired or wireless data communications connections. The voice utterances of may be captured and digitized according to industry standard codecs including but not limited to those used for speech recognition as such. Methods for COding DECoding speech are referred to as codecs. The European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI provides several codecs for encoding speech for use in speech recognition including for example the ETSI ES 201 108 DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 050 Advanced DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 211 Extended DSR Front end Codec and the ETSI ES 202 212 Extended Advanced DSR Front end Codec. In standards such as RFC3557 entitled

Using the voice utterances of the participants the signaling module of may determine a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussion and the topic keywords for the current topic of the meeting by transcribing the voice utterances for the meeting into a current meeting transcription tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the current meeting transcription and determining the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency.

The signaling module of has installed upon it a speech engine useful for transcribing the voice utterances for the meeting into a current meeting transcription. The speech engine of is a functional module typically a software module although it may include specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and generating human speech. The speech engine of implements speech recognition by use of a further module referred to in this specification as an automated speech recognition ASR engine and the speech engine carries out speech synthesis by use of a further module referred to in this specification as a text to speech TTS engine. As shown in a speech engine may be installed locally with the signaling module in the computer but in some other embodiments the speech engine may be installed remotely with respect to the signaling module and accessed across a data communications network by the computer .

In the example of the signaling module renders the correspondence indicator to participants of the meeting through a lamp positioned in the center of the table and connected to the computer through a wired or wireless communication connection. That is in the correspondence indicator is implemented as the color of the light emitted from the lamp . For example when there is a strong correspondence between the meeting agenda and the current meeting discussion the lamp may emit a green light to signal to the participants that the meeting is on topic and on schedule. When there is a weak correspondence between the meeting agenda and the current meeting discussion the lamp may emit a red light to signal to the participants that the meeting is off topic and off schedule. Between the strong correspondence and the weak correspondence the lamp may emit a yellow light to signal to the participants that the meeting discussion may be drifting off topic or off schedule relative to the meeting agenda . Readers will note that the exemplary correspondence indicator and the exemplary manner of rendering the correspondence indicator to participants of the meeting through a lamp is for explanation only and not for limitation. The correspondence indicator may be implemented as text graphics colors sounds tactile indicators or any other indicators using any modes as will occur to those of skill in the art. The signaling module may render the correspondence indicator to participants using any number of peripherals or devices operatively coupled to the computer including for example speakers displays lamps and so on. One line of peripherals and devices that may be improved for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention may include the product line provided by Ambient Devices Inc.

The arrangement of hardware and software components making up the exemplary system illustrated in is for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to various embodiments of the present invention may include other components not shown and be configured in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

Signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with one or more computers that is automated computing machinery. For further explanation therefore sets forth a block diagram of automated computing machinery comprising an example of a computer useful in signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. The computer of includes at least one computer processor or CPU as well as random access memory RAM which is connected through a high speed memory bus and bus adapter to processor and to other components of the computer.

Stored in RAM of is a signaling module a set of computer program instructions capable of signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. The signaling module operates generally for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for the meeting analyzing for each topic one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic receiving meeting discussions among meeting participants for the meeting identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion and rendering the correspondence indicator to participants of the meeting. When the meeting discussions are implemented as voice utterances exchanged among participants the signaling module may transcribe the voice utterances for the meeting into a current meeting transcription used to determine the correspondence indictor for the meeting. The signaling module of utilizes a speech engine to transcribe the voice utterances .

Also stored in RAM is a speech engine . The speech engine of is a functional module typically a software module although it may include specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and generating human speech. The speech engine includes an ASR engine for speech recognition and a text to speech TTS engine for generating speech. The speech engine also includes grammars lexicons and language specific acoustic models .

The acoustic models associate speech waveform data representing recorded pronunciations of speech with textual representations of those pronunciations which are referred to as phonemes. The speech waveform data may be implemented as a Speech Feature Vector SFV that may be represented for example by the first twelve or thirteen Fourier or frequency domain components of a sample of digitized speech waveform. Accordingly the acoustic models may be implemented as data structures or tables in a database for example that associates these SFVs with phonemes representing to the extent that it is practically feasible to do so all pronunciations of all the words in various human languages each language having a separate acoustic model . The lexicons are associations of words in text form with phonemes representing pronunciations of each word the lexicon effectively identifies words that are capable of recognition by an ASR engine. Each language has a separate lexicon .

The grammars of communicate to the ASR engine the words and sequences of words that currently may be recognized. For precise understanding readers will distinguish the purpose of the grammar and the purpose of the lexicon. The lexicon associates with phonemes all the words that the ASR engine can recognize. The grammar communicates the words currently eligible for recognition. The set of words currently eligible for recognition and the set of words capable of recognition may or may not be the same.

Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful in voice servers according to embodiments of the present invention include UNIX Linux Microsoft Vista IBM s AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Operating system speech engine grammar analysis module grammar reliability table and background noises in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also for example on a disk drive .

Computer of includes bus adapter a computer hardware component that contains drive electronics for high speed buses the front side bus the video bus and the memory bus as well as drive electronics for the slower expansion bus . Examples of bus adapters useful in computers according to embodiments of the present invention include the Intel Northbridge the Intel Memory Controller Hub the Intel Southbridge and the Intel I O Controller Hub. Examples of expansion buses useful in computers according to embodiments of the present invention include Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI and PCI Extended PCI X bus as well as PCI Express PCIe point to point expansion architectures and others.

Computer of includes disk drive adapter coupled through expansion bus and bus adapter to processor and other components of the computer . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the computer in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters useful in computers include Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition non volatile computer memory may be implemented for a computer as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory so called EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example computer of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters in computers implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to display devices such as computer display screens as well as user input from user input devices such as keyboards and mice. The example computer of includes a video adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to a display device such as a display screen or computer monitor. Video adapter is connected to processor through a high speed video bus bus adapter and the front side bus which is also a high speed bus.

The exemplary computer of includes a communications adapter for data communications with other computers and for data communications with a data communications network . Such data communications may be carried out serially through RS 232 connections through external buses such as a Universal Serial Bus USB through data communications data communications networks such as IP data communications networks and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of communications adapters useful for testing a grammar used in speech recognition for reliability in a plurality of operating environments having different background noise according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications network communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications network communications.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. Signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention may be carried out by a signaling module installed on a computer.

The method of includes receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for a meeting. The signaling module of may receive the meeting agenda by receiving the meeting agenda or an identifier for the meeting agenda from the meeting organizer. When an identifier is received the signaling module of may then in turn retrieve the meeting agenda specified by the identifier from the local or remote storage area. The meeting organizer may specify or provide the meeting agenda to the signaling module through a user interface provided by the signaling module . In some other embodiments the meeting organizer may provide the meeting agenda or its identifier to the signaling module by sending an email that includes the meeting agenda or its identifier to an email address monitored by the signaling module .

The method of includes analyzing for each topic one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic. The documents of are documents that include content related to any of the topics in the meeting agenda . For example the documents may be implemented as reports or papers concerning a particular topic transcripts from previous meetings in which a particular topic was discussed and so on. Analyzing one or more documents to identify topic keywords for a topic allows the signaling module to identify topic keywords for the topic as the words in the documents that appear more frequently in the documents that relate to the topic relative to all of the documents that relate to all of the topics.

For each topic the signaling module may analyze one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic by identifying a first set of documents related to that topic and identifying a second set of documents related to the other topics. The first set of documents includes the documents related to the topic for which keywords are being identified and may be specified by the meeting organizer when the meeting agenda is specified. Similarly the second set of documents includes the documents related to the other topics and may also be specified by the meeting organizer when the meeting agenda is specified. The signaling module may then calculate a first frequency at which a particular word appears in the first set of documents and calculate a second frequency at which the particular word appears in both the first set of documents and the second set of document. In such a manner the first frequency represents the number of times a particular word is found in a subset of the documents and the second frequency represents the number of times a particular word is found in all of the documents . The signaling module may then designate the particular word as one of the topic keywords in dependence upon the first frequency and the second frequency. The signaling module may designate the particular word as one of the topic keywords by determining whether the difference between the first frequency and the second frequency exceeds a predetermined threshold and designating the particular word as one of the topic keywords if the difference between the first frequency and the second frequency exceeds the predetermined threshold. In some other embodiments the signaling module may designate the particular word as one of the topic keywords by determining whether the ratio of the first frequency to the second frequency exceeds a predetermined threshold and designating the particular word as one of the topic keywords if the ratio of the first frequency to the second frequency exceeds the predetermined threshold.

For further explanation consider an example in which a meeting agenda includes two topics Company Picnic Planning and Sales Presentation and in which a LastYearMeetingTranscript document relates to the Company Picnic Planning topic and three Customer reports relate to the Sales Presentation topic. In determining the topic keywords for the Company Picnic Planning topic the signaling module may select any words from any of the documents as the particular words that are candidates for topic keywords. Assume for example that the signaling module selects the words the and drinks. The word the appears in the LastYearMeetingTranscript document at an average rate of fifteen times per page and appears in all four documents at an average rate of sixteen times per page. The word drinks appears in the LastYearMeetingTranscript document at an average rate of twelve times per page and appears in all four documents at an average rate of two times per page. Because the difference or ratio between frequency of the in the LastYearMeetingTranscript document and of the in all of the documents represents that the word the is not utilized more or less in documents related to the Company Picnic Planning topic then the word the is not designated as a topic keyword. In contrast however because the difference or ratio between frequency of drinks in the LastYearMeetingTranscript document and of drinks in all of the documents represents that the word drinks is utilized much more in documents related to the Company Picnic Planning topic than the other documents then the word drinks is designated as a topic keyword for the Company Picnic Planning topic.

As part of analyzing one or more documents to identify topic keywords the signaling module of may store a particular word in a topic keyword field of a topic keyword table after designating the particular word as a topic keyword. The topic keyword table associates topics with one or more topic keywords. Each record of the topic keyword table includes a topic identifier field and a topic keyword field . The topic identifier field specifies a particular topic in the meeting agenda and the topic keyword field stores a topic keyword in associated with its corresponding topic.

The method of includes receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting. In the method of receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting includes receiving voice utterances for the meeting of participants. In meetings that occur at a single physical location the signaling module may receive voice utterances for the meeting of participants according to the method of through a microphone positioned at the physical location and may then digitize and encode the voice utterances using any codec as will occur to those of skill in the art. When meetings occur using a conference call video conferencing or the like the signaling module may receive voice utterances for the meeting of participants according to the method of through a direct connection with the conferencing hardware and may then digitize and encode the voice utterances using a codec. In some embodiments in which the conference occurs through a packet switched network as opposed to the circuit switched network the voice utterance may already be digitized encoded and packetized for distribution to the various participants in the meeting. In such an embodiment the signaling module may receive voice utterances for the meeting of participants according to the method of by retrieving copies of the packets and unencapsulating the digitized and encoded voice utterances from the packets.

The method of includes identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda . The current topic of represents the topic specified by the meeting agenda as the topic currently schedule for discussion. The meeting agenda may associate times with each topic or a particular order in which the topics are to be discussed during the meeting. In such a manner the signaling module may identify the current topic for the meeting according to the method of by comparing the current time with the times associated with each topic in the meeting agenda and selecting the topic associated with the current time. For example consider that an exemplary meeting agenda specifies that a meeting starts at two o clock in the afternoon the first topic is open for discussion for five minutes and the second topic is open for discussion for ten minutes. At 2 10 p.m. the signaling module may identify the current topic as the second topic specified the meeting agenda. Readers will note however that other ways of identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda may also be useful.

The method of also includes determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic . The correspondence indicator of specifies the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion. In the method of determining a correspondence indicator includes transcribing the voice utterances for the meeting into a current meeting transcription tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the current meeting transcription and determining the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency . The current meeting transcription of is a textual representation of the meeting discussions among the various participants in the meeting.

The signaling module may transcribe the voice utterances for the meeting into the current meeting transcription according to the method of by providing the voice utterances to a speech engine for speech recognition. The speech engine may use a Statistical Language Model SLM grammar to convert the speech to text. An SLM grammar provides to speech engine the words that currently may be recognized and maintains a set of training data used to assign a probability to a sequence of recognized words. A speech engine uses the SLM grammar to recognize the result of an utterance provided by a user. Consider for example an utterance consisting of the word sequence I am here. Using an SLM grammar a speech engine may recognize the utterance as any one of the following word combinations and may assign probabilities to each combination indicated in the table below 

The speech engine may estimate the probability of each word sequence by measuring the occurrence of the word order in a set of training data. Using the combination I am here for example the speech engine may compute both the number of times am is preceded by I and the number of times here is preceded by I am. Based on the probabilities assigned to each sequence of words the speech engine may return the recognition result as I am here because this combination of words has the highest probability based on the set of training data specified by the SLM grammar. Because estimating the probability for every possible word sequence is not practically feasible a SLM grammar may assign each word to a part of speech such as for example noun verb adjective adverb preposition and so on. A speech engine may then estimate the probability of each possible result by measuring the occurrence of the order in which the parts of speech appear in a set of test data. In the example of the signaling module may use the documents along with other documents such as for example transcripts from previous meetings as training data for the SLM grammar.

SLM grammars for use in signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention may be expressed in any format supported by a speech engine. An exemplary format may include the Stochastic Language Models N Gram Specification promulgated by the W3C. Using the SLM grammar for speech recognition advantageously allows the speech engine to recognize an unlimited number of word combinations thus allowing more robust signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention.

The signaling module may track a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the current meeting transcription according to the method of by determining the number of times that one of the topic keywords appears in the portion of the current meeting transcription representing the most recent meeting discussions in the meeting. The current meeting transcriptions may include timestamps that the signaling module uses to correlate meeting times with various portion of the transcript . For example consider that the keywords associated with the current topic include drinks and food. The signaling module may determine the number of times that the words drinks and food appear in the portion of the current meeting transcription that represents the most recent sixty seconds of the meeting discussions among participants.

The signaling module may determine the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency according to the method of by comparing the topic keyword frequency to a set of predetermined thresholds that relate to various correspondence indicators and selecting a correspondence indicator based on the comparison. For example consider that two thresholds for topic keyword frequency exist at values of ten and thirty and that three correspondence indicators are implemented using the colors red yellow and green. In such an example a topic keyword frequency at or below the threshold of ten may be associated with a correspondence indicator of red to signal that not many keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is weak. As such the signaling module may render the red color using a lamp or some other device as to alert the meeting participants that the discussion is off topic or off schedule.

Continuing with the example a topic keyword frequency between the threshold of ten and thirty may be associated with a correspondence indicator of yellow to signal that a fair number of keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is neither weak nor strong. As such the signaling module may render the yellow color using a lamp or some other device to signal the meeting participants that the discussion may be drifting towards becoming off topic or off schedule. Continuing with the example a topic keyword frequency at or above the threshold of thirty may be associated with a correspondence indicator of green to signal that many keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is strong. As such the signaling module may render the green color using a lamp or some other device to inform the meeting participants that the discussion is on topic and on schedule. Readers will note that the exemplary correspondence indicators above are for explanation only and not for limitation. In fact the correspondence indicators may be implemented in many other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art including for example text numbers graphics sounds colors tactile indicators and so on.

The method of includes rendering the correspondence indicator to the participants of the meeting. The manner in which the signaling module renders the correspondence indicator may often depend on the type of device used to communicate the correspondence indicator to the participants and how the device is connected to the signaling module . In some embodiments the device used to communicate the correspondence indicator to the participants may include a device such as those provided by Ambient Device Inc. In some other embodiments the device used to communicate the correspondence indicator to the participants may include a display used to render a graphical user interface GUI provided by the signaling module or some other software component. In addition to the manner described above readers will note that other ways of rendering the correspondence indicator to the participants of the meeting may also be useful.

The method of also includes identifying the topics of the meeting agenda that were and were not discussed during the meeting. The signaling module may identify the topics of the meeting agenda that were and were not discussed during the meeting according to the method of by determining the number of times the topic keywords for each topic appears in the portion of the current meeting transcription corresponding to the portion of the meeting devoted to that topic in the meeting agenda . When the number of times that the topic keywords for a particular topic appearing in that topic s portion of the current meeting transcription is below a predefined threshold then the signaling module may designate that topic as one of the topics not discussed in the meeting. When the number of times that the topic keywords for a particular topic appearing in that topic s portion of the current meeting transcription is at or above a predefined threshold then the signaling module may designate that topic as one of the topics that was discussed in the meeting.

The method of includes generating a report that specifies the topics of the meeting agenda that were discussed during the meeting and the topics of the meeting agenda that were not discussed during the meeting. The report may be implemented as two lists one list specifying the topics of the meeting agenda that were discussed during the meeting and the other list specifying the topics of the meeting agenda that were not discussed during the meeting. The signaling module may generate the report according to the method of electronically for display to the participants on a user interface provided by the signaling module or for electronic transmittal to the participants. In other embodiments the signaling module may generate the report according to the method of by printing the report on paper or some other medium as will occur to those of skill in the art for distribution to the participants.

The explanations above with reference to describe meetings in which the participants communicate via voice utterances. In some other embodiments the meeting participants may communicate during the meeting using other non voice modes such as for example text or instant messaging. For further explanation sets forth a network diagram illustrating a further exemplary system for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion for a meeting according to embodiments of the present invention. The meeting of is implemented using instant messaging. Instant messaging is a technology that facilitates near real time text based communication between two or more participants over a network.

In the example of the participants exchange instant messages through instant messaging clients installed on the devices utilized by the participants . In the example of participant utilizes a smart phone having instant message client installed upon it. Participant utilizes a laptop having instant message client installed upon it. Participant utilizes a personal digital assistance PDA having instant message client installed upon it. Each instant messaging client provides a GUI through which a participant may create a message for delivery to the instant messaging clients of other participants and through which a participant may view messages received from the instant messaging clients of other participants . Examples of instant messaging clients that may be improved for use according to embodiments of the present invention may include AOL Instant Messager AIM Google Talk iChat IBM Lotus Sametime ICQ and so on.

The instant message clients of distribute the instant messages to each other through an instant messaging server installed on the computer . The instant messaging server of may receive a message from one of the instant messaging clients and transmit the message to the other instant messaging clients stores instant messages exchanged between instant message clients manage participants instant message accounts control various aspects of the instant message clients and so on. Examples of instant messaging protocols useful in passing messages between the instant messaging clients and the instant message server may include Internet Relay Chat RC protocol the Microsoft Notification Protocol MSNP the Open System for CommunicAtion in Realtime OSCAR protocol and others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

In the exemplary system of the computer also has installed upon it a signaling module which is a set of computer program instructions for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and the meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. The signaling module operates generally for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for the meeting analyzing for each topic one or more documents in repository to identify topic keywords for that topic receiving meeting discussions among meeting participants for the meeting identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion and rendering the correspondence indicator to participants of the meeting .

As mentioned above the meeting discussions in the meeting of are implemented as instant messages exchanged among the participants . Accordingly the signaling module of receives meeting discussions among participants for the meeting by receiving instant messages of participants for the meeting . The signaling module may receive the instant messages by registering with the instant messaging server through an application programming interface API exposed by the server . The signaling module of may then utilize the instant messages among the participants to determine a correspondence indicator by tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the instant messages and determining the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency.

In the example of the computer having the instant messaging server installed upon it and the devices having the instant messaging clients installed upon them are connected together for data communications through the network . Specifically the computer is connected to the data communications network through wireline connection . The smart phone is connected to the data communications network through wireless connection . The laptop is connected to the data communications network through wireless connection . The PDA is connected to the data communications network through wireless connection .

The data communications network of is composed of a plurality of computers that function as data communications routers switches or gateways connected for data communications with packet switching protocols. Such a data communications network may be implemented with optical connections wireline connections or with wireless connections. Such a data communications network may include intranets internets local area data communications networks LANs and wide area data communications networks WANs . Such a data communications network may implement for example 

The arrangement of the devices and the data communications network making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers switches gateways other devices and peer to peer architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Data communications networks in such data processing systems may support many data communications protocols in addition to those noted above. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating a further exemplary method of signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention. As mentioned above signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion according to embodiments of the present invention may be carried out by a signaling module installed on a computer.

The method of is similar to the method of . That is the method of includes receiving a meeting agenda specifying one or more topics for a meeting analyzing for each topic one or more documents to identify topic keywords for that topic receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting identifying a current topic for the meeting in dependence upon the meeting agenda determining a correspondence indicator in dependence upon the meeting discussions and the topic keywords for the current topic the correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion and rendering the correspondence indicator to the participants of the meeting. The example of is also similar to the example of in that the example of includes a topic keyword table that associates keywords with particular topics using a topic identifier field and a topic keyword field .

In the method of receiving meeting discussions among participants for the meeting includes receiving instant messages for the meeting of participants. The signaling module may receive instant messages for the meeting of participants according to the method of by registering with an instant messaging server to receive the instant messages for the meeting. The signaling module may repeatedly poll the instant messaging server for new instant messages or wait for the instant messaging server to push the instant messages to the signaling module .

In the method of determining a correspondence indicator specifying the correspondence between the meeting agenda and the meeting discussion includes tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the instant messages and determining the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency . The signaling module may track a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the instant messages by determining the number of times that one of the topic keywords appears in the instant messages representing the most recent meeting discussions among participant in the meeting.

For example consider that the keywords associated with the current topic include drinks and food. The signaling module may determine the number of times that the words drinks and food appear in the instant messages that represents the most recent sixty seconds of the meeting discussions among participants. The explanation above describes tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the instant messages using topic keywords that consist of only one word each. Readers will note however that topic keywords may consist of multiple words or phrases. In such embodiments readers will note that tracking a frequency at which the topic keywords for the current topic appear in the instant messages may utilize a statistical language model to determine whether a phrase in the instant messages matches the topic keywords. The advantage of using a statistical language model is that the phrase need not be a precise match rather the phrase in the instant messages need merely by statistically similar to the topic keywords phrase.

The signaling module may determine the correspondence indicator in dependence upon the tracked frequency according to the method of by comparing the tracked frequency to a set of predetermined thresholds that relate to various correspondence indicators and selecting a correspondence indicator based on the comparison. For example consider that two thresholds for topic keyword frequency exist at values of twenty and fifty and that three correspondence indicators are implemented using the colors red purple and blue that are displayed on a portion of the instant messaging GUI rendered to each participant. In such an example a topic keyword frequency at or below the threshold of twenty may be associated with a correspondence indicator of red to signal that not many keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is weak. As such the signaling module may render the red color on the instant messaging client GUI s to alert the meeting participants that the discussion is off topic or off schedule.

Continuing with the example a topic keyword frequency between the threshold of twenty and fifty may be associated with a correspondence indicator of purple to signal that a fair number of keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is neither weak nor strong. As such the signaling module may render the purple color on the instant messaging client GUI s to signal the meeting participants that the discussion may be drifting towards becoming off topic or off schedule. Continuing with the example a topic keyword frequency at or above the threshold of fifty may be associated with a correspondence indicator of blue to signal that many keywords for the current topic are being detected in the current meeting discussions thereby indicating that the correspondence between the meeting agenda and meeting discussions is strong. As such the signaling module may render the blue color on the instant messaging client GUI s to inform the meeting participants that the discussion is on topic and on schedule. Readers will note that the exemplary correspondence indicators above are for explanation only and not for limitation. In fact the correspondence indicators may be implemented in many other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art including for example text numbers graphics sounds colors tactile indicators and so on.

The method of also includes repeatedly recording the correspondence indictor throughout the meeting in a historical repository for further evaluation because the level of correspondence between the meeting agenda and the discussions during the meeting may be useful beyond merely keeping the meeting discussions on the topics and schedule specified by the meeting agenda . For example an organization may desire to monitor the performance of individuals facilitating meetings for members of the organization. The historical repository may be implemented as tables in a database a structured document or some other data structure useful for archiving the correspondence indicators. The signaling module may repeatedly record the correspondence indictor throughout the meeting according to the method of by sampling the values representing the correspondence indicator a predetermined sampling rate and storing the sampled correspondence indicators in the historical repository with a timestamp. In such a manner other members of an organization or an organization s analysis software may determine how the meeting discussion throughout a meeting corresponded with the meeting s meeting agenda.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for signaling correspondence between a meeting agenda and a meeting discussion. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

