---

title: Methods and apparatus for robust slotted mode operation in fading wireless environments
abstract: Methods, devices and computer program products are disclosed that allow for wireless communication devices to operate more robustly in the slotted mode of operation in the event of network system loss. Specifically, present aspects require the wireless device to move to or remain in the slotted mode of operation as opposed to immediately entering into a system determination/acquisition mode upon failing to acquire an active set pilot during a slotted wake-up. By moving to the slotted mode of operation or providing for additional slotted-wake-ups, a number of attempts at acquiring the active set pilot can be performed before declaring the system as lost, thereby allowing for fading channel conditions to prevail without the need to re-acquire the lost system or otherwise acquire another system. Since the performance of the slotted mode is less power intensive than acquiring or re-acquiring a system, a substantial power savings is realized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08553728&OS=08553728&RS=08553728
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08553728
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081009
---
The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication networks and more particularly to systems methods and apparatus for providing wireless communication devices robust slotted mode operation in fading wireless environments.

Wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones portable computers and the like have rapidly gained in popularity over the past decade. These devices are increasingly becoming multifaceted devices capable of providing a wide range of functions. For example today s cellular telephone may also embody computing capabilities Internet access electronic mail text messaging GPS mapping digital photographic capability an audio MP3 player video gaming capabilities video broadcast reception capabilities and the like.

The multifaceted nature of wireless communication devices results in the devices being used more frequently and thus more power is consumed. Wireless communication devices are conventionally powered by a battery. The longer the battery stays charged the longer the user is able to utilize the wireless communication device without having to connect it to a recharger or otherwise replace the battery. While technological strides are being made to increase the power afforded to wireless device batteries and conserve the use of battery power so as to increase the performance time of the device the need continues to exist to make further improvements in this area.

When a wireless communication device is switched on but not actively engaged in communicating user data it typically operates in an idle mode. However the term idle mode is somewhat of a misnomer because while the wireless communication device resides in the idle mode the device performs various tasks that enable it to be ready for use either to initiate or receive a call. Specifically while in the idle mode the wireless communication device is constantly turning components and applications on and off on to perform vital functions and off again to conserve battery power.

The tasks that the wireless communication must perform while in idle mode are often specified by the standards within which the wireless communication is to operate. These mandatory tasks are rather power consuming because they involve the radio receiver.

Included within the mandatory tasks is the ability of the wireless communication device to wake periodically and turn on its radio receiver briefly to see if it has been paged which means to find out if there is an incoming call mobile termination call or a message. This periodic waking occurs on what is known as a slot cycle of a slotted mode. The purpose of the slot cycle is to permit the phone to keep the receiver turned off most of the time as a means of conserving battery life. When the wireless communication device first registers with a base station the base station and device determine which paging channel the device will use if there is more than one and what phase of the slot cycle that mobile will use. Thereafter the phone wakes periodically turns its receiver on briefly to see if it has an incoming call or if there is other traffic from the cell it must respond to and if there is nothing then it shuts the receiver down again and waits until the next slot time.

When an incoming call arrives at a base station for a given wireless communication device the phone system of the caller generates the sound of a phone ringing as a comfort tone back to the caller and the base station waits until the slot time for the called wireless communication device. When the slot occurs the cell sends a message to the wireless communication device telling it that there is an incoming call. This causes the device to waken and set up the call and to begin to ring. If the device doesn t respond to the page the cell may try again on the next slot. The advantage of a longer slot cycle is that the device spends a lower percentage of the time with its receiver on and thus the battery will last longer. It also means there is more capacity on the paging channel. The advantage of a shorter slot cycle is that the device gets more chances to receive the page and will receive the page sooner.

When the wireless communication device operates in the slotted mode the device first upon entering a slotted mode wake up attempts to acquire the active set pilot of the current system or cell that it is in communication with before it can decode the paging channel. If the wireless communication device fails to acquire the active set pilot during the slot the device declares the system as being lost and enters into the system determination state otherwise referred to as the system acquisition state. The system determination state provides for re acquiring the system that has been lost or acquiring another system cell. However as appreciated by those skilled in the art re acquiring or acquiring a system is power intensive operation that requires the receiver to remain operative for an extended period of time to tune to the proper frequency and such.

Field studies have shown that when a wireless communication system is lost by the wireless communication device in a high percentage of instances the device will re acquire the same system back that was lost within a relatively short period of time. This is generally believed to be due to the wireless communication device determining a short fade in which the signal strength deteriorates i.e. fades below an acceptable level for a short period of time before it strengthens to an acceptable level. Thus if the wireless device is configured to re acquire the system each time the device encounters a short fade during a slot wake up unnecessary battery power is consumed.

Therefore a need exists to improve the robustness of slotted mode operation to improve wireless communication device power consumption and thus improve standby time performance. In particular a need exists to improve slotted mode operation performance in instances in which the wireless communication device is determining fading or otherwise spotty coverage conditions.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Present aspects provide systems methods device and computer program products that allow for wireless communication devices to operate more robustly in the slotted mode of operation. Specifically present aspects require the wireless device to enter into or otherwise remain in the slotted mode for an extended period under fading channel conditions as opposed to immediately entering into a system determination acquisition mode upon experiencing a network system loss during any operational state or otherwise failing to acquire an active set pilot during a slotted wake up. By entering or remaining in the slotted mode for an extended period present aspects provide for performing slotted wake ups after determining a network system loss and prior to declaring the network system as being lost which means the device attempts to acquire the same or a different system cell. By providing for slotted mode operation before declaring the system as lost it allows for the device to operate in fading channel conditions without the need to re acquire the lost system or otherwise acquire another system. Since the performance of slotted mode operation is less power intensive than acquiring or re acquiring a system a substantial power savings is realized. Additionally an added benefit is that a higher probability of receiving a page on the paging channel exists during slotted mode operation then would be realized by requiring re acquisition or acquisition of the same or another system.

In one aspect a method is defined for initiating slotted mode operation of a wireless communication device. The method includes determining the occurrence a network system loss event and providing for slotted mode operation upon determining the network system loss event. The method further includes providing for a system acquisition state only if the slotted mode operation fails to acquire an active set pilot from the network system. The system acquisition state may provide for either attempting to re acquire the current network system or attempting to acquire a new network system different from the current network system.

In one aspect of the method determining the occurrence of the network system loss event is further defined as determining the failure to acquire the active pilot set during an initial slotted mode wake up. In such aspects providing for slotted mode operation is further defined as providing for one or more additional slotted mode wake ups wherein each additional slotted mode wake up attempts to acquire the active set pilot of the network system. In addition in such aspects providing for a system acquisition state further includes providing for a system acquisition state only if the one or more additional slotted mode wake ups fail to acquire the active set pilot.

In other aspects of the method determining the occurrence of the network system loss event further defines the network system loss event as an access state network system loss event a connected state network system loss event an acquisition state network system loss event an idle non slotted state network system loss event or any other operation state in which a network system loss may occur.

In one aspect of the method providing for slotted mode operation further includes providing for a predetermined number of slotted mode wake ups wherein each additional slotted mode wake up attempts to acquire the active set pilot of the network system. In other related aspects of the method providing for slotted mode operation further includes providing for providing for a predetermined time period for the slotted mode operation during which the active pilot set is attempted to be acquired.

In certain aspects of the method entering into slotted mode operation prior to entering system acquisition state may be predicated on various conditions being met. For example in one aspect the method may include determining one or more parameters related to current system signal strength prior to providing for slotted mode operation and or determining historical system loss data associated with the current system loss. In such aspects the method may include bypassing the slotted mode operation and providing for the system acquisition state after determining the network system loss event if the one or more parameters indicate a network system loss level of current signal strength or if the history of system loss indicates a need to acquire a new system.

At least one processor configured to provide for slotted mode operation of a wireless communication device provides for another related aspect. The processor includes a first module for determining the occurrence a network system loss event and a second module for providing for slotted mode operation upon determining the network system loss event. The processor additionally includes a third module for providing for a system acquisition state only if the slotted mode operation fails to acquire an active set pilot from the network system.

A further related aspect is provided for by a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to determine the occurrence a network system loss event and a second set of codes for causing the computer to provide for slotted mode operation upon determining the network system loss event. The medium also includes a third set of codes for causing the computer to provide for a system acquisition state only if the slotted mode operation fails to acquire an active set pilot from the network system.

An apparatus defines another related aspect of the innovation. The apparatus includes means for determining the occurrence a network system loss event and means for providing for slotted mode operation upon determining the network system loss event. The apparatus also includes means for providing for a system acquisition state only if the slotted mode operation fails to acquire an active set pilot from the network system.

Yet another aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The device also includes a slotted mode module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The slotted mode module is operable to provide for slotted mode operation based on an occurrence of a network system loss event. The device additionally includes a system acquisition module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The system acquisition module is operable to attempt to acquire the network system only if the slotted mode operation fails to acquire the active set pilot from the network system.

In one aspect of the device the slotted mode module may be further operable to determine the failure to acquire the active pilot set during an initial slotted mode wake up. In such aspects the slotted mode module may be further operable to provide for one or more additional slotted mode wake ups wherein each additional slotted mode wake up attempts to acquire the active set pilot of the network system. Additionally in such aspects the slotted mode module may be further operable to provide for the system acquisition state only if the one or more additional slotted mode wake ups fail to acquire the active set pilot.

In other described aspects of the wireless communication device the slotted mode module is further operable to provide for slotted mode operation based on an occurrence of an access state network system loss event a connected state network system loss event an acquisition state network system loss event an idle non slotted state network system loss event or the like.

In certain aspects of the wireless communication device the slotted mode module is further operable to provide for a predetermined number of slotted mode wake ups based on the occurrence of the network system loss event wherein each additional slotted mode wake up attempts to acquire the active set pilot of the network system. In other related aspects the slotted mode module is further operable to provide for a predetermined time period for the slotted mode operation during which the active pilot set is attempted to be acquired.

In other aspects the wireless communication device may include a signal strength monitoring module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The signal strength monitoring module is operable to monitor current signal strength. In such aspects the slotted mode module may be further operable to bypass the additional slotted mode wake ups and the system acquisition module may be further operable to attempt to acquire a system after the determination of a system loss if the signal strength monitoring module indicates an acceptable level of current signal strength.

In another aspect the wireless communication device may include a history of system loss database stored in the memory and in communication with the processor wherein the database is operable to store parameters related to system loss. In such aspects the slotted mode module may be further operable to bypass the additional slotted mode wake ups and the system acquisition module may be operable to attempt to acquire the system after the initial slotted mode wake up fails to acquire the active set pilot if the history of system loss indicates a need to acquire a system.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a wireless communication system with multiple base stations and multiple wireless communication devices such as can be utilized in conjunction with one or more aspects. A base station is generally a fixed station that communicates with the terminals and can also be called an access point a Node B or some other terminology. Each base station provides communication coverage for a particular geographic area or coverage area illustrated as three geographic areas in labeled and . The term cell can refer to a base station and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. To improve system capacity a base station geographic area coverage area can be partitioned into multiple smaller areas e.g. three smaller areas according to cell in and . Each smaller area can be served by a respective base transceiver subsystem BTS . The term sector can refer to a BTS and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. For a sectorized cell the BTSs for all sectors of that cell are typically co located within the base station for the cell. The slotted mode techniques described herein can be implemented for a system with sectorized cells as well as a system with un sectorized cells. Thus the term acquiring a system or re acquiring a system may refer to acquiring re acquiring a cell a sectorized cell or the like.

Wireless communication devices are typically dispersed throughout the system and each device can be fixed or mobile. Wireless communication devices can also be called a mobile terminal mobile station user equipment a user device or some other terminology. A wireless communication device can be a cellular phone smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless system . Each wireless communication device can communicate with zero one or multiple base stations on the downlink and uplink at any given moment. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations.

For a centralized architecture a system controller couples to base stations and provides coordination and control for base stations . For a distributed architecture base stations can communicate with one another as needed. Data transmission on the forward link often occurs from one access point to one access terminal at or near the maximum data rate that can be supported by the forward link and or the communication system. Additional channels of the forward link e.g. control channel can be transmitted from multiple access points to one access terminal. Reverse link data communication can occur from one access terminal to one or more access points.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of a wireless communication device configured for improved slotted mode operation according to present aspects. Wireless communication device includes a computer platform having a processor and a memory . Memory includes slotted mode module that is operable to provide for slotted mode operation based on the occurrence of a network system loss event. The network system loss event may occur during slotted mode operation idle non slotted mode operation access mode operation acquisition mode operation connected mode operation or the like. For example in slotted mode operation if the initial slotted wake up fails to acquire an active set pilot one or more additional slotted wake ups may be configured for the purpose of attempting to acquire an active set pilot as opposed to first attempting system acquisition or re acquisition. In other examples such as when network system loss is experienced during access mode operation acquisition mode operation connected mode operation or the like the network system loss prompts the slotted mode module to begin slotted mode operation as opposed to first attempting system acquisition or system re acquisition.

Memory also includes system acquisition module that is operable to attempt to acquire a network system either re acquiring the same system that the device previously communicated with or acquire a new system. In accordance with present aspects system acquisition module is only invoked after the predetermined duration of the slotted mode operation fails to acquire the active set pilot. In this regard after the system loss event the system acquisition module is not invoked but rather the device waits until one or more slotted wake ups occur and if no active set pilot is acquired during these slotted wake ups then the system acquisition module is invoked in an attempt to acquire a system.

By waiting to invoke the system acquisition module present aspects result in a more robust slotted mode operation that significantly reduces battery power consumption and thus increases standby time performance. This is because the system acquisition process which requires the wireless device receiver not shown in to be functioning for a relatively long period is a much more power intensive process than the slotted mode operation. Additionally in most instances in which the wireless device loses the network connection it is due to the fact that the wireless device is currently residing in a fading channel environment. Field tests have shown that in most instances if a system acquisition operation is conducted after the network system connection is lost the acquisition process generally re acquires the same system thus confirming the belief that the device was in a fading environment when the network system connection was lost. Moreover further field tests have shown that if slotted mode operation is implemented prior to invoking a system acquisition operation one if the slotted mode operation will result in acquisition of the active set pilot once again confirming the belief that the device was in a fading environment when the network system connection loss occurred.

Referring to depicted is a more detailed block diagram of a wireless communication device having improved slotted mode operation in accordance with present aspects. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate aspects. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs slotted mode module and system acquisition module stored in the memory of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include a counter a timer or any other subsystem used in conjunction the slotted mode module and or the system acquisition module.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the wireless device and wireless network. In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all correspondence between wireless communication device and other wired or wireless devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless network communication connection. In some aspects the communication module is operable for receiving messages such as call messages or the like received on the paging channel.

The memory of computer platform includes slotted mode module that is operable to provide for slotted mode operation based on the occurrence of a network system loss event. As previously noted the network system loss event may occur during any mode of operation such as slotted mode operation idle non slotted mode operation access mode operation acquisition mode operation connection mode operation or the like. In slotted mode operation the system loss event may occur during an initial slotted mode wake up otherwise referred to as a slot and if the initial slotted wake up fails to acquire an active set pilot the slotted mode module may be configured to provide for one or more additional slotted mode wake ups during which an active set pilot is attempted to be acquired prior to implementing a system acquisition process. In other aspects in which the system loss is acknowledged in other operation modes other than the slotted mode such as idle non slotted mode access mode acquisition mode connection mode or the like determination of network system loss provides for the slotted mode of operation to implement in attempt to acquire the active set pilot prior to implementing system acquisition processing.

Memory additionally includes system acquisition module operable to acquire a network system for the wireless device . In accordance with present aspects the system acquisition module is only invoked to acquire a system once the duration of the slotted mode of operation has failed to acquire the active set pilot.

In one aspect slotted mode module implements counter that is operable to count a predetermined number of slotted wake up cycles during which the active set pilot is attempted to be acquired. As such the system acquisition module is only invoked after all of the predetermined number of slotted wake ups have occurred. By way of example only the predetermined number of slotted wake up cycles may be defined as a number between one and ten and more specifically two to five additional slotted wake ups. Further discussion of aspects implementing a counter are described in relation to the flow diagram of infra.

In another aspect slotted mode module may implement a timer that is operable to account for a predetermined time period for slotted wake up cycles during which the active set pilot is attempted to be acquired. As such any number of slotted wake cycles may be provided for as long as the predetermined time period has yet to expire. In this regard the system acquisition module is only invoked after the predetermined time period has expired. The system acquisition module may be configured to be invoked immediately after the network system loss time period has expired assuming the device is not concurrently in the last of the additional slotted wake up cycles in which case the system acquisition module would be invoked at the completion of the slotted wake up. In alternate aspects the system acquisition module may be configured to be invoked after the slotted mode module attempts to wait for another slotted wake up. By way of example only the network system loss time period for additional slotted wake ups may be between approximately 5 seconds and approximately 20 seconds Further discussion of aspects implementing a timer are described in relation to the flow diagram of infra.

In alternate aspects the wireless device may be configured such that the need to conduct slotted wakes is bypassed in lieu of immediately proceeding with a system acquisition attempt. This is because the device may be able to assess that device is currently not in a fading channel environment historical data related to system loss may indicate the need to immediately provide for system acquisition processing or any other factor related to system acquisition processing and or slotted mode operation.

Thus in one alternate aspect memory may optionally include a signal strength monitoring module operable to monitor the current signal strength. In such aspect the slotted mode module may bypass the slotted mode operation or the need for additional slotted wake up cycles if the current signal strength is below a network system loss minimum threshold which would indicate that the signal strength is below a level indicative of a fading environment or above a network system loss maximum threshold which would indicate that the signal is above a level indicative of a fading environment. When operating below the network system loss minimum threshold slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles would likely not result in an acquisition of the active set pilot because the device is outside of the fading region. When operating above the network system loss threshold slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles would likely not result in an acquisition of the active set pilot because the failure to acquire the active set pilot is not related to signal strength i.e. some other factor or condition attributed to the failure to acquire the active set pilot .

In another alternate aspect memory may include a history of system loss database that is operable to store parameters and or conditions related to previous system loss events. For example the history of system loss database may identify certain geographic areas or zones in which although the device may or may not be in a fading environment in which attempts to acquire the active set pilot would likely be futile. If the wireless device is currently located in one of the identified geographic areas or zones the slotted mode module may bypass slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles and proceed to system acquisition processing. In addition other historical data related to previous system losses may be relied upon in determining whether to proceed with slotted mode operation or to bypass slotted mode operation and proceed with system acquisition processing.

Thus in one alternate aspect memory may optionally include a signal strength monitoring module operable to monitor the current signal strength. In such aspect the slotted mode module may bypass the slotted mode operation or the need for additional slotted wake up cycles if the current signal strength is below a network system loss minimum threshold which would indicate that the signal strength is below a level indicative of a fading environment or above a network system loss maximum threshold which would indicate that the signal is above a level indicative of a fading environment. When operating below the network system loss minimum threshold slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles would likely not result in an acquisition of the active set pilot because the device is outside of the fading region. When operating above the network system loss threshold slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles would likely not result in an acquisition of the active set pilot because the failure to acquire the active set pilot is not related to signal strength i.e. some other factor or condition attributed to the failure to acquire the active set pilot .

In another alternate aspect memory may include a history of system loss database that is operable to store parameters and or conditions related to previous system loss events. For example the history of system loss database may identify certain geographic areas or zones in which although the device may or may not be in a fading environment in which attempts to acquire the active set pilot would likely be futile. If the wireless device is currently located in one of the identified geographic areas or zones the slotted mode module may bypass slotted mode operation or additional slotted wake up cycles and proceed to system acquisition processing. In addition other historical data related to previous system losses may be relied upon in determining whether to proceed with slotted mode operation or to bypass slotted mode operation and proceed with system acquisition processing.

Additionally wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of the methodology for improving slotted mode operation in a wireless communication device according to aspects. In the illustrated aspect a system loss is determined while the device is operating in slotted mode operation. As such according to aspects additional slotted wake up cycles may be implemented in an attempt to acquire the active set pilot prior to attempting system acquisition re acquisition. It should be noted that in other aspects the network system loss may be determined during other operational modes such as access mode acquisition mode idle non slotted mode connection mode and the like. Additionally in the illustrated aspect a counter is used to determine whether the maximum allowable additional slotted wake ups have been encountered prior to invoking the system acquisition module. At Event the wireless communication which is in the slotted mode of idle mode operation enters a slotted wake up period otherwise referred to as a slot . At Decision a determination is made as to whether an active set pilot has been acquired during the slotted wake up. If an active set pilot is acquired during the slotted wake up then at Event the wireless communication device decodes messages on the paging channel or conducts other actions associated with the slotted wake up period.

If an active set pilot is unable to be acquired during the slotted wake up at Event the counter is incremented by one to indicate the number of consecutive slotted wake ups in which the active set pilot has not been acquired. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the maximum number of slotted wake ups has occurred. This determination is conducted by comparing the number indicated in the counter with a network system loss number of slotted wake ups. If the maximum number of slotted wake ups has yet to be equaled at Event the wireless communication device waits for the next wake up period and at Event once the wake period ensues enters into the next slotted wake up.

If as determined at Decision the maximum number of slotted wake ups has occurred then at Event the wireless device attempts to acquire a network system. As previously noted the device may re acquire the same system that has just been lost or acquire a different system than the system lost. The system may be another cell or cell segment within a communication network or another network altogether. Once the attempt to acquire a system is completed at Event the counter is reset to indicate zero and the process returns to Event and the wireless communication device waits for the next wake up period.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of the methodology for improving slotted mode operation in a wireless communication device according to aspects. In the illustrated aspect a system loss is determined while the device is operating in slotted mode operation. As such according to aspects additional slotted wake up cycles may be implemented in an attempt to acquire the active set pilot prior to attempting system acquisition re acquisition. It should be noted that in other aspects the network system loss may be determined during other operational modes such as access mode acquisition mode idle non slotted mode connection mode and the like. Additionally in the illustrated aspect a timer is used to determine whether the additional slotted wake ups can be provided for prior to invoking the system acquisition module. At Event the wireless communication which is in the slotted mode of idle mode operation enters a slotted wake up period otherwise referred to as a slot . At Decision a determination is made as to whether an active set pilot has been acquired during the slotted wake up. If an active set pilot is acquired during the slotted wake up then at Event the wireless communication device decodes messages on the paging channel or conducts other actions associated with the slotted wake up period.

If an active set pilot is unable to be acquired during the slotted wake up at Decision a determination is made as to whether the slotted wake up timer has expired. If the slotted wake time has not expired at Event the wireless communication device waits for the next wake up period and at Event once the wake period ensues enters into the next slotted wake up.

If as determined at Decision the slotted wake up timer has expired then at Event the wireless device attempts to acquire a network system. As previously noted the device may re acquire the same system that has just been lost or acquire a different system than the system lost. The system may be another cell or cell segment within a communication network or another network altogether. Once the attempt to acquire a system is completed at Event the timer is reset to and the process returns to Event and the wireless communication device waits for the next wake up period. It should be noted that the reset of the timer can occur at other stages in the flow such as after waiting for the wake up slot to occur or after completion of the initial slotted wake up period.

At Event a system acquisition state is provided only if the allotted slotted mode operation fails to acquire the active set pilot. In certain aspects the system acquisition process may re acquire the previous system and in other aspects a different system may be acquired.

Additionally in alternate aspects one or more determinations may be accomplished prior to providing for the slotted mode operation. Such aspects may be beneficial in those instances in which it is determined that it is more beneficial to immediately re acquire or acquire a system than it would be wait for re acquiring or acquiring the system after an extended slot mode.

For example one or more parameters related to current system signal strength may be determined prior to providing for the slotted mode operation. In such aspects the method may include bypassing the slotted mode operation and providing for the system acquisition state after the system loss has been acknowledged if the one or more parameters indicate a predetermined level of current signal strength. The predetermined level of signal strength may indicate that the signal strength is strong enough that any failure to acquire the active set pilot is not attributable to a fading signal condition or the signal strength may be weakened beyond a fade condition such that repeated attempts at acquiring the active set pilot would be highly improbable of succeeding.

In another example the method may include maintaining a history of system loss database and determining the history of system loss prior to providing for the slotted mode of operation. In such aspects the method may further include bypassing the slotted mode operation and providing for the system acquisition state after the determination of a network system loss event if the history of system loss indicates a need to acquire or re acquire a system.

In network network device such as a network server can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN . Further a network database storage device may be in communication with network device via the wired network . Network device may receive and or generate and communicate communication data packets such as SMS message data packets to and from the wireless communication devices . Network device and database may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device and database communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

At transmitter system traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source which includes the codebook of present aspects to a transmit TX data processor . In some aspects each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data. In some aspects TX data processor applies beam forming weights to the symbols of the data streams based upon the user to which the symbols are being transmitted and the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted. In some aspects the beam forming weights may be generated based upon channel response information that is indicative of the condition of the transmission paths between the access network and the access terminal. The channel response information may be generated utilizing CQI Channel Quality Indicator information or channel estimates provided by the user. Further in those cases of scheduled transmissions the TX data processor can select the packet format based upon rank information that is transmitted from the user.

The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. BPSK QSPK M PSK or M QAM selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor . In some aspects the number of parallel spatial streams may be varied according to the rank information that is transmitted from the user.

The modulation symbols for the data streams are provided to a TX MIMO processor which may further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor provides NT symbol streams to NT transmitters TMTR through . In some aspects TX MIMO processor applies beam forming weights to the symbols of the data streams based upon the user to which the symbols are being transmitted and the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted from that users channel response information.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. NT modulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from NT antennas through respectively.

At receiver system the transmitted modulated signals are received by NR antennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor then receives and processes the NR received symbol streams from NR receivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide the rank number of detected symbol streams. The processing by RX data processor is described in further detail below. Each detected symbol stream includes symbols that are estimates of the modulation symbols transmitted for the corresponding data stream. RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at transmitter system .

The channel response estimate generated by RX processor may be used to perform space space time processing at the receiver adjust power levels change modulation rates or schemes or other actions. RX processor may further estimate the signal to noise and interference ratios SNRs of the detected symbol streams and possibly other channel characteristics and provides these quantities to a processor . RX data processor or processor may further derive an estimate of the effective SNR for the system. Processor then provides estimated channel information CSI which may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. For example the CSI may comprise only the operating SNR. The CSI is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to transmitter system .

At transmitter system the modulated signals from receiver system are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to recover the CSI reported by the receiver system. The reported CSI is then provided to processor and used to 1 determine the data rates and coding and modulation schemes to be used for the data streams and 2 generate various controls for TX data processor and TX MIMO processor .

At the receiver various processing techniques may be used to process the NR received signals to detect the NT transmitted symbol streams. These receiver processing techniques may be grouped into two primary categories i spatial and space time receiver processing techniques which are also referred to as equalization techniques and ii successive nulling equalization and interference cancellation receiver processing technique which is also referred to as successive interference cancellation or successive cancellation receiver processing technique .

A MIMO channel formed by the NT transmit and NR receive antennas may be decomposed into Nindependent channels with N min N N. Each of the Nindependent channels may also be referred to as a spatial subchannel or a transmission channel of the MIMO channel and corresponds to a dimension.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Thus aspects are provided for systems methods devices and computer program products that allow for wireless communication devices to operate more robustly in the slot mode of operation. Specifically present aspects require the wireless device to move to or remain in the slotted mode for an extended period under fading channel conditions as opposed to immediately entering into a system determination acquisition mode upon determining a network system loss event. By moving to or remaining in the slotted mode for an extended period present aspects provide for performing slotted wake up cycles or additional cycles after acknowledgement of a network system loss event and prior to declaring the system as being lost and acquiring the same or a different system cell. The slotted mode operation allows for attempts at acquiring the active set pilot before declaring the system as lost thereby allowing for fading channel conditions to prevail without the need to re acquire the lost system or otherwise acquire another system. Since the performance of slotted mode operation is less power intensive than acquiring or re acquiring a system a substantial power savings is realized.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

