---

title: Showing uncertainty of location
abstract: The subject matter of this specification can be embodied in, among other things, a computer-implemented method that includes identifying one or more previous locations for a mobile electronic device; identifying a plurality of possible travel routes for the mobile electronic device; determining possible locations for the mobile electronic device along the possible travel routes based on determined travel speed information for areas near the previous locations; and providing information for one or more indications of the possible locations to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560236&OS=08560236&RS=08560236
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08560236
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This document describes systems and techniques for locating items such as mobile communication devices belonging to individuals.

Location location location. Those are the three most important words in real estate and they are key to many other endeavors also. For example anyone who watches high tech spy shows understands how important it is to know the location of the bad guys. Often the bad guy is being tracked by satellite and ducks into a building or drives under an overpass before disappearing for good. In real life police may wish to locate kidnapping victims such as in an Amber Alert emergency. In less dire situations someone may wish to find the location of an acquaintance such as if the acquaintance is lost or if they intended to meet up with the acquaintance and the acquaintance is late.

This document describes systems and techniques for locating people or other items. The systems and techniques for example may identify a last known location for a person by identifying a last reported location and time from a mobile device such as a smartphone that is associated with the person. Various other prior locations may also be identified as may velocity information e.g. by computing the time between two identified locations snapping to a roadway that connects the locations and computing a length along the roadway to determine a likely heading and speed of the person. For example law enforcement may use a GPS signal from a child s cell phone to locate a missing child. A map of roadways in the area around the last known location may then be consulted and likely possible speeds along each roadway may be determined such as by the type of roadway e.g. highways may be assumed to involve 65 mph or under operation while city streets may be assumed to involve 45 mph or under operation and or using real time traffic speed data. Using the last known time and location the velocity information and the mapping and traffic information a system may compute a zone in which the person may be located. Such a zone can be computed for a variety of scenarios and an indicator of a likelihood that the person is in each area may also be provided. For example zones may be computed for different possible driving speeds e.g. below the speed limit at the speed limit and above the speed limit and designators of likelihoods that the person is in each zone can be determined.

Other features may also be provided with the systems and techniques here. In some implementations users can opt in to affirmatively agree to the system choosing who has access to location information. For example in computing zones in which a person or other item e.g. a stolen car might be located the system may take into account determined rules of human behavior. In one situation a user may lose his own GPS connection while driving and want to determine his likely possible locations. For example rules may be established for how often a driver turns left or right or goes straight when presented with an intersection. Also rules may indicate that drivers in a neighborhood will trend toward a thoroughfare such as a highway so a model of such behavior may be consulted in presenting to a user zones in which a person or other item may be expected to be found. Moreover particular goals of a tracked person may be input such as a likely destination for the person. In situations where law enforcement are tracking a missing child the fact that a kidnapper may be a flight risk may also be input. Such goals may be incorporated into a computation of zones in which the person is likely to be found e.g. a flight risk may be more likely to be found in a path heading toward an airport or an international border .

In a first general aspect a computer implemented method is described. The method can comprise identifying one or more previous locations for a mobile electronic device identifying a plurality of possible travel routes for the mobile electronic device determining possible locations for the mobile electronic device along the possible travel routes based on determined travel speed information for areas near the previous locations and providing information for one or more indications of the possible locations to a user.

In a second general aspect a computer implemented method is described. The method includes an interface configured to receive location information indicating a last known location of a mobile device and a time of the location map storage containing geographic information near the last known location a route analyzer to determine one or more future possible locations of the mobile device using the last known location of the and the geographic information in the map storage and a display generator for generating information for communicating graphically or audibly the one or more future possible locations of the mobile device.

In still another general aspect a computer implemented system is described. The system includes an interface configured to receive location information indicating a last known location of a mobile device and a time of the location map storage containing geographic information near the last known location a route analyzer to determine one or more future possible locations of the mobile device using the last known location of the and the geographic information in the map storage and generating information for communicating graphically or audibly the one or more future possible locations of the mobile device.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Referring to the mobile device shown graphically as a car representing the last known location of the mobile device . Previously known locations of the device are shown in prior locations along a roadway . As shown in this example the roadway is I 294 in Pittsburgh Pa. The device has since disappeared the signal being lost because the mobile device has driven through a tunnel shown here as the Fort Pitt Tunnel and has not since reappeared.

In the figure various areas are predetermined to be areas in which the device could be located at some time after it disappears or the time after its last known location termed here a zone of possibility and areas in which it would be very unlikely to be located termed here improbable areas . For example the roadway passes through the tunnel and across an improbable area here shown as the Monongahela River an improbable area because cars typically do not travel off of ordinary roadways.

In contrast the zone of possibility shows the possible locations of the mobile device . The zone of possibility may be computed as explained in more detail below by determining all possible routes of travel in an area around the last known location and applying a maximum speed for the device along each route from the time of the last known location to the time at which the location of the device is to be estimated. The zone of possibility may thus represent an envelope within which the device will almost surely be found.

Within the zone of possibility various likely areas are shown as areas in which the mobile device can likely travel given the length of time between the last transmission and the time at which likely location is to be determined. Shown here the smallest likely area is the traffic based travel area which is the distance the mobile device has likely traveled given the length of time between the last transmission and the current known traffic conditions of the roadway . The other areas may in one example be likely outer edges of travel for times in the future such as distance computed for 5 minute increments in time. Such curves can thus provide an indication of where the device is and will be.

Alternatively or in addition the areas may each represent probabilities that the mobile device has traveled to a particular location. Here each line shows probabilities at speeds above and below the distance for the traffic speed . In particular to determine a curve representing a probability that a car has traveled a certain distance the roadways available to a traveler can be modeled as a tree where each intersection or decision point for a traveler is modeled as a node and the root for the tree is the traveler s last known location. To compute likely distances a system can traverse the tree using various speeds e.g. which can be expressed as percentages of normal or maximum speeds for each road segment between each node until the elapsed time between the last known location of a device and the current time or a selected future time has expired. The union of all such computed terminus points can represent a line or curve of equal likelihood that can be displayed on a map to a user in a display that would look something like the curved lines shown in .

To determine speeds for device prior speeds for the device may be computed by measuring the time and distance between location location and the location of device at its last known location. Those speeds may be compared to nominal traffic speeds in such locations e.g. as a percentage of posted speeds or as a percentage of currently observed mean traffic speeds and such percentage may be applied to speeds on other roadways in front of the last known location to determine a most likely distance along each roadway that the device has traveled by a selected time. Such a distance may be represented by location the middle line in this example. Other speeds such as at certain percentage levels above and below the most likely speeds may be applied to the possible road segments in order to generate the other locations and which may be considered to be less likely because they differ from the speed at which the device was traveling before it disappeared either as an absolute speed or as a speed relative to the speed of other traffic .

The particular locations have been smoothed here between the particular roadways to provide a smoother appearance to the display. In reality the locations would literally follow only the available roadways though visual observation of such road by road progress may provide a less pleasing way to understand where a vehicle might be located. Nonetheless certain interfaces may be provided for displaying information such as that shown here including by showing zones of likelihood by for example painting roadways in an area in appropriate colors. For example roadways closest to a last known location could be painted red to show that it is very likely the device is located somewhere along those roadways whereas roadways father from the last known location may be shown in other colors.

Other factors may also be used in determining the likelihood that the device is in a particular area or location. For example if the device has been determined to be in a vehicle on a roadway a maximum possible speed may be determined for the device and a map encompassing the area for the maximum possible speed may be retrieved. Various roadways in the area may then be identified along with possibilities that the device may be in those areas. As explained above and below for instance a likelihood value may be applied to an area based on the speed above normal that a device would need to achieve in order to get to the area in a certain amount of time. For example normal speeds may be computed for each roadway segment such as by reference to known speed limit or to real time traffic speed information and various locations within a zone of possibility for the device may be identified. For each location the speed needed to reach the locations may be determined as a function of the normal determined speed. The likelihood of the device being at that location may then be determined as an inverse of such speeds.

The additional areas e.g. locations can also be identified within the zone of possibility based on behavioral information. For example it is generally unlikely that a person will suddenly change direction entirely. Thus areas in front of the last determined travel direction for a device can be favored over direction behind. A particular geometric shape can be used to represent such likelihood of travel such as a teardrop shape ellipse or a circle. In addition observed actions by drivers may also be determined. For example general behavioral research on traffic flow may show that users turn right a certain percentage of the time when faced with a choice. Likewise travel level data may also shown that a certain percentage of cars at a particular intersection turn right. Such statistics may be applied when determining the likely current location of a mobile computing device e.g. smartphone or vehicle navigation system and related vehicle.

As another example of information that can be used to determine a probability that a device is in a particular area a user can have traveled a path previously so that the likelihood of the user taking the same path is increased in a model for computing possibilities. For example the device can have transmitted data from previous periods of travel. If such data is available the previous history can be available to determine likely paths for the device to travel along the roadway . As one particular example a user of a device can take a specific path to school every day. Data from previous trips can be used to calculate the probability that the user is taking the same path and the speeds at which the user travels that path to school.

In another implementation the data can be provided from a source outside of the mobile device . If the owner of the device is a student on a city bus it is likely that the student takes this path on a daily basis. The path of the bus may follow previous speeds and locations providing a history to increase the likelihood of the device to be in a specific area. Other similar uses may also be analyzed to provide better estimates of a device s current location.

In a similar manner movement information from other devices may also be used to infer a current or future location of device . For example if analysis of locations show movement that is common with that of other devices it may be inferred that the device is in the same vehicle e.g. a bus or train with the other devices and the locations of those devices may be used as a basis for inferring a location of device .

The probability that a device will be at a particular location among the possible locations since its last known location can also be determined through the contacts of the owner of the mobile device . For example the location of the user s home as well as those of relatives and friends can be used to increase the probability that a device will travel along the path toward one of those locations. In one implementation the locations of various known homes can act as magnets creating a stronger pull for the device in those directions. Additionally some locations can have stronger pulls for the device than others such as the owner s home as compared to the owner s cousin s home. In another example the pull of a location can be stronger depending on the time of the calculation. If the owner is often at school during the calculation the school can have a stronger pull than the owner s home. Such pull forces may be represented as weightings to be used in determining a likelihood score for various possible locations in which a device may be located.

The probability of a device traveling in a specific direction can also be dependent on the current situation of the owner of the device . If the owner is trying to reach a specific location a user seeking to locate the owner can input that location to display the paths the device would most likely take. For example a calendar for the owner of the device may be accessed and a location of an appointment for the owner around the time of last contact may be used to weight the likely locations toward the location of the appointment. In an alternative example if the owner of the device is attempting to evade the police and is near a border the paths on the roadway the device can take to the border can be calculated as having a higher probability.

As mentioned above the travel direction of the device e.g. as determined by the direction the device traveled between two reporting points before its last known location can have a substantial effect on the predicted locations for the device. Such a direction can be determined as an angle between the last two known locations of the device or between the last several known locations. Likewise if the last reported location is determined to be on a roadway e.g. by comparing the device locations to roadways on commercially available mapping data the device can be presumed to be traveling along the roadway in the general direction indicated by the last two reported locations. For example if the last reported location is SSE of the second to last reported location and the device is determined to be on an E W roadway the direction of the device can be presumed to be East. In contrast if the device is on a N S roadway the direction of the device can be presumed to be South.

The locations to be predicted by the features shown here may be a current location a prior location or a future location. For example a user may wish to determine the likelihood of a location for device in a time period in the future even if the device is still broadcasting its current location e.g. so as to move ahead and meet the owner of the device and to have an idea of the probability that the device can be intercepted if the interception occurs at a particular location . For example the user may want to determine where a device will travel in the next 10 minutes so as to be able to meet the owner of the device . Alternatively the user may wish to determine the likelihood of locations in various time intervals given the present location. For example a user may need to determine the likely travel time for a user to prepare dinner at the correct time. In another embodiment the user may wish to input a time period to determine the likelihood of a device being in a location at that future period in time using the current travel location direction and speed of the device .

Using the travel location direction and speed a mode of transportation can also be determined. For example if a device is moving along a public transportation corridor such as a rail line the device can be assumed to be on a train. If the device is moving quickly along a highway the device can be assumed to be located inside a vehicle such as a car truck or bus. The device can further be assumed to be inside a bus if its motions match those of other devices. If the speed and location of the device does not match roadways or speeds match that of a human powered vehicle the device can be assumed to be located on a vehicle such as a skateboard or a bicycle. The mode of transportation can be used to determine future actions of the device along with presumed speeds for the device .

The mobile device can be tracked according e.g. to the techniques just described at various times for various reasons. For example the locations for a device may be determined in response to a user request such as a request from law enforcement personnel or a friend of the person who owns the device . Alternatively predicted locations may be determined automatically whenever a device fails to report a location for a particular period or as the result of some other similar event.

The various concepts described here and shown in can be displayed graphically to a user requesting a location of device . For example a GUI on an apparatus such as a computer can display a similar representation to the representation shown in . In such an interface the device can be shown as a car driving on a roadway or as another mode of transportation that is consistent with the speed the device e.g. pedestrian bus train plane etc. .

The area in which the device travels can also be displayed in various styles other than those shown here. For example the roadway or roadways on which the device travels can be displayed as a street map. Alternatively the area can be displayed using a satellite map. In another implementation the area can be displayed using a traffic map. The area can also be displayed using a hybrid of maps such as a combination of a satellite map and a street map. The display method can be chosen by the user or alternatively be determined according to the associated display device. Also different levels of detail may be displayed to a user such as by showing only major roadways in a zone of possibility .

The different predicted areas for a device s location may also be displayed in various manners. For example locations calculated based on speeds that are below the legal limit within the legal limit and above the legal limit can be displayed as a temperature map where different speeds or likelihoods are displayed in a different color with the colors changing relatively smoothly with changes in probabilities. In addition the zone of possibility can be displayed with a marking associated with the probability of travel at illegal speeds.

As time continues after a map is initially displayed showing likely locations for device calculations used to create a display such as that shown in can be refreshed and updated. In some implementations new calculations can be generated and displayed on a periodic basis. For example the periodic basis may be short enough that the display is animated such that the lines showing predicted probabilities move slowly outward from the last known location for the device . In other implementations the user can choose to generate new calculations to be displayed. In still other implementations a new location reported by the device can trigger a new calculation and new display such that the likely locations of the device are reset as the actual observed location and predicted locations are then computed from that last known location. Thus for instance where a device reports its location infrequently predicted locations may be repeatedly determined between each successive reporting of location and the system may be reset each time a location is reported.

At an initial step the process receives a loss of signal LOS indication. For example a mobile device can travel through a tunnel and the mobile device s signal cannot be received. The LOS indication may be explicit in that a system may report to the process when a particular device has stopped reporting its location. The LOS may also be implicit such as when a device fails to report its location within a predetermined time period.

The process then receives a request for location. For example a user e.g. a law enforcement officer may want to learn the location of another user. The first user may provide to the process an identifier for the second user and may use that information to request information showing estimates or predictions of the second user s current or future location.

The process then identifies a last vector for the second user. For example locations such as the previously known locations in can be used in conjunction with the mobile device s last transmission in order to determine the speed and direction of the mobile device around the time of its last transmission of location data. As one example a prior reported location may have been 5 miles due West of the last known location and may have been reported 5 minutes before the reporting of the last known location. In such a situation the vector for the device may be computed to be that of travel due East at 60 miles per hour.

Possible routes are then identified . For example information regarding the roadways in the direction of travel of the device as determined from the computed vector may be determined for a zone of possibility. As one example the zone of possibility may first be determined to produce a bounded box for a geographic area in which a device may be located and such a bounded box may be submitted to a geographic information service such as the Google Maps service to obtain roadway information in the area. The roadways in the area may then be modeled by a tree structure moving away from the last known location i.e. with the last known location as a root so that each intersection represents possible directions the device may have gone and thus is represented by a node having multiple branches in the model. Each branch of the tree may be assigned a distance i.e. the distance of the particular road segment and a speed e.g. a speed limit for the segment or real time traffic speed from for example a commercial service that tracks traffic speeds .

Maximum and steady state distances for each route permutation may then be computed. Maximum distance may be computed by applying a maximum speed for a vehicle for each segment e.g. 200 percent of the speed limit for the elapsed time between a time of a last known position and a time for which a likelihood of location is to be computed. Steady state distances may be other distances below a maximum distance which may be computer for other than maximum speeds such as 100 percent of the speed limit 150 percent of the speed limit 20 percent above current traffic speed etc.

In the example discussed here each branch in the tree model may be traversed at the relevant speed for that branch e.g. at some percentage of the speed limit for the road segment until travel times for all branches are determined and terminal distances for each branch are also determined. The union of all the terminal distances for a particular speed or a group of speeds if the speeds for different segments are different and for a particular elapsed time will represent distances of common likelihood like the locations in . Such a group of points may be termed a likely location box or a line of equal likelihood of location.

At box a display of location limits is generated and provided to a user. The display may include graphical mapping information such as that obtained from a commercial mapping service that is overlaid with graphical indicators of a location or locations for a device being tracked. The display may take a form similar to the schematic information shown in or may take a variety of other forms.

In one implementation information for a location of a user other that the user being tracked may be displayed including along with information about the user being tracked . For example a law enforcement officer may be tracking a criminal whose signal has disappeared and may be provided with a display like that shown in . In addition a system generating the display could also show future locations for the officer herself. Such locations may be determined by capturing e.g. via GPS the officer s current location and extrapolating a future location such as by using the officer s current speed or percentage of current speed relative to the speed limit or relative to current average traffic speed around the officer . A future path for the officer may be computed so as to create an intersection with a likely future location of the criminal. Because the officer may control her own speed the curves denoting future locations for the officer may relate to elapsed times to certain locations rather than to probabilities. The times may be updated as the officer travels e.g. either at a higher than expected or lower than expected speed . In this manner the officer will be able to see in real time the expected time at which he will intercept the criminal or at least enter a zone in which it is likely that the criminal still is located. Various additional applications of the features discussed above may also be employed.

The location server receives the last location at box . The location server may include for example one or more servers that are part of an online information provider such as Google that are configured to make computations and determinations regarding a likely location of a device after its last reported location such as in the manners described above. In some implementations the location server can convert the location from coordinates to a street address for display purposes. For example the location server can translate the coordinates 42 49 55.44 N 78 47 49.84 W to the street address 234 Tampa Drive Buffalo N.Y. 14220 .

The location server then identifies the last vector for the mobile device including speed and direction. In some implementations the location server can take previously known locations and compute the speed and direction of the mobile device using the time and location differences between or among those locations. In other implementations the mobile device can also transmit current speed and traveling direction to the location server with its location or to the data server .

At some point the client can initiate a request for location box to the location server . When a request is received the location server can identify possible routes using the last known vector. In addition the request from the client may trigger the location server to obtain the location information from the data server so that such information need not be transferred to the location server until there is a need for such information . Such a request may also require a certain level of authentication so as protect the privacy of the user whose last known location is being sought e.g. enforcing a system that grants access only by permission of the user or court order .

With the information concerning the user s last known locations the location server can compute maximum and steady state distances for each route permutation box . In certain implementations the location server can incorporate data from outside sources such as traffic patterns prior location history and locations of a user s home or homes of relatives and friends.

The location server then generates data e.g. mark up code for creating a display of the location limits box and for generating a map with the limits and sends the data to the client . The location limits may include for example a single curve or a grouping of curves showing a likelihood that a device is at particular locations in a geographic area.

The client then receives the data for a display box and provides the display for review by a user such as in a web browser. In some implementations the display may be a graphical representation of the various likely locations superimposed on a street map with the likely locations shaded to show the differences in likelihood for each zone or the likely locations at different times. Alternatively the display may be a graphical display including animation of the likely locations refreshed from the location server frequently enough to provide the user with fresh data. In still other implementations the display may be text based.

The location server uses a variety of components to predict the location of a mobile device such as a location coordinate translator a route analyzer a distance analyzer and a display generator as well as a map data source a speed data source and a user data source .

The location coordinate translator can receive location information associated with a device and translate the location information into a preferred format. As discussed further below the location coordinate translator can also determine a last vector for the device. The route analyzer can receive the last vector for the mobile device and calculate possible locations based on the speed and direction of the mobile device . The distance analyzer can narrow the possible locations that the mobile device may be to the likely locations that the mobile device may be based on likely speeds traveled by the device and also on likely routes to be taken by a user of the device. To find the narrowed likely locations a mobile device may be the display generator can filter the likely locations with user specific data. As described further below the different available data can provide a higher probability that a mobile device may be in a specific area.

The data sources in the location server can provide contextual information to predict the location of the mobile device . For example the map data source can provide information to determine improbable locations for the mobile device to travel such as a mountain in the path of a mobile device s otherwise likely trajectory. The map data source can include data such as roadways and natural and manmade structures. The speed data source can include information regarding the speed limits on various roadways or even the traffic conditions for a particular roadway at a specified time. The user data source can provide information relevant to the user such as prior locations user contacts a user profile and schedule all discussed further below.

When receiving information from the mobile device the location server can receive a data regarding a location and may also receive a data indicating a time corresponding to a particular location. The location server can send transmitted locations to the location coordinate translator . The location coordinate translator can interpret the location from the mobile device into terminology that the location server can understand. Using data from the map data source and the time associated with the location information the location coordinate translator can determine a last vector. For example the map data source may provide information that at 3 52 p.m. a shipment of hazardous materials was on I 95 heading west toward New York City from Stamford Conn. In some embodiments the map data source can also provide data to determine improbable areas such as the Atlantic Ocean buildings near the highway or the other side of the interstate. Such improbable areas may be set out by inference such as by the system determining likely paths along roadways where there are no roadways in the improbable areas.

The route analyzer can determine possible locations using the last vector and data from the map data source . For example the route analyzer may model points in a geographic area as a tree of possible routes that the device may take with each intersection at a node in the tree and each road segment a branch in the tree. The route analyzer may then traverse the tree while applying various speeds for the device until the elapsed time between the last reporting of a last known location and the present time or some other chosen time has elapsed. As indicated above the terminus point along each route permutation from such a technique may represent a curve of equal likelihood for a certain travel speed.

The route analyzer can also use geometric shapes to determine the possible locations. For example when trying to find a child lost in a park the route analyzer can use a circle to determine the possible locations of the child s mobile device . Conversely for a truck carrying hazardous materials on a busy highway the route analyzer can use a teardrop shape biased in the direction of the trucks last known travel direction or biased along a roadway on which the truck was last traveling.

Using the distance analyzer the location server can include speed information from the speed data source to narrow the possible locations of the mobile device to the likely locations. For example if the speed data source has information regarding the traffic conditions on I 95 in Connecticut the distance analyzer can determine the likely locations of the mobile device on the truck is likely 45 m.p.h. and therefore the truck is within a particular area of I 95. Such determinations may be made in a manner similar to the tree model example provided above.

In some implementations the location server may also include information from the user data source to further narrow the likely locations. As described above the user data source can include data regarding prior locations of the mobile device contacts of the mobile device s user user profile information and the user s schedule. Using this data the display generator can determine the narrowed likely locations for the mobile device . For example the user data source may store a month s worth of locations transmitted from the mobile device . In such an embodiment the more common a user travels to a particular location the stronger the likelihood that the user will return to that location. Alternatively the user data source may store data regarding the user s personal connections such as family and friends to determine likely destinations. The user would more likely travel to a known person s dwelling than a stranger s house.

In addition with data from the user s profile such as age or gender certain decisions by a driver or other tracked user may be more or less likely. For example if a twelve year old girl needs to be located it is less likely that she is at the Department of Motor Vehicles than the mall a half mile away. Alternatively using the user s schedule one may find it is likely that a truck holding hazardous material is at a fast food restaurant because the driver stops at 4 00 p.m. to eat dinner before traveling through New York City. In another example the twelve year old girl may have had an orthodontist s appointment that makes it likely that she is near that particular location.

After the various locations for the mobile device are determined the display generator can generate data for forming a display such as HTML CSS code or other similar data. The location server can send the display data through the Internet to a computing device such as a personal computer or another mobile device. In other implementations the narrowed likely locations can be transmitted from the location server via audio communication such as in the form of likely coordinates or a street address and direction. For example when trying to find a child during an Amber Alert the narrowed likely locations can be transmitted from the location server to a police car radio via street addresses.

In some implementations the location server and the computing device may be part of the same system such as a second mobile device that can compute the probability of the mobile device being in a particular location. For example when trying to find a child lost in a store a parent can search for her daughter using the system described above tracking her daughter s mobile device with her own mobile device while still in the store.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the systems and methods for tracking a mobile device are illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to enable tracking upon request.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for a tracking system. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that enable a tracking system.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT.NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine a gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for tracking a mobile device using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX . The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device . With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and location identifier .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and tracking enablement processes associated with the location identifier .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the device can be tracked using the methods and systems described to determine the likely locations of the device. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

