---

title: Establishing patient consent on behalf of a third party
abstract: A database system, which stores electronic medical records, may assign a child-application-identification-code to a healthcare provider via a clinical system intermediary acting on behalf of the healthcare provider. The database system may associate the child-application-identification-code assigned to the healthcare provider with a privacy statement and terms of use associated with the clinical system. The privacy statement and terms of use may be presented to the patient when the patient is prompted by the database system to approve or deny a request by the healthcare provider to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024273&OS=08024273&RS=08024273
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08024273
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
Electronic medical records EMR may be used by healthcare providers to conveniently store medical information of their patients. Electronic medical records may also enable healthcare providers to conveniently share medical information of their patients with other healthcare providers. A variety of privacy rules dictating how medical information may be shared by healthcare providers have been created to deal with a variety of issues relating to such electronic medical records. Some privacy rules do not permit a patient s electronic medical record to be shared with other healthcare providers without first obtaining consent from the patient.

Managing access to an electronic medical record is disclosed. As one example a database system which stores electronic medical records may assign a child application identification code to a healthcare provider via a clinical system intermediary acting on behalf of the healthcare provider. The database system may associate the child application identification code assigned to the healthcare provider with a privacy statement and terms of use associated with the clinical system. The privacy statement and terms of use may be presented to the patient when the patient is prompted by the database system to approve or deny a request by the healthcare provider to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Patient may refer generally to a consumer of healthcare services. As one example patient may refer to a person that physically receives healthcare services from one or more healthcare providers. For example a patient may receive healthcare services from healthcare provider as indicated by interaction . Patient may receive healthcare services from other healthcare providers including healthcare provider and healthcare provider as indicated by interactions and respectively. Patient may also refer to a person that is authorized to act on behalf of the person or animal in the case of veterinary services that physically receives the healthcare services from one or more of the healthcare providers. As such the term patient may refer to either the person that physically receives the healthcare services or the person that is authorized to act on behalf of the person or animal that physically receives the healthcare services from the healthcare provider.

Healthcare providers may refer generally to providers of healthcare services. As one example healthcare providers may refer to persons such as physicians pharmacists dentists ophthalmologists laboratory technicians veterinarians etc. that physically provide healthcare services to patients. Healthcare providers may also refer to other entities that use information stored in a patient s electronic medical record. As further non limiting examples fitness clubs athletic organizations dieting organizations or other entities may be referred to as a healthcare provider. Healthcare providers may also refer to persons that are authorized to act on behalf of persons who physically provide the healthcare services to patients. For example a healthcare provider may also refer to office staff nursing assistants pharmacy assistants veterinary assistants or other suitable third parties that are authorized to act on behalf of the physicians pharmacists dentists ophthalmologists laboratory technicians veterinarians etc. As such healthcare providers may refer to any suitable entity having legitimate reason to access electronic medical records of a patient including health insurance providers medical researchers and government agencies.

In some embodiments database system may utilize a registration process for clinical systems and healthcare providers before permitting these clinical systems and healthcare providers to access the electronic medical records. Referring to clinical systems may each serve one or more of healthcare providers . For example clinical system may serve healthcare provider and healthcare provider while clinical system and clinical system serve healthcare provider and healthcare provider respectively. In some examples healthcare provider and healthcare provider may be members of separate healthcare practices while in other examples healthcare provider and healthcare provider may be members of the same healthcare practice. In still other examples a clinical system may serve only a single healthcare provider whereby the electronic database system may utilize the master application identification code for identifying the healthcare provider.

Before these healthcare providers may access electronic medical records stored at database system clinical systems e.g. a party that is responsible for the operation and or maintenance of the clinical system may first register for a master application identification code which permits the clinical systems to subsequently obtain child application identification codes on behalf of their respective healthcare providers.

In some embodiments the party that is responsible for the electronic database system may provide a master application identification code to the party that is responsible for the clinical system which may be used to request child application identification codes on behalf of healthcare providers. It should be appreciated that the clinical system may refer to an online service in some examples where the healthcare providers may register for the online service. In other examples the clinical system may refer to a product that is installed at or integrated with a healthcare practice system of a healthcare provider. In either case the master application identification code may be provided to the party that is responsible for the clinical system for use at their discretion to request that child application identification codes be generated on behalf of participating healthcare providers. Although will be described in the context of a clinical system requesting a master application identification code it should be appreciated that the master application identification code need not be assigned to a particular clinical system in some examples but rather to the party that is responsible for the clinical system. The process flows of will be described with reference to healthcare provider and clinical system . However it should be appreciated that the process flows described herein may be applied to other healthcare providers and clinical systems.

Beginning at and of a master code generation request may be submitted to database system by clinical system via API application programming interface . Computer readable storage media may comprise instructions executable by processing subsystem to expose API to clinical systems . Computer readable storage media may further comprise instructions executable by processing subsystem to provide a registration module . The master code generation request may be received at the database system by the registration module.

In other embodiments a master application identification code may be requested without submitting a master code generation request via the API. In other words the party that is responsible for the clinical system may obtain a master application identification code by other suitable approaches without requiring that the clinical system submit an electronic request via the API. For example the party that is responsible for the electronic database system may provide a master application identification code to the party that is responsible for the clinical system for use by the clinical system for requesting child application identification codes on behalf of the healthcare providers.

The master code generation request may specify a variety of parameters including one or more of the following a clinical system identifier identifying the clinical system that submitted the master code generation request a privacy statement to be associated with the clinical system and its respective healthcare providers and a service agreement to be associated with the clinical system and its healthcare providers. The registration module may store these parameters at data store .

In some embodiments the clinical system identifier may include one or more of a name a logo and a description of the clinical system that has submitted the master code generation request. In other embodiments the clinical system identifier may include a unique identification code. It should be appreciated that the clinical system identifier may include any suitable identifying information as prescribed by the database system.

The privacy statement may refer generally to any suitable privacy policy information in machine and or human readable form. The privacy statement may specify how patient information including medical information of the patient may be used by the clinical system and the various healthcare providers who are served by the clinical system.

The service agreement may specify terms of use that the patient agrees to when granting the clinical system access to the electronic medical record stored at the database system. In some embodiments the master code generation request may specify a reference or navigation element e.g. hyperlink that may be used to access or retrieve the privacy statement and service agreement. The privacy statement and or service agreement may be presented to the patient in a manner that enables the patient to decide whether to consent to granting access to a particular healthcare provider or clinical system as will be described with reference to the process flow of .

The registration module may be configured to generate a master application identification code for the clinical system upon receiving the master code generation request. In some embodiments the master application identification code may include a unique identifier that the clinical system may use to identify itself when interacting with the database system. At of the registration module may assign the master application identification code to the clinical system upon receiving the master code generation request. For example the registration module may be configured to store the master application identification code at data store in association with the clinical system identifier. At of the registration module may associate the privacy statement and the service agreement with the master application identification code. For example the registration module may be configured to store the privacy statement and the service agreement at data store in association with the master application identification code. It should be appreciated that the privacy statement and service agreement may be represented at the database system as reference or navigation elements to respective privacy statement documents and service agreement documents residing at a remote location e.g. at data store of clinical system . At of the registration module may return the master application identification code to the clinical system upon receiving the master code generation request from the clinical system.

It should be appreciated that the clinical systems described herein may communicate with the database system via any suitable communication network including one or more wide area networks and local area networks. These clinical systems may communicate with the database system via symmetric or asymmetric cryptography. As a non limiting example data exchanged between clinical system and database system via API may be encrypted through public private key pairs. For example database system may provide a digital certificate to the clinical system upon assigning the master application identification code to the clinical system. The digital certificate may include a public key that may be used by the clinical system to encrypt data that may be decrypted by the database system. It should be appreciated that other suitable encryption standards may be used where appropriate.

At and of database system may receive a child code generation request from the clinical system on behalf of healthcare provider . The child code generation request may be received by the registration module via API . In some embodiments the child code generation request may specify the master application identification code assigned to the clinical system that submitted the child code generation request to the database system. The child code generation request may further specify a provider identifier identifying the healthcare provider on whose behalf the child application identification code was submitted. In some embodiments the provider identifier may include one or more of a name a logo and a description of the healthcare provider. In some embodiments the provider identifier may include a unique identification code.

The registration module may generate a child application identification code upon receiving the child code generation request. At of the registration module may associate the child application identification code with the provider identifier specified by the child code generation request. The registration module may further associate the child application identification code with the privacy statement and the service agreement that were previously associated with the master application identification code at of . These parameters and their respective associations may be stored at data store .

At of the registration module may return the child application identification code to the clinical system that submitted the child code generation request as indicated by the master application identification code. In some embodiments the registration module may return the child application identification code to the clinical system via the API along with the provider identifier so that the clinical system may associate the child application identification code with the appropriate healthcare provider. At the clinical system may optionally forward the child application identification code to the healthcare provider indicated by the provider identifier. Referring to the master application identification code i.e. MASTER APPLICATION ID and the child application identification code i.e. CHILD APPLICATION ID may be optionally stored in data store in association with the provider identifier i.e. PROVIDER ID .

In some embodiments the healthcare provider assigned to the child application identification code may utilize the same digital certificate as the clinical system assigned to the master application identification code that was responsible for submitting the child code generation request. In this way healthcare providers may use the same public key to communicate with the database system as the clinical system which serves as the intermediary between the database system and the healthcare provider.

The database system may create other child application codes for other healthcare providers served by clinical system including healthcare provider . Further the process flows of may be repeated in order to create respective master application identification codes for clinical system and clinical system . Further still the process flows of may be repeated in order to create respective child application identification codes for healthcare provider and .

In this way the database system may generate master application identification codes for clinical systems that submit master code generation requests. The database system may further generate child application identification codes for clinical systems acting on behalf of healthcare providers after they first obtain a master application identification code. Where the clinical system serves a single healthcare provider or a unified group of healthcare providers acting in concert the child application identification code may be the same as the master application identification code. Alternatively a child application identification code may not be assigned whereby the single healthcare provider or unified group of healthcare providers may utilize the master application identification code of the clinical system when interacting with the database system.

Referring again to interaction is depicted schematically between patient and healthcare provider . As one example interaction may represent healthcare services being provided to patient by healthcare provider . For example the patient may physically visit the offices of the healthcare provider to receive treatment from the healthcare provider. While in other examples the patient may remotely receive treatment or monitoring from the healthcare provider via a communication network such as the Internet or telephone. Regardless of the particular manner in which the healthcare provider provides healthcare services to the patient interaction represents a relationship between the healthcare provider and patient as respective provider and consumer of healthcare services.

Patient may also receive healthcare services from other healthcare providers as indicated by interaction and interaction . These other healthcare providers may similarly access electronic medical record of patient stored at database system via their respective clinical systems. Clinical systems including clinical system may refer to one or more of an electronic medical record system a practice management system an online service or other suitable intermediary that facilitates the sharing storage and management of patient medical information between healthcare providers and database system .

As a consequence of interaction healthcare provider may request permission from patient to access electronic medical record at data store of database system . For example the healthcare provider may request permission to perform various actions with respect to medical information of medical record including reading medical information from the electronic medical record or writing medical information to the electronic medical record.

An example approach for obtaining consent from the patient to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system is described with reference to the process flows of . illustrates a process flow depicting how healthcare provider may obtain consent from patient before accessing medical record . illustrates the process flow of from the perspective of the healthcare provider while illustrates the process flow of from the perspective of the database system.

Referring initially to the healthcare provider may request permission from the patient to access the patient s medical record by prompting the patient to exchange a shared secret with the healthcare provider. If the patient provisionally consents to this request then the healthcare provider and the patient may exchange the shared secret. This shared secret may be later used by the patient to formally consent to the request of the healthcare provider. For example at of the healthcare provider may prompt the patient by providing the patient with a validation question to which the patient may respond with a validation answer corresponding to the validation question.

In some embodiments the validation question may prompt the patient to provide a validation answer to the healthcare provider that is both factual and personal to the patient. For example the validation question may inquire as to a maiden name of the patient s mother the patient s city of birth or a name of the patient s first pet among other suitable questions. As indicated at of the validation answer may be provided to the healthcare provider by the patient where the healthcare provider may receive the validation answer from the patient at of .

The healthcare provider upon receiving the validation answer from the patient at of may submit a validation request to the database system at of . In some embodiments the healthcare provider may submit the validation request to the database system via a clinical system such as clinical system as indicated at of . As one example healthcare provider may submit the validation request to clinical system via provider interface .

In some embodiments the provider interface may be exposed to healthcare provider via a computing device . Provider interface may include a graphical user interface that may be presented to the healthcare provider via a display of computing device . Computing device may be communicatively coupled with clinical system via one or more of a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and a local area network LAN .

Clinical system may further include a data store configured to store medical information that may be accessed by healthcare provider . In some embodiments data store may be configured to store a local version of medical information that the healthcare provider may access without communicating with database system . Clinical system may further include a computer readable storage media comprising instructions executable by processing subsystem . As one example the instructions executable by processing subsystem may expose provider interface to one or more of healthcare providers .

The validation request may specify one or more of the following parameters the child application identification code associated with the healthcare provider the validation question the validation answer a patient identifier identifying the patient a provider identifier identifying the healthcare provider and an access request. In some embodiments the validation request may not specify the validation question. For example the validation question may be generated by the clinical system or the database system on behalf of the healthcare provider.

The patient identifier specified by the validation request may include any suitable form of identification for the patient. For example the patient identifier may include a unique identification code of the patient that is assigned to the patient by a healthcare provider or clinical system to refer to the patient. This unique identification code may not include personally identifiable information of the patient in some examples. As another example the patient identifier may include the patient s name. In some embodiments the clinical system may generate the patient identifier on behalf of the healthcare provider.

The access request which may be specified by the validation code request may further specify a medical information identifier and an action identifier. The medical information identifier identifies medical information to be accessed by the healthcare provider via the clinical system upon approval of the access request by the patient. The action identifier identifies one or more actions to be performed by the healthcare provider with respect to the medical information identified by the medical information identifier. For example the action identifier may identify whether the healthcare provider may read the corresponding medical information from the electronic medical record or write the corresponding medical information to the electronic medical record.

Furthermore the action identifier may further include or identify a reason or rationale for why the healthcare provider or clinical system is requesting access of the medical record of the patient. The reason or rationale identified by access request may be presented to the patient when the patient is prompted by the electronic database system to approve or deny the access request. In this way the patient may make a more educated decision on whether to approve or deny a particular access request.

A second access request is shown at including a medical information identifier immunizations and a corresponding action identifier read . A third access request is shown at which may include a plurality of medical information identifiers and corresponding action identifiers for each. As a non limiting example access request may correspond to a request by the healthcare provider to access all of the medical information of the electronic medical record. In some embodiments each of the access permissions specified by the medical information identifier and corresponding action identifier may be approved or denied by the patient on an individual basis while in other embodiments the patient may approve or deny all of the access permissions as a group. In some embodiments the access request may be generated on behalf of the healthcare provider by the clinical system. In these embodiments the validation code request may not include the access request or the access request may be appended to the validation code request after the healthcare provider has submitted the validation code request to the clinical system.

At of the clinical system may submit or forward the validation code request to the database system via API . At of the database system may receive the validation code request from the clinical system via the API including one or more of the patient identifier the validation question the validation answer and the access request. In some embodiments computer readable storage media may comprise instructions executable by processing subsystem to provide a validation module which may receive the validation request. The validation module may be configured to generate a validation code upon receiving the validation code request via the API. As a non limiting example the validation code generated by the database system may include a unique alphanumeric code comprising 16 characters. However it should be appreciated that the validation code may include any suitable number of alphabetic numeric and or other characters. In some embodiments the validation code may comprise 32 or less characters. In some embodiments the validation code may not include the letter O and the number 0 to reduce confusion between these similarly shaped characters.

Referring to the validation code i.e. VALIDATION CODE may be stored at the database system in a PENDING REQUESTS table along with one or more of the validation question i.e. VALIDATION QUESTION the validation answer i.e. VALIDATION ANSWER the child application identification code i.e. CHILD APPLICATION ID associated with the healthcare provider and the patient identifier PATIENT ID . At of upon receiving the validation request from the clinical system the master application identification code i.e. MASTER APPLICATION ID of the clinical system the child application identification code i.e. CHILD APPLICATION ID the provider identifier i.e. PROVIDER ID the access permissions specified by the access request i.e. REQUESTED DATA the privacy statement PRIVACY STATEMENT and the service agreement i.e. SERVICE AGREEMENT may be stored at an APPLICATIONS table. The public key i.e. PUBLIC KEY used to communicate with the clinical system may also be stored at the APPLICATIONS table in association with the child or master application identification code. Note that the master application identification code the child application identification code the provider identifier the public key the privacy statement and the service agreement may be stored at the APPLICATIONS table in association with the registration process described with reference to . Upon receiving the validation code request the validation module may set the status indicator i.e. STATUS in the PENDING REQUESTS table to PENDING.

As and of the database system may return the validation code to the clinical system via the API upon receiving validation code request at . The clinical system in turn may receive the validation code from the database system via the API upon submission of the validation code request to the database system. In some embodiments the database system may return the validation code to the clinical system in the form of a validation code response. The validation code response may further specify one or more of the child application identification code associated with the healthcare provider and the patient identifier. In this way the clinical system may associate the validation code received from the database system with the appropriate healthcare provider and patient. In some embodiments the validation code received from the database system may be optionally stored in data store of the clinical system.

At of the clinical system may optionally forward the validation code to the healthcare provider via provider interface . As one example the validation code may be displayed to the healthcare provider via graphical user interface of computing device . In some embodiments the validation code may be presented to the healthcare provider in a hyphen delimited manner. For example where the validation code comprises 16 characters the validation code may be displayed in 4 blocks of 4 characters each. A non limiting example of a validation code may include Q2W3 E4R6 T6Y7 U9PL. In some embodiments each of the alphabetic characters of the validation code may be presented to the healthcare provider and patient in an entirely uppercase format. In this way the validation code may be presented to the healthcare provider and eventually to the patient in a manner that improves the readability of the validation code. At of the healthcare provider may receive the validation code from the database system via the clinical system upon submission of the validation request including at least the validation answer and the patient identifier to the database system.

At and of the validation code may be provided to the patient. In some embodiments the healthcare provider may provide the validation code to the patient before conclusion of interaction . For example the healthcare provider may provide the patient with instruction materials that include the validation code. The instruction materials may further include instructions for the patient to submit the validation code to the database system. For example the instruction materials may include a uniform resource locator URL indicating a web page where the patient is to submit the validation code to the database system.

As a non limiting example patient may submit the validation code and the validation answer to the database system via patient interface . For example patient interface may be exposed to patient by a GUI displayed via a computing device . As a non limiting example patient interface may be exposed to patient via a web browser that may be displayed to the patient at GUI . As such a web page indicated by the URL included with the instruction materials may be presented to the patient via computing device . In some embodiments these instruction materials may not include the validation answer so as to reduce the likelihood that third parties discover or deduce the validation answer from the instruction materials. Since the validation answer may be personal to the patient the patient may be better able to later recall the validation answer when prompted with the validation question.

In some embodiments the instruction materials including the validation code may be physically handed to the patient before the patient leaves the office of the healthcare provider. In other embodiments the validation code may be transmitted to the patient by the healthcare provider. For example the instruction materials including the validation code may be mailed to the patient or to the patient s residence. As another example the healthcare provider may transmit the validation code to the patient by emailing the instruction materials to the patient or to an email address of the patient. In still other embodiments the clinical system or the database system may transmit the validation code to the patient by mailing or emailing on behalf of the healthcare provider. In these embodiments the validation code may not be presented to the healthcare provider. As such it should be appreciated that the patient may receive the validation code in a number of ways while retaining a suitable level of confidentiality.

Meanwhile at of the healthcare provider may optionally update medical information of the patient stored locally at the clinical system. For example the healthcare provider may periodically submit medical information to the clinical system for storage at data store . It should be appreciated that the medical information of the patient stored at data store may differ at times from the electronic medical record of the patient stored at data store of the database system. As a non limiting example the medical information stored at data store may include more less or different medical information than the electronic medical record stored at data store for the same patient. The medical information of the patient stored at data store may be later written to the medical record stored at upon approval of the access request by the patient.

Regardless of the particular manner by which the patient receives the validation code the patient may subsequently submit the validation code to the database system at of . As one example the database system may prompt the patient to submit the validation code to the database system via the patient interface. In some embodiments the patient interface may include a webpage. However it should be understood that the terms web page web browser and web server are used to refer to any network information network user interface and network server and should not be narrowly construed as corresponding only to the World Wide Web of the Internet. At of the validation code may be received from the patient by the database system via the patient interface. For example at of validation module may receive the validation code and may retrieve the validation question stored at data store of the database system based on the validation code received from the patient.

At and of the validation question that is retrieved from the data store may be presented to the patient via the patient interface. For example the validation module may cause the validation question to be displayed to the patient via the patient interface thereby prompting the patient to submit the validation answer to the validation question. The validation question may be displayed to the patient via GUI of computing device for example. At and of the validation answer may be received from the patient via the patient interface upon presentation of the validation question to the patient. The validation module may compare the validation answer received from the patient via the patient interface to the validation answer that was previously received from the clinical system and stored at the data store.

If the validation answer received from the patient matches the validation answer stored at data store the database system may present the patient with the access request via the patient interface as indicated at and of . Alternatively if the validation answer received from the patient does not match the validation answer stored at the data store the database system may again present the validation question to the patient via the patient interface thereby prompting the patient to re enter the validation answer. In some embodiments the patient may have a certain number of opportunities or attempts to correctly enter the validation answer. For example the clinical system may provide the patient with three attempts to correctly enter the validation answer. If the patient does not correctly enter the validation answer within a prescribed number of attempts the patient may not approve access to the medical record stored at the electronic database system for the healthcare provider until receiving and submitting a new subsequent validation code and corresponding validation answer.

In some embodiments delimiting characters of the validation code may be ignored when evaluating the validation code submitted by the patient. Further in some embodiments the validation code may be evaluated by the validation module by comparing the validation code submitted by the patient at to the validation code stored at the data store in a case insensitive manner while also ignoring hyphens or other delimiters that may be submitted by the patient along with the validation code characters.

Upon receiving the validation answer from the patient that matches the validation answer stored at data store the validation module may retrieve the access request from data store . For example the validation module may retrieve one or more of the provider identifier privacy statement service agreement medical information identifiers and action identifiers associated with the child application identification code specified by the access request.

At and of the validation module may request patient approval of the access request by presenting the access request to the patient. As a non limiting example the validation module may present one or more of the provider identifier privacy statement service agreement medical information identifiers and action identifiers to the patient via the patient interface. In some embodiments the validation module may cause the provider identifier to be displayed to the patient via GUI along with one or more of the privacy statement service agreement medical information identifiers and action identifiers. Presentation of the provider identifier with the privacy statement service agreement and access permissions may enable the patient to make a trust decision as to whether the access request should be approved denied or approved in part by the patient. At of the patient may respond to the access request presented at by submitting a request response to the database system via the patient interface.

At of the database system may receive the request response from the patient via the patient interface whereby the request response indicates approval or denial of some or all of the access permissions specified by the access request. In some embodiments the validation module may store an approved or denied status indicator at data store for each access permission specified by the various medical information identifiers and action identifiers. Note that in some embodiments the patient may approve or deny the entire access request while in other embodiments the patient may approve or deny portions of the access request. For example referring again to an approved or denied indicator may be stored in each relevant field of the various access permissions specified by the access request.

Referring to the validation module may update the status indicator to ACCEPTED at the PENDING REQUESTS table upon receiving a request response that includes an approval of the access request. The validation module may be further configured to generate a person identification code PERSON ID and a record identification code RECORD ID that may be used to identify the person and record associated with the patient s approval of the access request upon receiving the request response from the patient via the patient interface. The validation module upon receiving a request response approving the access request may be further configured to store the child application identification code associated with the healthcare provider at an APPLICATION AUTHORIZATIONS table along with the PERSON ID and the RECORD ID. An AUTHORIZATION RULES field may be populated with status indicators either approving or denying each of the access permissions specified by the access request i.e. REQUESTED DATA . For example the access request depicted at of includes a medical information indicator MEDICATIONS and approved action indicators READ and WRITE. Where both read and write actions have been approved by the patient the AUTHORIZATION RULES may be populated with status indicators that represent the approval of the access permissions specified by the access request. The record management module may interpret the AUTHORIZATION RULES to permit the healthcare provider associated with the child application identification code stored in the APPLICATION AUTHORIZATIONS table to access the electronic medical record of the patient in accordance with the approved medical information indicators and action indicators.

In some embodiments the clinical system may periodically poll the database system for new patient authorizations. As indicated at of the clinical system may periodically submit to the database system via the API a request for new patient authorizations along with one or more of the child application identification code of the healthcare provider and the master application identification code of the clinical system. The clinical system may additionally submit a last poll time to the database system along with the application identification code and the request for new patient authorizations.

The database system upon receiving the request for new patient authorizations may return patient authorizations that have occurred since the last poll time. As a non limiting example at of of the electronic database system may be configured to submit or return a consent notification to the clinical system via the API upon receiving the request response from the patient or upon receiving the request for new patient authorizations from the clinical system. As a non limiting example the consent notification may specify one or more of the master application identification code assigned to the clinical system the child application identification code assigned to the healthcare provider the patient identifier the person identification code and the record identification code. It should be appreciated that the database system may communicate other suitable parameters to the clinical system including the approval and denial of the various access permissions indicated by the request response received from the patient at of .

In some embodiments the clinical system may provide a URL address to the electronic database system where the electronic database system may submit the consent notification. The clinical system and or the healthcare provider may in turn receive the consent notification via the URL address that was provided to electronic database system upon approval of the access request by the patient.

The clinical system may store one or more of the parameters specified by the consent notification at data store . For example referring also to the person identification code i.e. PERSON ID and the record identification code i.e. RECORD ID may be stored at the PATIENTS table of the clinical system in association with the PATIENT ID. The validation module may also update the status indicator i.e. STATUS at the PENDING REQUESTS table upon submission of the consent notification to the clinical system via the API.

At of of the database system may permit the healthcare provider and or clinical system to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at data store in accordance with the request response received from the patient at i.e. the approved access permissions . In some embodiments computer readable storage media may comprise instructions executable by the processing subsystem to provide a record management module . Record management module may be configured to manage access to the electronic medical records stored at data store by healthcare providers and clinical systems in accordance with the access request approved by the patient.

As a first example the record management module of the database system may be configured to permit the healthcare provider and or clinical system to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system only after the validation code and the validation answer have been submitted to the database system by the patient via the patient interface. For example at of the healthcare provider and or the clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by submitting medical information to the database system to cause the electronic medical record to be updated i.e. written with the medical information only after the validation code and the validation answer have been submitted to the database system by the patient via the patient interface. The medical information submitted at of may include medical information submitted to the clinical system at by the healthcare provider. At of the healthcare provider and or clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by receiving i.e. reading medical information from the medical record only after the validation code and the validation answer have been submitted to the database system by the patient via the patient interface. The medical information received by the clinical system at may be optionally stored at data store where it may be accessed by the healthcare provider via the provider interface. In other examples the medical information received by the clinical system at may be optionally forwarded to the healthcare provider via the provider interface as indicated at of .

As another example the record management module of the database system may be configured to permit the healthcare provider and or clinical system to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system only after the request response approving the access request has been received from the patient via the patient interface. As a non limiting example the record management module may be configured to check the PENDING REQUESTS table for the presence of one or more of the ACCEPTED or COMPLETE status indicators before permitting the clinical system or healthcare provider to access the electronic medical record. For example at of the healthcare provider and or the clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by submitting medical information to the database system to cause the electronic medical record to be updated with the medical information only after the request response approving the access request has been received from the patient via the patient interface. For example at of the healthcare provider and or clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by receiving medical information from the medical record only after the request response has been received by the patient via the patient interface.

As yet another example the record management module of the database system may be configured to permit the healthcare provider and or clinical system to access the electronic medical record of the patient stored at the database system only after the consent notification specifying the approval of the access request by the patient is submitted to the clinical system by the database system via the API. As a non limiting example the record management module may be configured to check the PENDING REQUESTS table for the presence of the COMPLETE status indicator before permitting the clinical system or healthcare provider to access the electronic medical record. For example at of the healthcare provider and or the clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by submitting medical information to the database system to cause the electronic medical record to be updated with the medical information only after consent notification specifying the approval of the access request is submitted to the clinical system via the API. For example at of the healthcare provider and or clinical system may access the medical record of the patient by receiving medical information from the medical record only after the consent notification specifying the approval of the access request has been submitted to the clinical system via the API.

In each of the above examples the healthcare provider and or the clinical system may be permitted to access only the medical information identified by the approved medical information identifiers in accordance with the approved action identifiers. As indicated at of the clinical system may optionally forward the consent notification to the healthcare provider upon receiving the consent notification from the database system at . As indicated at of the clinical system may optionally notify the patient when the electronic medical record of the patient is accessed by the healthcare provider or the clinical system. This notification may specify one or more of the provider identifier and the clinical system identifier as well as the medical information accessed and the action taken with respect to the medical information. This notification may be emailed to the patient or may otherwise be displayed to the patient via GUI .

As indicated at and of the healthcare provider may submit subsequent access requests to amend the access permissions approved by the patient. For example the healthcare provider may initially submit access request of to the database system for approval by the patient and may later submit at of access request of . The clinical system may forward the subsequent access request to the database system at of as previous described. At of the subsequent access request may be presented to the patient as previously described with reference to . At of the patient may submit a subsequent request response to the database system via the patient interface. The subsequent request response may approve or deny access permissions that were specified by the original access request and may approve or deny access permissions specified by the subsequent access request. The healthcare provider and or the clinical system may access the electronic medical record of the patient in accordance with the approved access permissions specified by the subsequent request response. Once the patient has initially submitted the validation code and validation answer the patient may adjust the approved status of the access permissions at any time. In this way the patient may change or update the approved access permissions without necessarily requiring additional shared secrets to be exchanged between the healthcare provider and the patient.

In some embodiments the patient may revoke the approved status of some or all of the access permissions at any time via the patient interface whereby the healthcare provider and or clinical system may no longer be permitted to access the medical record of the patient stored at the database system. As a non limiting example the validation module may be configured to update the AUTHORIZATION RULES field of the APPLICATION AUTHORIZATIONS table in accordance with the subsequent request response of the patient.

It will be appreciated that the computing devices described herein may be any suitable computing device configured to execute programs. For example the computing devices may be a mainframe computer personal computer laptop computer portable data assistant PDA computer enabled wireless telephone networked computing device or other suitable computing device and may be connected to each other via computer networks such as the Internet. These computing devices typically include a processor and associated volatile and non volatile computer readable storage media and are configured to execute programs stored in non volatile computer readable storage media using portions of volatile computer readable storage media and the processor. It will be appreciated that computer readable media may be provided having program instructions stored thereon which upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to execute the methods described above and cause operation of the systems described above.

It should be understood that the embodiments herein are illustrative and not restrictive since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them and all changes that fall within metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds thereof are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims.

