---

title: Processing multi-party calls in a contact center
abstract: A data processing apparatus is configured for receiving a call comprising multiple callers who are identified in a multi-party caller identification value that is received with the call; retrieving from a database, based on the multi-party caller identification value, information about each of the multiple callers; based on the retrieved information and a collective importance algorithm, determining or selecting one or more call treatment attributes for the call; and processing the call using the one or more call treatment attributes that are determined or selected. For example, a contact center or call center can provide differentiated services based on collective attributes or profiles, or a weighted average priority, of multiple people who are calling together, rather than only taking into account information about a single calling party. Call processing attributes such as priority, queuing, routing, and screen pop-up content, may be selected based on collective data about multiple callers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08218753&OS=08218753&RS=08218753
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08218753
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
The present disclosure generally relates to the field of telephony more particularly caller identification ID systems for telephony networks.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Caller ID is a common service offered by most telephone companies which determines and communicates the number name of the calling party of an incoming call. Many modern telephone and telephony systems routinely offer this service which is also known as Automatic Number Identification ANI . Today many communication systems provide messaging and conferencing services via packetbased networks i.e. those that operate in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

Telephone call contact centers such as customer service centers typically assume that an inbound call or a customer interaction involves a single person identified by the caller s caller ID number. Treatment of the call in the contact center including priority queuing routing and screen displays or pops assumes that a single person is calling. Contact centers do not have an effective way to adjust the treatment of a call when a call or interaction involves multiple people at the same time.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In an embodiment a data processing apparatus is configured for receiving a call comprising multiple callers who are identified in a multi party caller identification value that is received with the call retrieving from a database based on the multi party caller identification value information about each of the multiple callers based on the retrieved information and a collective importance algorithm determining or selecting one or more call treatment attributes for the call and processing the call using the one or more call treatment attributes that are determined or selected.

In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises sequences of instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform determining two or more individual caller identification values that are included in the multi party caller identification value wherein each of the individual caller identification values is uniquely associated with one of the multiple callers.

In an embodiment the sequences of instructions cause the processor to perform determining or selecting a collective priority value for the call selecting a particular queue for the call based on the call treatment attributes routing the call to a particular call handling agent based on the call treatment attributes or generating one or more screen display content elements based on the call treatment attributes.

In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises sequences of instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform retrieving a plurality of individual caller profiles from the database for the multiple callers creating and storing a collective profile based on the plurality of individual caller profiles and determining selecting or modifying one or more of the call treatment attributes based on the collective profile.

In an embodiment the call treatment attributes comprise any of a call routing a selected call handling agent content of one or more screen displays and data for populating one or more forms.

In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises sequences of instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform generating and displaying one or more visual displays that include one or more content elements that are based on the collective profile.

In an embodiment the apparatus further comprises sequences of instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform receiving during the call an updated multi party caller identification value retrieving from the database based on the updated multi party caller identification value updated information about each of the multiple callers based on the retrieved updated information and the collective importance algorithm determining or selecting one or more updated call treatment attributes for the call processing the call using the one or more updated call treatment attributes that are determined or selected.

Using the techniques herein for example a contact center or call center can provide differentiated services based on collective attributes or profiles or a weighted average priority of multiple people who are calling together rather than only taking into account information about a single calling party. Call processing attributes such as priority queuing routing and screen pop up content may be selected based on collective data about multiple callers.

In other embodiments the invention encompasses a computer implemented method and a computer readable medium configured to carry out the foregoing steps. Many other features and aspects will become apparent from the following description and claims.

In the context of the present application a communication network is a geographically distributed collection of interconnected subnetworks for transporting data between nodes such as intermediate nodes and end nodes also referred to as endpoints . A local area network LAN is an example of such a subnetwork a plurality of LANs may be further interconnected by an intermediate network node such as a router bridge or switch to extend the effective size of the computer network and increase the number of communicating nodes. Examples of the endpoint devices or nodes may include servers VoIP phones Session Initiation Protocol SIP phones video conferencing units video terminals Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and personal computers. The nodes typically communicate by exchanging discrete frames or packets of data according to predefined protocols.

A communication or conferencing system as those terms are used herein both comprise software and or hardware including firmware components integrated so as to facilitate the live exchange of voice and in certain implementations other information audio video and or data among persons participating via endpoint devices at different remote locations. A call or conference session may involve point to point or multipoint calls over a variety of network connections and protocol types.

An endpoint is a device that provides media communications termination to an end user client or person who is capable of participating in a telephony call or in an audio conference session via a communication system. Endpoint devices that may be used to initiate or participate in a call or conference session include a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a voice over Internet protocol VoIP phone a personal computer PC such as notebook laptop or desktop computer an audio video appliance or any other device component element or object capable of initiating or participating in audio exchanges with a telephony or conferencing system.

According to one embodiment a mechanism is provided that communicates to a called party the caller IDs e.g. names numbers of multiple persons participating or listening in on call placed from a single phone or endpoint device. In various embodiments described herein a Graphical User Interface GUI Telephony User Interface TUI may be utilized on a caller endpoint device for adding multiple callers to a call with proper authentication and authorization.

In accordance with a specific embodiment a new GUI button e.g. Add Caller is displayed when the phone handset is lifted off hook. The GUI button may be implemented as either a soft key on the phone UI or a hardware button. Upon pressing the Add Caller button the user is prompted to enter new caller ID information to be associated with the current call. At this point the user can either enter his user ID and password combination or the phone number and personal identification number PIN for his caller ID to be associated with the call. The information collected from the above steps is then sent to an Authentication Authorization Accounting AAA server.

Upon confirmation from the AAA server which includes the standard formatted caller ID information the phone device associates the additional caller ID of the user to the call. The Add caller button can be pressed repeatedly to associate additional users to the call. Once the call is placed the caller ID information for all the persons present or participating on the call is communicated to the other endpoint device s . In other words when the call is presented i.e. rings on the callee s phone device the multiple caller IDs are displayed. The called party may use this information to make an informed decision about whether to answer the call.

Referring to an example communications system is shown that includes a call processing server and an AAA server connected via a network with endpoint devices . Endpoint comprises a personal computer PC with built in telephone communication capabilities. shows PC associated with a user . PC may also be associated with video camera which can be used to facilitate video conferencing. Endpoint is an IP phone located in an office or conference room. A group of individuals i.e. users are shown gathered within listening or speaking range of a phone for the purpose of participating in a conference with user .

Call processing server may comprise a software based callprocessing application such as a version of Cisco s CallManager application that provides signaling and call control services distributes calls and features over IP network . In certain embodiments the call processing component or application may reside on or be integrated into a variety of different nodes or devices connected to network . For example the call processing component shown running on server may run on a voice gateway switch router or Private Branch Exchange e.g. IPPBX used to facilitate communication amongst endpoints attached to network . In still other cases the call manager function may run on the IP enabled endpoint or phone devices themselves.

AAA server comprises an authentication server used for network access control i.e. to authenticate each person present on the call. The authentication function identifies the caller user whereas the authorization function implements policies that determine which resources and call services a valid user may access. The authorization function may be utilized for example to restrict calls made to certain countries when persons other than high level managers are present in the room. The accounting function keeps track of time and data resources used e.g. for purposes of billing and analysis.

In the embodiment shown when user of phone picks up the handset or otherwise presses the speaker button to place a call to user a GUI or TUI e.g. an interactive voice response IVR system immediately prompts the other persons present on the call users to individually enter their phone extension number followed by a secret PIN or passcode. This information is then sent to AAA server to authenticate each person for the call. Once authenticated or validated the call is allowed to connect with the callee s phone with the caller ID information of users is then sent to PC so that user may see the name of each person participating in the conference call. In another embodiment the system does not prompt the caller to enter the names of the other participants unless the first caller presses the hardware button or a soft button Add Users . In certain embodiments the caller ID information of all the users may be collectively associated stored in the IP phone or other device and communicated to other devices using a composite caller ID value termed a Multi Party Call ID.

In the example scenario shown IP phone is an office phone assigned to or associated with user Mike . User Joseph is a Group Director who along with users James Bob has stopped by Mike s office to discuss a high priority customer issue. During their discussion they decide to consult with user Chris and therefore place a call to him from IP phone . Chris who is busy working on another high priority task might ordinarily ignore Mike s call and let it be forwarded to his voicemail. But when Chris sees on the screen of PC that the incoming call is from Mike Joseph James and Bob he decides to answer the call.

In addition to manually filtering calls as described above automated call filtering functions may be executed by standard call filter engines such as PA Personal Assistance systems running on PC or on any other PC or server attached to network . Various filters rules can be applied when multiple caller IDs are associated to a call from an endpoint device. For example Chris may configure a filtering rule on his PC wherein calls from Joseph are always allowed such that anytime Joseph is present on the call the call is to be presented. Another possible rule may be to send calls from Mike to voicemail rather than alert the phone about the incoming call except when Joseph is present on the call.

In a particular implementation the GUI TUI provides the caller with the ability by to re organize the order of the caller IDs. In the example given above for instance the caller ID order may be arranged as Joseph James Bob and Mike before placing the call. The called party i.e. Chris may apply different call filtering rules based on the order of the caller ID information. For instance if the first caller listed is Joseph or if Joseph is present in first three callers listed then the call is to be accepted otherwise the call is not accepted or is transferred to Chris voicemail messaging system.

In yet another example embodiment the system may utilize the directory to automatically arrange the order of the callers alphabetically in order of their rank seniority or any other specified criteria.

As can be seen when a user picks up the telephone handset or otherwise opens a line to place a call e.g. presses a speakerphone or conference call button window appears to prompt the user to enter an extension number of an additional person who may be present in the room. If nobody else is present the user may press softkey button A in order to ignore the additional person validation process and simply proceed with the call. Alternatively if another person besides the primary caller is present on the call the additional caller enters their extension number followed by a secret PIN or passcode that uniquely identifies that individual within the organization.

After entering the information in the requested format e.g. extension PIN the additional caller presses softkey button B Done which causes his information to be communicated to AAA server for authentication and authorization. Upon confirmation from the AAA central server which includes the standard formatted caller ID information the caller s phone or endpoint device associates the additional caller ID to the call. A new GUI window may then appear on the display screen of the IP phone giving the user the option to enter the extension number of any additional persons present on the call. That is the Add caller button can be pressed again to repeat above steps to associate additional users to the call. The multiple caller IDs are then displayed on a display screen or monitor of the callee s endpoint device e.g. PC when the call is finally presented i.e. when the phone rings. In certain embodiments the caller ID information of all the users may be collectively associated stored and communicated to other devices using the composite caller ID value or Multi Party Call ID.

In another embodiment a dedicated Add Caller button may be provided on the phone such that GUI window appears on the display screen in response to the Add Caller button being pressed.

In another variation of the example embodiment described above Mike s phone may be associated to his PC and Joseph James and Bob may each utilize Mike s PC to add their caller IDs to the outgoing call. Again the entered information is sent to AAA server for authentication and authorization purposes. In still another embodiment Joseph may associate his PC laptop with Mike s phone device using a wired or wireless e.g. Bluetooth 802.11 infrared etc. connection. Joseph may then use his own PC laptop to enter his extension number and PIN information which is then submitted it AAA server for adding his caller ID to outgoing call.

Rather than having users manually enter their caller ID information the identification authentication and authorization processes for adding caller IDs to a call may be completely automatic. In other words manual entering of extension numbers or other caller ID information is unnecessary since one or more recognition or identification systems may be employed to identify authenticate and authorize individuals present on a call. By way of example illustrates a communications system configured for automatic identification of multiple persons on a call. In the example shown a number of different devices are shown coupled with an IP PBX system which in turn is shown attached to network . The devices include a multi party phone as described above for . A recognition server e.g. an AAA server is also shown attached to network . Recognition server is connected with a database that stores identification and profile information of individuals within the organization. In certain embodiments the caller ID information of all the users in a particular call group or other entity may be collectively associated and stored in the database .

In the example of a biometric reader e.g. fingerprint reader RFID detector and a camera are shown coupled with IP PBX for automatically identifying multiple persons on a call when a user of a phone or other endpoint device goes off hook to place a call. For example when the user picks up the phone to place a call a GUI TUI may prompt the user to have each of the people present in the room scan their fingerprint using a fingerprint reader or other type of biometric reader device .

Alternatively an RFID detector may be placed in the user s office or conference room e.g. in the doorway such that when a call is being placed the RFID detector automatically scans an RFID tag embedded in each person s work badge mobile phone laptop etc. Scanning may also be performed automatically as each person enters the room with the scanned information being forwarded to an AAA server as part of the call initiation process.

In still another example embodiment the system utilizes a smartcard reader to read a smartcard or ID card e.g. a work badge of each person present or close to the originating caller.

Still another possibility is to utilize a camera to capture facial images of each person present in the room prior to a call being placed or connected. Facial recognition technology can be used to recognize the face s of the people near the calling device e.g. video phone and use that to automatically populate the caller ID with IDs of all the individuals nearby to the calling device. For example if Joseph Mike James and Bob are sitting in Mike s office when a call is initiated from Mike s office phone a camera in Mike s office e.g. mounted on his video phone or PC captures the facial images of everyone present or close to the originating caller.

Server for example may include a facial recognition software module that may be used to pick someone s face out of an image extract that face from the rest of the scene and compare it to a catalog of facial images stored in database . By way of example a software program such as Facelt sold by Identix Inc. of Minnetonka Minn. or facial recognition programs sold by Viisage Technology of Littleton Mass. may be used to analyze images of human faces for the purpose of identifying them.

Yet another possibility is to utilize a wireless access point in the office or conference room to detect the presence of an employee s laptop computer PDA or mobile phone device when a call is being placed. Known triangulation techniques may also be utilized to determine when an individual is present or nearby when a conference call is placed to another party.

Regardless of what type of apparatus is utilized once the identification information e.g. fingerprint facial image RFID wireless presence etc. of the individuals present on the call has been automatically obtained it is sent to recognition server for authentication and or authorization purposes. That is recognition server may access database to authenticate the identity of each person detected and also to authorize each person s presence and or participation on the call. Once everybody present on the call has been identified authenticated and or authorized the actual call is placed to the called party by IP PBX system . A list of the names and or other ID information of each person present on the call is then visually provided on a display screen of the called party s endpoint device. In certain embodiments the caller ID information of all the users may be collectively associated and stored using a composite caller ID value or Multi Party Call ID in the IP PBX system .

In another example embodiment the system announces the names of the callers by playing a voice prompt with the callers names or playing a special tone for each caller.

In one embodiment the list of names or caller ID information may be displayed to the callee both prior to pickup or answering a call as well as after the callee has answered the call. This allows the callee to appropriately screen the incoming call and also know who is continually present throughout the duration of the call. For instance during the call Joseph may walk out of the office or conference room which event is detected automatically by say RFID detector . At that point a list of names displayed on the called party s endpoint device is automatically updated in real time such that Joseph s name is no longer listed as being present on the call. In this manner the callee always knows the names or caller IDs of everyone who is currently present on the call. In a particular implementation a log of the persons present on the conference call may be stored in a database for recordkeeping or archival purposes. Additionally the called party s endpoint device may generate an alert message visual audible text etc. notifying the callee of the change in who is currently present on the conference call.

Once everyone present on the call has been authorized or confirmed block the call is placed to the callee s endpoint device or conferencing server handling the call block . In the event that an unidentified person is detected as being present the system may solicit certain ID information prior to connecting the call. For example an outside vendor or contractor Ed may be present in the originating caller s office and the system s database may not have an entry or record of that person. In such a case the GUI TUI may ask Ed to identify his company or firm his full name and other information prior to connecting the call block . In the case of unidentified individuals the originating call may also be asked to specifically authorize that person s presence on the call.

It is appreciated that any caller ID system utilized by or in conjunction with node may comprise separate hardware devices coupled to the system bus or alternatively implemented as software programs or modules that run on one or more processors of subsystem . In other words the various functions described above may be implemented as separate hardware devices memory locations storing executable code firmware devices software modules or other machine readable devices. In the context of the present application therefore the term module is to be understood as being synonymous with both hardware devices and computer executable software code programs or routines. 

It should be further understood that elements of the present invention may also be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer e.g. a processor or other electronic device to perform a sequence of operations. Alternatively the operations may be performed by a combination of hardware and software. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnet or optical cards propagation media or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. For example elements of the present invention may be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer or telephonic device to a requesting process by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

Memory may comprise a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system further may include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk may be coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display. This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory. Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including non volatile storage media and volatile storage media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as memory . All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also may include a communication interface coupled to bus to provide a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network. For example the communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through the local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . The ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . The local network and the Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface. In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet the ISP the local network and the communication interface. The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In various embodiments techniques are provided for customer service centers call processing locations or other call contact centers to provide services to customers or other callers based on information about multiple calling parties involved in a call. In various embodiments the contact centers can provide differentiated services to a call based on the parties involved and their weighted average priority or other factors. In various embodiments the approaches herein can be configured 

Embodiments may be used in a variety of call center products and solutions. For example embodiments may be integrated into products such as the Cisco Unified Communications Contact Center commercially available from Cisco Systems Inc. San Jose Calif. Other embodiments may be implemented in general purpose computers that have telephone interfaces private branch exchange PBX equipment voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call managers or servers and other platforms. The term contact center refers broadly to any location in which call processing equipment is located.

In an embodiment at block a call is received that includes a Multi Party Call ID value. For example assume that a caller named Joseph is calling an airline in the presence of other individuals named Laurent Mukul and Sanjeev all of whom want to make a reservation for a trip together. In an embodiment using the techniques described above in section 2.0 multiple parties may be associated to a call and identified in a composite caller identification value termed a Multi Party Call ID value. As stated in section 2.0 the Multi Party Call ID value can be established based on multiple callers using same phone and then individually authenticating with a AAA server the parties may form a conference call between them and then call the contact center.

As part of block the contact center receives the Multi Party Call ID value together with the call from Joseph and the Multi Party Call ID value indicates that the call is from all four people together. In an embodiment a call management unit that is handling the callers sends a Call Info message to a call handling computer at the Contact Center and the Call Info message contains the Multi Party Call ID value. In an embodiment the call management unit is Cisco Call Manager commercially available from Cisco Systems Inc. In various embodiments the call management unit and the call handling computer may comprise PBX units VoIP computers etc. The Call Info message and other communications between the Call Manager and the Contact Center may conform to the Java Telephony application programming interface JTAPI standard Session Initiation Protocol SIP with extended headers or other protocols.

In block one or more individual caller ID values contained in the Multi Party Call ID value are determined. Block can involve separating concatenated values extracting values from a list of name value pairs or other techniques to separate individual values from a multi value data structure.

Based on the received values in an embodiment the Contact Center can determine a priority for the call taking into account each of the people represented by the Multi Party Call ID value. For example as shown in block the Contact Center can retrieve information from a database or knowledge base about each of Joseph Mukul Laurent and Sanjeev using each of their caller ID values that are embedded in the Multi Party Call ID value.

In block based on the information about the individual callers and based on a collective importance algorithm one or more call treatment attributes for the call are determined or selected. For example the Contact Center calculates a priority of the call based on the collective importance of the four callers the collective priority value is then used in the treatment of the call as seen in block . For example the call is placed in a call handling queue ahead of other calls having lower Collective Priority values. The collective importance algorithm for example can give greater weight to customers who have high call volume or who are known to have purchased a large quantity volume or amount of products or services. Additionally or alternatively the number of transactions that the callers have undertaken bank balances or any other data retrieved at block can be considered. For example if four persons are calling a credit card customer service center and two of the parties are Gold Card holders the group of four might be given a higher priority than another group of callers comprising zero Gold Card holders.

The collective importance algorithm can comprise a weighted average of values associated with each individual caller. A summation function maximum function or other weighting or combining techniques may be used. In an embodiment the Collective Priority is determined according to logic that is configurable or programmable by an administrator or other individual associated with the Contact Center . The particular mechanism that is used to determine the Collective Priority is not critical to the embodiments herein.

Additionally or alternatively as shown in block the call treatment attributes can affect selection of a particular call handling queue from among a plurality of available queues or can determine how the call is routed to one or more call handling agents or can be used to determine what information to display in one or more screen displays that are used by call handling agents to process the call. In step the call is processed or handled based on the determined or selected call handling attributes.

In block based on the collective profile one or more call treatment attributes are determined or selected. As shown in block the call treatment attributes may include a particular call routing selection of a particular call handling agent determining the contents of screen displays or pre populating forms using data in the collective profile or in one or more individual profiles.

In an embodiment a Collective Profile consolidates in a single record the profiles of everyone on the call. The Collective Profile can be used in selecting a call handling agent or to select a group of agents from which a call handling agent is then selected for purposes of receiving and handling or processing the call. For example if two parties among the four parties speak English and two parties speak French then the Contact Center may create a collective profile that identifies both English and French and in response logic in the Contact Center would route the call to a call handling agent fluent in either or both languages.

In another example when four people call together to book airline tickets for traveling together as a group the call center agent handling the reservation may have simultaneous access to traveler profiles of each party in the call. In an embodiment the Contact Center logic can also automatically populate information in call handling forms such as automatically storing the name address and related information of each party on the call in an air ticket booking record with which the call center agent is working.

Thus a Collective Profile may comprise a summary summation or consolidation of profile information for all parties on a call. Additionally or alternatively logic in the Contact Center is configured to enable a call handling agent to retrieve or view an individual profile of each calling party on the call for example after viewing the Collective Profile. Because the Multi Party Call ID value comprises individual caller ID values the logic can retrieve individual profiles from the database based on the individual caller ID values. As a result the call handling agent can interact with the logic in the Contact Center to drill down to more detailed information about one or more individual callers as appropriate.

For example if two parties are collectively calling a credit union call center and jointly applying for a vehicle loan the credit union call center s application programs may determine an interest rate for the loan based on a Collective Profile that averages credit scores of the two callers. However if one party informs the call handling agent that the proposed interest rate is too high the call handling agent could inspect the credit scores of the callers separately or individually by retrieving individual profiles and inform the callers for example that a particular one of the callers has a credit history issue that is driving the offered interest rate. Similarly after initially viewing a Collective Profile showing a combined credit union account balance of both callers the call handling agent might select in a graphical user interface of the call center s application programs one of the callers and view an individual account balance for that person.

Blocks and provide the functions described above for . Block comprises generating and displaying one or more visual displays that include collective or consolidated information for all callers on the call.

In an embodiment an application program hosted in the Contact Center generates screen pop information relating to callers in calls handled by the system to call handling agents on the computer displays of computers used by the call handling agents. In an embodiment the screen pop information that is displayed to the agent handling the call shows the collective information of all parties. For example in various embodiments an identification of a common spoken language is displayed the total net worth of all callers is displayed collective preferences are displayed etc. Such collective information may comprise a union of all individual information that is known about the callers.

Additionally or alternatively the Contact Center can display one or more screen pops windows or other displays that comprise individual information for each different party who is on the call. For example if three friends are applying together for a vehicle loan over the phone the call handling agent may receive a display of the combined net worth of all the callers applicants even though each individual applicant may be unaware of the net worth of another co applicant or unwilling to share an individual net worth value with other co applicants.

In blocks and function as described above for . At some point during processing of blocks or one or more parties join the call or leave the call as shown in block . In an embodiment an IP phone which one of the remaining parties is using re computes the Multi Party Call ID value using any of the techniques described above in section 2.0 and sends a mid call update comprising a new Multi Party Call ID value to the Call Center. For example a PBX unit or call management unit handling the callers sends a Call Info message to a PBX unit or other call handling computer system of the Contact Center and provides the updated Multi Party Call ID value.

In step one or more individual caller ID values are determined for the callers represented in the updated Multi Party Call ID value. Block may be implemented in the same manner as block as described above except that the updated Multi Party Call ID value received in the mid call update is considered.

In block information about the new callers represented in the updated Multi Party Call ID value is retrieved from database or a similar source. In block based on information about all the current callers and based on the collective importance algorithm referenced above in block one or more call treatment attributes for the call are updated. For example call priority queuing routing or screen pop data may change. If the call is already being handled by a call handling agent at the time of an update then subsequent call priority queuing routing or screen pop data might change.

Additionally although the present invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments numerous modifications and alterations are well within the scope of the present invention. For instance although functions and methods of various embodiments have been described as being embodied on a call processing or recognition server it is appreciated that these same methods and functions may be embodied on an endpoint device of a user another server e.g. a conferencing sever a call processing application running on a different client device or a third party service application program accessible via a web based browser.

Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

