---

title: Electronic securities marketplace having integration with order management systems
abstract: An electronic trading marketplace (ETM) communicates with interfacing modules interfacing directly with order management systems (OMS's) at trading institutions. The interfacing modules automatically transmit orders from the OMS databases to the ETM and update the OMS databases in response to orders executed at the ETM. Traders can communicate with the ETM to anonymously negotiate trades of securities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311920&OS=08311920&RS=08311920
owner: CFPH, LLC
number: 08311920
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080501
---
The present invention relates in general to securities trading and in particular to electronic commerce marketplaces and order management systems for supporting securities trading.

Although computers are heavily used to facilitate trading of securities manual intervention may still be required at certain steps in the trading process. For example most traders at institutional investment management firms record their orders to purchase or sell securities in computerized order management systems OMS s . However one or more traders at each firm may manually review the orders in the OMS and attempt to fill the orders by contacting one or more market intermediaries. Typically the traders transmit the orders in the OMS by telephone or separate data entry links to registered broker dealers for the securities to electronic marketplaces that trade the securities or to other market intermediaries. Accordingly manual effort is often required to actually execute the orders in the OMS.

One problem arising from this manual effort is that institutional traders may be unable to execute trades involving large quantities of securities without adversely affecting the market price of the securities. For example institutional traders often need to trade large quantities of securities due to the continuing need of investment managers to respond to changes in market conditions by altering the contents of their investment portfolios. As these portfolios increase in size due to increased investor activity the corresponding quantity of securities to be traded in order to achieve a similar portfolio balance also increases. Market impact costs or adverse costs resulting from the institutional traders activities rise in such circumstances because locating parties with whom to trade such large quantities of securities becomes more difficult for the market intermediaries.

Moreover if the market intermediaries become aware that an institutional firm wants to say sell a large block of a particular equity security this awareness is likely to lower the sale price that the institutional firm can obtain due to the normal processes of supply and demand. The effect is also likely to be exacerbated by speculation from others with knowledge of the order as to why the particular investor wishes to sell such a large quantity of the security. Similarly if market intermediaries become aware of the fact than an institutional firm wants to buy a large block of a particular equity security this awareness will likely increase the purchase price that the institutional firm will have to pay. This adverse effect on price is further exacerbated by the fact that traditional market intermediaries trade for their own accounts.

One strategy commonly employed by institutional traders to offset market impact costs is to spread out trade orders for a large quantity of a security into small orders each handled by a different market intermediary sometimes over several trading days. Of course this strategy brings about its own problems in that the market price can change significantly during this extended trading period due to the unforeseeable activities of others.

Another strategy that may be employed is to spread the orders for the security among one or more electronic marketplaces. However the traders may need to manually transmit each order to the electronic marketplaces using a telephone or a separate data entry link. The fact that the traders may need to perform these extra steps which include duplicate entry of basic order data already recorded in the OMS causes many traders to use these electronic marketplaces infrequently and to supply the marketplaces with only a small subset of the total orders. As a result these electronic marketplaces often lack the liquidity required by a trader to timely execute orders.

The lack of integration between the OMS and the electronic marketplaces also poses problems when an institutional trader wishes to trade a particular security simultaneously within an electronic marketplace and for example over the telephone with a traditional broker. For example some electronic marketplaces attempt to find matches at only specific time intervals. If a trader wishes to buy 100 000 shares of IBM and has placed an order for half that amount in an electronic marketplace the trader will not know how much if any IBM stock was purchased until after the next scheduled match attempt. In the meantime the trader potentially could have purchased more than 50 000 shares from a broker over the phone at a better price.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an electronic trading marketplace that does not require a significant amount of manual intervention by traders or other parties offers anonymity and offers a high amount of liquidity.

Some embodiments address the above need by providing for the automated transmission of orders i.e. without manual trader intervention from the various order management systems OMS s used by investment management firms or other entities having trading systems to an electronic trading marketplace ETM . A firm with a trading system stores information about orders in an OMS to manage its order flow to monitor the initiation placement and execution of orders and for related purposes. Software providing the functionality of an OMS is well known in the art.

OMS interfacing modules OIMs at the firms may automatically transmit orders from the OMS s to the ETM and preferably update the OMS s in response to orders executed at the ETM. Traders can communicate with the ETM to anonymously negotiate trades of securities. As used herein a security is an ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract on any security. This description uses the term security for convenience but it should be understood that the term covers financial instruments generally. It should also be understood that other embodiments may be used for trading of other goods and or services.

The ETM may include an OMS data integration module ODIM for receiving and processing data representative of orders received from the OIMs. In a preferred embodiment the data from the OIMs are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM. The orders processed by the ODIM may be stored in an ETM database.

A negotiation module in the ETM may support negotiations between traders. In one embodiment an indications module transmits orders received by the ETM among the traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. These orders are transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications. Based upon these indications traders at one institution can enter into negotiations with traders at other institutions through the negotiation module of the ETM. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously.

A trader authentication module may authorize and or authenticate traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. A transaction history module may record transactions performed by the ETM in the ETM database. The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example the orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the conducted negotiations.

A typical trading system at an investment management firm or other entity at which trading is performed includes a number of workstations coupled to an OMS server via a network with a trader at each workstation. Each workstation preferably executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions between the trader s workstation and the OMS server. In one embodiment of the present invention the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database. The OMS which includes the OMS server OMS database and TOIM is typically provided by an OMS vendor though some firms have developed their own OMS s.

In connection with the present invention each workstation also preferably executes an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM. The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM. Typically this information includes information about the trader s indications information about other traders indications and orders transmitted to and received by a trader during a negotiation.

The OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated and or completed orders to buy and or sell securities by traders using the trading system. The OIM is in communication with the OMS database and the ETM. An OMS database integration module in the OIM may read data records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment also creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database upon execution of a trade through the ETM. In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an application programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM may include an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM. In one embodiment the ETM communication module provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM regarding changes to make to the OMS database. In addition the OIM preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of data records sent to the ETM and or received from the ETM. The OIM also preferably includes a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order price order quantity or other category so that those orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

In some embodiments the OIM or some other component may include a reasoning module. Such a reasoning module may determine why a particular order is present in an OMS database e.g. by asking a trader entering the order by receiving such information from a trader by searching strategy information that also may be stored by an OMS by analyzing trading behavior by receiving information from a risk model associated with a trader etc. . In some embodiments the reasoning module may be used to suggest and or enter orders for securities that fulfill reasons for other orders being present. Such functionality may be useful if an order would otherwise go unfulfilled and a reasonable alternative security is available.

Preferably the OIM transmits to the ETM data records in the OMS database relating to a trader s orders when the trader logs on to the ETM. Once the OIM determines that the trader has logged on to the ETM the OIM retrieves data records about that trader s orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database. In one embodiment the OIM converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM. In another embodiment this functionality is part of the ETM.

After a trader has logged on to the ETM the OIM determines whether the contents of the OMS database have changed. If the OMS database has changed the OIM determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM. In one embodiment the OIM continues to determine whether the contents of the OMS database have changed between the time that a trader logs on to the ETM and the time that the ETM commences trading. In another embodiment the OIM does not commence making this determination until the time that the ETM commences trading.

Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database do not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM. The OIM preferably transmits changes to the database to the ETM if the changes represent new or modified orders.

The OIM preferably updates the database in response to information received from the ETM indicating executed trades or other information. In a preferred embodiment if an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM converts the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS and updates the OMS database accordingly. As a result of these steps the OMS is updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM. The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker so no special functionality needs to be added to the OMS in order to interact with the ETM beyond that functionality described herein.

Although several embodiments may be described as involving traders it should be recognized that other embodiments may not involve traders in all the same ways as described or at all. Rather than involving traders in negotiations entering of trades in an OMS and or other actions some embodiments may be automated through a trading algorithm. Such a trading algorithm may control the entry of traders the negotiation of deals and or any other actions that would traditionally be controlled by one or more traders at a trading institution.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 136 834 to Merrin hereinafter Merrin et al. is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety including the specification of Merrin the prosecution file history of Merrin and any other material that provides meaning to any portion of the patent. Accordingly terms that have a meaning in Merrin e.g. based on the specification based on the prosecution file history based on other material that provides a meaning to the any portion of the patent etc. are intended to have the same meaning herein. Thus the person of ordinary skill in the art would understand terms used in Merrin and used herein to have the same meaning.

In some embodiments an ETM may be configured to couple to other ETMs and or other marketplaces. For example one particular ETM may be configured to facilitate trades between traders coupled to the particular ETM. That particular ETM may in some circumstances e.g. if no counter parties for a particular order is available at the particular ETM may transmit information about orders to another ETM to try to find counter parties through that other ETM. Accordingly one ETM may be able to avail itself of orders traders associated with other ETMs. Transmitting order information to other ETMs may be performed after asking a trader associated with a particular order if such transmission is acceptable and or according to a previously established trading preference of a particular trader. In some embodiments different ETMs may be configured to trade different things. For example one ETM may be configured to trade stocks and another ETM may be configured to trade derivatives. The coupling of such ETMs configured to trade different things may be particularly useful in embodiments configured to offer additional products and or services to traders based on knowledge regarding orders submitted by traders as discussed in more detail below.

The trading systems A B C are used by investment management firms or other entities that have established a relationship with the ETM . The trading systems communicate with the ETM to facilitate the trading of securities. As used herein a security is any ownership or creditorship interest such as a stock certificate or bond or any other financial instrument contract or transaction such as a forward futures option put call collar swap or currency contract. This definition includes for example any note stock bond debenture certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement or in any oil gas or other mineral royalty or lease any collateral trust certificate investment contract voting trust certificate certificate of deposit any put call straddle option or privilege on any of the foregoing or group or index of securities including any interest therein or based on the value thereof . This list is not all inclusive. For purposes of clarity this description will describe the trading of stock.

Within each trading system is a database A B C associated with an order management system OMS . Each OMS database holds data representative of open contemplated and or completed orders to buy and or sell securities collectively referred to herein as orders for securities by traders using the trading system . For example assume that the database A of trading system A contains orders to sell 50 000 shares of DELL and 75 000 shares of MSFT and orders to buy 25 000 shares of CPQ and 100 000 shares of IBM. Also assume that the database B of trading system B contains orders to sell 30 000 shares of CPQ and buy 62 000 shares of T.

The orders in the OMS databases may be automatically transmitted to the ETM . Likewise any changes in the orders such as modifications and or withdrawals may be automatically transmitted to the ETM . As used herein the term automatically means that the associated action is performed without any human or manual intervention. Thus there is no need for traders to specifically request that individual orders in the OMS databases are transmitted to the ETM orders in the databases are sent to the ETM without the traders input subject to filtering criteria .

In some embodiments orders in OMS databases may not be automatically transmitted to the ETM . Rather traders may individually select orders from an OMS database to be transmitted to the ETM . Because some trading firms may fear that information about some of the orders stored within their OMS databases may be used maliciously if that information is revealed using such selective transmission rather than automatic transmission may enable trading firms to keep particularly sensitive order information from being transmitted while allowing less sensitive order information to be transmitted.

Preferably the ETM anonymously transmits information about a trader s orders to other traders using the ETM subject to filtering in accordance with filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. Moreover the ETM preferably manages anonymous negotiations between traders using the trading systems for the purpose of executing the orders and sends data about the completed trades to the OMS s of the traders involved in the transaction.

Thus one embodiment of the present invention selectively broadcasts information about the orders received by the ETM from the database A of trading system A to the other trading systems B C. Likewise the ETM selectively broadcasts information about the orders received from the database B of trading system B to the other trading systems A C. If the traders desire such a trade the ETM will facilitate the anonymous negotiation and sale of 25 000 shares of CPQ from a trader using trading system B to a trader using trading system A.

In some embodiments an order from a first trader may be narrowcast to potential counter parties. To determine which other traders are potential counter parties the ETM may match the order from the first trader with orders received from other traders e.g. by security name type order size price etc. . If matching orders are available from other traders those traders may be identified as potential counter parties and information about the order from the first trader may be transmitted to those traders.

Data may be communicated between the trading systems and the ETM using interfacing links A B C. Any known interfacing technologies can be used to effectuate these links including but not limited to transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP satellite cellular and or radio frequency RF links or some combination thereof. The links may pass through one or more intermediate data processing systems such as telephone switches or Internet servers before reaching the ETM or a trading system . In embodiments where data travels over shared links such as embodiments where data travels over the public Internet the data is preferably encrypted using a secure protocol such as the secure sockets layer SSL .

Data received by the ETM from the trading systems over the interfacing links may be received by a firewall . As is known in the art the firewall preferably prevents unauthorized users from gaining access to the rest of the ETM and monitors transfers of data to and from the network.

Data that pass through the firewall may be received by one or more modules that perform the functionality of the ETM . As used herein the term module refers to machine executable code and or data but may also include associated circuitry such as processing circuitry as well as data storage areas and or any other software or hardware. Thus it will be appreciated that one or a combination of hardware and software such as a computer system executing software for performing the functionality of the modules may implement each of the modules shown in . It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the ETM may comprise one or more other types of modules circuitry etc. not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring understanding of the invention. For instance the ETM may include one or more microprocessors network connection circuitry and or data storage areas such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM CDROM DVD tape drive hard disk HD and or other types of storage areas. It will also be appreciated that the functionality of multiple modules described herein can be combined into a single module and the functionality of a single module can be split or shared among multiple modules. Moreover alternative embodiments of the present invention can lack one or more of the modules described herein and or have modules not described herein.

The ETM preferably includes an OMS data integration module ODIM . The ODIM receives and processes data representative of orders received from the OMS databases in the trading systems . In a preferred embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in a standardized format that requires little processing by the ODIM . In an alternative embodiment the data from the OMS databases are provided to the ETM in one or more different formats depending upon factors such as the type of OMS used by the trading systems the types of interfacing links supplying the data to the ETM the type of security or orders to which the data pertains and the like. In this latter embodiment the ODIM preferably converts the data into a standardized format for use by other modules in the ETM .

The orders processed by the ODIM may be stored in an ETM database . Data in the database are preferably accessible to the other modules in the ETM . In addition the other modules in the ETM can store other data in the illustrated database or other databases as may be required during normal operation.

In a preferred embodiment an indications module transmits information about orders received by the ETM among the various traders based upon filtering criteria established by the traders and or the ETM. This information is transmitted among the traders in the form of non binding indications.

Based upon these indications traders may be able to enter into negotiations with other traders through a negotiation module . The negotiation module may facilitate negotiations between traders using trading systems and having contra interests. In one embodiment at least parts of the negotiations are conducted anonymously in order to limit the spread of information about the traders activities.

A market data module may receive real time and or other market data from an input . The market data module may provide the market data to the negotiation module and or to the traders. The traders preferably use the market data during the negotiations to determining market prices for the securities.

A transaction history module may record transactions performed by the ETM in the database . The transaction history module also preferably records other data processed by the ETM including for example information about orders received from and sent to the trading systems and the negotiations conducted successful or not . This module is preferably used to audit the transactions conducted on the ETM .

In some embodiments the transaction history module may record transaction information as well as information about orders that were placed but unfulfilled. Such information may be used to provide products and or services to traders. For example information about a frequency of orders placed for a particular security may be recorded and used to inform traders about how liquid a market for the security has been historically and or how long an order may take to be fulfilled based on historic trades. As another example information about fulfilled transactions for a particular trader may be used to provide information about other goods or services that the trader may desire such as hedging opportunities related to the trades e.g. available futures trades on a same or different ETM that may be used to hedge an equity purchase etc. . As yet another example some embodiments may use recorded information to determine that major changes in a trading pattern of a security e.g. a major price drop a major change in liquidity etc. has occurred and use such information to adjust performance e.g. prepare for a major increase in trading activity offload orders to a different market pause acceptance of orders temporarily until trading has stabilized etc. trade on a security e.g. for an account fund associated with an ETM operator and or provide such information to traders.

A trader authentication module may authorize and or authenticate traders who log into the ETM in order to perform trading negotiations and or other functions. In one embodiment the trader authentication module stores authentication information such as a login ID password pair in the database . The trader authentication module also preferably stores profiles for the registered traders.

Other modules that may be present in the ETM include load monitoring modules for monitoring the load on various servers comprising the ETM fault tolerance modules for providing fault tolerance to the ETM security modules for preventing and detecting security violations on the ETM and back office modules for providing back office functionality. These modules are not shown in in order to avoid unnecessarily complicating the figure.

In a typical trading system that interacts with the ETM each workstation executes a trader OMS interaction module TOIM for facilitating interactions with the OMS server . In this typical trading system the TOIM allows a trader to add delete or modify open or contemplated orders stored in the OMS database . Contemplated orders may be stored in the OMS database for example because the trader intends to execute certain transactions in stages or because the contemplated transactions are desirable only if the market prices of the securities to be traded are within a certain range e.g. limit orders . Therefore such orders serve as placeholders indicating the total quantity of a security that a trader wishes to transact and conditions for transacting other orders other data in the database indicate the quantity of the security that has been transacted to date.

Each workstation may execute an ETM interaction module EIM for facilitating interactions with the ETM . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the EIM is incorporated into the TOIM or other modules on the workstation . The EIM allows a trader to send information to the ETM and view and respond to information received from the ETM . Typically the received information includes information about orders through the indications module and orders through the negotiation module that the ETM receives from other traders or trading institutions. The trader uses the EIM to enter into and transact negotiations to buy and or sell securities through the ETM .

The network connects the workstations to the OMS and to external networks such as the network in communication with the ETM . The network can utilize any networking technology that supports bi directional transfer of data among the OMS workstations and external networks. In a typical embodiment the network is a private local area network LAN installed at a financial institution and interfacing with one or more external gateways. In alternate embodiments the network may be wireless connect devices over a wide area and or at least partially carry data over a public network such as the Internet . Other network components such as a firewall may also be present. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many different types of networks can perform the functionality described herein.

The OMS is preferably comprised of one or more computer systems for executing and maintaining an order management system. The OMS receives instructions from the workstations to create modify and or delete orders and updates the database accordingly. Software providing the functionality of the OMS is well known in the art. Commercial OMS software packages are available from The MacGregor Group Eze Castle Software Advent Software and Decalog to name but a few. In addition some trading institutions utilize custom OMS software.

As described above the database may hold data representative of open contemplated and or completed orders to buy and or sell securities. is a diagram illustrating a data record stored in the database to identify an order according to one embodiment of the present invention. Different OMS systems utilize different order data records and therefore it should be understood that illustrates only one possible data record. However many OMS systems store the same general information and the illustrated order data record is intended to represent a typical order data record for an OMS system.

The order data record has multiple fields each field holding different information about an order. The Order ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the order associated with the data record . Similarly the Trader ID field preferably holds a value uniquely identifying the trader or other person who placed the order. The Order Status field identifies whether the order is open contemplated completed canceled or any other possible status. The next field Order Last Update Time preferably holds a timestamp that identifies the last time that the data record was modified in any way. This field is useful for determining whether the most recent version of the data record has been considered.

The Transaction Type field preferably indicates whether the data record corresponds to an order to buy or sell a security. The Security Symbol field preferably uniquely identifies the security to be transacted. The Security Symbol field can hold for example a Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures CUSIP number a ticker symbol or any other identifier of the security. The Security Type field is preferably used to interpret the other data in the data record according to the given security type. For example treasury bills are priced in terms of a discount to face value inherent in the pricing formula is the yield that would be obtained if the bill were held to maturity. In contrast equity securities are priced in actual per share values. The information in the Security Type field can also be used to filter out certain types of securities.

The Order Type field preferably indicates whether the order is a market or a limit order although the field can also indicate other order types. If the order is a limit order the Limit Price Field preferably identifies the price set by the trader.

The Total Order Size field preferably identifies the actual number of shares that the trader desires to transact. The Quantity Placed Elsewhere field is a value either equal to or less than the value in the Total Order Size field . In an embodiment of the present invention the ETM uses the values of these two fields to determine a quantity of a security if any that are available to be transacted by the ETM.

Preferably the OMS allows for the possibility that trading a large quantity of a given security may occur over several days at several different venues. For example to fill an order to buy 1 000 000 shares of IBM a trader may need to place an order for 300 000 shares with one broker and record numerous executions of portions thereof until the full 300 000 shares placed with that broker are purchased. If the broker cannot provide additional shares at a suitable price the trader may then place an additional quantity up to the 700 000 shares remaining to be purchased via another broker electronic marketplace or other venue. Preferably the broker enters a placement record into the OMS database to indicate that the trader anticipates executing a portion of the order through the second venue. This second venue may also fill the quantity it was asked to provide in several executions. Thus an order can have one or more placements and each placement can have one or more executions associated with it.

When a transaction is executed in a specified venue such as the ETM a corresponding execution record is preferably stored in the OMS database . is a diagram illustrating an execution record according to an embodiment of the present invention. An execution ID field preferably holds a value identifying the particular execution. As before the Order ID field preferably holds a value that uniquely identifies the order associated with the execution and all executions for the same order preferably have the same value in this field . The Broker field preferably contains an alphanumeric value identifying the venue that performed the execution. The Quantity Executed field preferably specifies the number of securities transacted in this execution while the Price field specifies the price at which the securities were executed. The Timestamp field preferably records the time at which the execution took place.

The OMS interfacing module OIM may be in communication with the OMS database via the network or a direct connection. In alternative embodiments the OIM is in communication with the OMS and or the workstations . The OIM may also be in communication with the ETM via an external gateway or some other form of network connection. In another alternative embodiment the OIM is integrated into the ETM and is remote from the OMS although some functionality is present at the OMS in order to provide OMS data to the OIM.

In a preferred embodiment the OIM includes a computer system storing and executing software for performing the functionality described herein. In an alternative embodiment the OIM executes on the same computer system as the OMS . In one embodiment the OIM includes an OMS database interaction module for interacting with the OMS database . The OMS database interaction module reads records stored in the OMS database and in a preferred embodiment creates and modifies data records stored in the OMS database . In one embodiment the OMS database interaction module directly accesses the OMS database and in another embodiment it sends commands to an applications programming interface API in the OMS for accessing the database.

The OIM also preferably includes an ETM communication module for communicating with the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM communication module automatically provides selected data records in the OMS database to the ETM and in a preferred embodiment receives data and or instructions from the ETM. In addition the OIM also preferably includes a data record conversion module for modifying the format of the data records sent to and or received from the ETM and a filtering module for filtering out specified orders by security type security name order type order quantity order price or some other factor or category so that filtered orders are not transmitted to the ETM.

Preferably the OIM waits until a trader logs on to the OMS before transmitting data records for that trader to the ETM . In one embodiment the ETM sends a message to the OIM when a trader at the institution in which the OIM resides logs into the ETM. The OIM interprets this message as a sign to commence receiving orders. In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM uses other techniques such as querying the OMS database for specific entries listening for an inter process message sent by the OMS polling individual trader workstations or implementing a timer based algorithm to determine that a trader has logged on to the OMS .

Once a determination is made that a trader has logged on to the OMS the OIM may retrieve data records about orders suitable for transmission to the ETM from the OMS database . In one embodiment of the present invention all open orders are suitable for transmission to the ETM . In other embodiments of the present invention the OIM through the filtering module makes the determination of suitable orders based on other criteria such as the security type e.g. stock or bond security name e.g. IBM or T order type e.g. market or limit order order quantity and or order price. In still other embodiments only orders selected by a trading firm e.g. by the trader associated with the OMS may be suitable for transmission.

If necessary the data record conversion module within the OIM preferably converts the data records retrieved from the OMS database into a standardized format understood by the ETM . As described above the functionality of the data record conversion module can also be performed by the ODIM in the ETM . Alternative embodiments of the present invention may send the data records individually or in multiple batches. The data transmitted to the ETM depend on factors such as the types of securities being traded and or the fields required in order to accurately trade such securities.

If the database has changed the OIM preferably determines whether the change should be transmitted to the ETM . Because typical OMS s are complex and multi featured and because securities of types not handled by the ETM may be traded using the OMS some changes to the OMS database may not necessitate a transmission of updated data to the ETM . Thus the OIM may determine whether the change to the database reflects a new order of a type that is traded in the ETM and in some embodiments other ETMs and or marketplaces coupled to the ETM . If so then the OIM may retrieve the pertinent data for the order from the database . If the change does not reflect a new order then the OIM preferably determines whether the database change pertains to a modification of an existing order that has already been sent to the ETM . If so the OIM may retrieve the data records corresponding to the modified order from the database . Once the appropriate data records if any are retrieved from the database the OIM preferably converts the data records into the appropriate format and transmits the records to the ETM as described above with respect to .

The OIM initially may determine whether an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM. The step may be performed for example by receiving a message from the ETM identifying a particular execution that occurred at the ETM by filtering a list of all executions or other data from the ETM for executions listed in the OMS or by periodically polling the ETM for performed executions.

If an execution occurred in the ETM involving an order in the OMS associated with the OIM the OIM receives information from the ETM describing the execution. This information includes for example the type amount and price of securities traded the time of execution and or information identifying the original order in the OMS database on which the execution was based. The OIM may convert the received information about the execution into the format used by the OMS . Then the OIM may update the OMS database with the converted execution data. As a result of these steps the OMS may be updated automatically and transparently to reflect executions performed at the ETM . The executions appear to the OMS as typical trades conducted at another broker.

In some embodiments information about orders in an OMS database and or any other information about a trading institution may be used to provide additional e.g. complimentary alternative products and or services to traders. The information about the orders may include the existence of the orders the existence of counter orders the lack of counter orders historical data about similar orders historical data about counter orders knowledge that an order was unfulfilled e.g. for some time period was removed from the system in an unfulfilled state etc. knowledge about a broader trading plan that may be embodied by specific orders e.g. knowledge that a particular order is present because of a desire to trade in a particular industry market capitalization etc. knowledge that an order was fulfilled knowledge that an order is now inactive e.g. was fulfilled expired was unfulfilled etc. information about a risk model and or any other information. In some embodiments such features may be available to premium users of an ETM e.g. users willing to pay a fee . The additional products and or service may be available through a single ETM and or additional ETMs.

In some embodiments an ETM OIM OMS and or other component may track e.g. determine when an order becomes inactive and store information about it unfulfilled orders e.g. expired orders and or orders that were removed e.g. removed from an OMS removed from consideration by the ETM etc. . The knowledge that an order was once placed and was not fulfilled may reveal that a trader associated with the order may desire a trade in a security associated with the order in the future. When new orders are received there may be no available counter parties currently trading in a security identified by the order. The existence of counter parties may be determined by searching e.g. through a listing maintained in a database of the ETM for matching offers received from a plurality of other traders using an ETM. In some implementations if no such parties are available unfulfilled orders may be used to find such parties. Such use of unfulfilled orders may occur after a new order has been active e.g. near an expiration time of the order after an indication that the order is being otherwise removed from the system is received etc. .

The use of such unfulfilled orders may include querying a party associated with the unfilled order or any other inactive order . Such query may ask if the party is still interested in a trade related to the security and or identify that a matching counter order is now available. The party may then reenter an order enter into negotiations with the party associated with the new order ignore the request and or take any other desired actions.

In some embodiments before such unfulfilled orders are used a party associated with the new order may be asked if such use is desired. To encourage the use of such orders for matching the party associated with the new order may be provided with statistics related to the usefulness of such orders. The statistics may be gathered by a transactional history module of an ETM and may include for example a percentage of times when such orders have successfully fulfilled an order and or any other desired information. The information may be selected at a degree of abstraction that is most convincing e.g. overall securities securities in a related industry a specific security a specific counter party etc. .

In some embodiments in which multiple unfulfilled orders exist priority may be given according to any desired priority mechanism. For example possible counter parties associated with larger orders may be queried first possible counter parties associated with most recently expired orders may be queried first etc.

In some embodiments counter party identities may be kept anonymous during part or all of a querying process associated with the use of unfulfilled orders. Also size of orders and or any other information related to new and or inactive unfulfilled orders may be kept confidential during the process until the counterparties choose to reveal such information.

Any number of unfulfilled orders may be tracked for any desired time period. For example in some embodiments some number of the most recently expired orders may be tracked. In some embodiments all unfulfilled orders may be tracked for some desired period. In some embodiments the tracking may relate to characteristics of the security. For example orders associated with a less liquid security may be tracked for a longer time than orders associated with a more liquid security.

Fulfilled orders may be tracked for use in fulfilling future orders in a substantially similar method to tracking unfulfilled orders described above. This may be useful because a trader that has previously traded in a security may be more likely to trade in that security again. The fulfilled orders may be fulfilled through the ETM and or through some other method e.g. a different marketplace .

In some embodiments if it is determined that no matching counter parties e.g. counter parties with orders matching the order in their OMS s are available e.g. a counter party is not found for an order e.g. after some time period near an expiration time for an order etc. alternative products and or services may be offered to a trader. The alternative products and or services may be based at least in part on a characteristic of an order entered by the trader. The desired characteristics may include for example market capitalization geographic area industry risk level profit to loss ratio volume of trades profit level sales level cash on hand amount analyst recommendation and or any other information. For example derivatives based on the security may be offered e.g. from other orders available to the ETM from another market etc. other securities may be offered e.g. securities with similar profiles such as capitalization industry etc. securities that were purchased by other traders who also placed similar orders e.g. after a similar order went unfulfilled securities that fulfill a desire associated with the order e.g. a desire to adjust a portfolio to include a particular industry etc. . In some embodiments information about how long an order may take to be fulfilled based on historical trading trends may be provided. Such information may encourage a trader to take an alternative to the order if the time is too long or wait for order fulfillment if the time is short.

In some embodiments an alternative product and or service may include a trade that is based on a reason for the order in the trader s OMS database. For example an ETM may receive information about the reason that the order is present in the OMS e.g. a desire to own a security in a particular industry and based on that reason may determine that an alternative available order may fulfill the same reason and offer that order as an alternative. In some embodiments a reason may be part of a broader trading strategy and or risk model that may be shared with the ETM so that the ETM may offer alternatives that more closely fulfill reasons embodied by the order and that fits into the broader trading strategy and or risk model.

In some embodiments if a matching order is found for an order additional e.g. complementary products and or services may be offered. For example the fact that an order has been at least partly fulfilled may be determined and in response an additional product and or service may be offered. The order may be fulfilled through the ETM and or through some other method and identified as fulfilled to the ETM e.g. through a status change in an OMS . The product and or service may be offered from a marketplace operator a participant of a marketplace and or any other source. For example a trader may be offered a hedging opportunity after an order for a security is fulfilled. Such a hedging opportunity may include a future related to the security. The hedging opportunity may be available through a different counter party on the same ETM e.g. may be found in similar fashion to finding an original counter party and or through another marketplace.

In some embodiments historical data about previous orders may be used to recommend additional products and or services. For example if a trader has a trade go unfulfilled the trader may be presented with an available order that was often entered by traders that also had similar orders go unfulfilled.

In some embodiments historical information may be used to adjust treatment of new orders. For example if an order is entered for a historically illiquid security additional avenues may be used to find a matching order such as prior traders who had entered orders for the security other marketplaces etc. In some embodiments other traders may be information of the existence of an order for an illiquid security. Traders may be encouraged to enter counter orders for illiquid securities through any desired incentivizing method. For example traders may be offered priority in liquid orders if they enter an order for an illiquid security traders may be offered rebates for entering such orders and or traders may be offered any desired incentive for entering such orders.

In various embodiments trades may be related to any desired currency or country e.g. stocks of U.S. companies stocks of Chinese companies British savings bonds etc. . In some embodiments a trader in one country may enter into a trade involving another country and or the currency of another country e.g. a U.S. trader may purchase debt of a Japanese company .

In some such embodiments additional products or services may be offered based on the knowledge of a currency associated with a trade. For example one or more currency trade contracts may be offered to a trader involved in such trading. A currency trade contract may act as a hedging instrument against volatility in currency markets. Such a contract may allow a trader to exchange the contract for some cash value if the currency associated with the trade changes in value compared to the trader s native currency. In some embodiments the availability of such contracts may be included as a negotiation option between traders when negotiating a trade. In some embodiments traders may trade in such contracts among each other independently of any other trade e.g. through the ETM and or some other marketplace . In some embodiments a trader may be offered such a contract as a service from a marketplace e.g. the operator of the ETM may offer such contracts for a fee as a service to users of the ETM .

Some embodiments may include participants from different time zones. Such participants may not always be active at the same time due in part to the differences in the time zones. Accordingly one or more mechanisms may be used to address these time zone differences.

For example in some embodiments participants may be able to establish automatic trading profiles that can be used to automatically negotiate accept and or reject trades during times when the participants are not active e.g. at night on holidays etc. . Such profiles for example may indicate that orders for securities in a certain price range should always be accepted and or any other desired actions should be taken.

In some embodiments active trading times may be tied to a particular market e.g. the New York Stock Exchange . By limiting trading to hours similar to a particular market participants may be sure that they can participate in trades by being present during that period of time.

In some embodiments a marketplace e.g. the ETM may determine if a participant is active and involve active participants in potential trades with some level of preference. Such determining may include monitoring a level of activity at a computer terminal presenting a query through a computer interface and or any other desired action. In some embodiments if a participant is not active e.g. has gone home for the day the participant may not be eligible to be part of a trade until the participant becomes active again. In other embodiments active participants may be given preference over inactive participants but inactive participants may still be offered an opportunity to be involved in trades.

In some embodiments if a matching order involves an active trader and an inactive trader a negotiation may be started between the two traders. The active trader may be informed that the inactive trader is inactive. The active trader may be given an estimate of when the inactive trader may be active e.g. an indication of a time zone difference historic data etc. . While waiting for the inactive trader to become active to enter into a negotiation the order associated with the active trader may still be used to search for other matches e.g. with other active traders . When the inactive trader returns to active status the previously inactive trader may enter into a negotiation about the trade with the previously active trader. The previously active trader may have gone inactive by the time the previously inactive trader becomes active. Because such a problems may occur due to time difference a negotiation may take a long time to complete. In some embodiments one or more sides of the negotiation may enter information to automate the negotiation e.g. preferences limit prices etc. so that the negotiation may complete in a shorter time.

Some embodiments may be limited to buy side trading participants i.e. investing institutions that tend to buy large portions of securities for money management purposes . Other embodiments may include buy side participants and sell side participants e.g. brokers retail analysts etc. . Buy side participants are typically protective of revealing trading intentions because of a fear of malicious market manipulation and a fear of revealing proprietary trading strategies. Some embodiments which allow sell side participation may include mechanisms to address such fears of buy side participants.

For example in some embodiments buy side participants may be able to opt out of trading with sell side participants. In some embodiments buy side participants may be able to establish filters that allow only some sell side participant orders to be traded with the buy side participants. For example filters may allow sell side participant orders for a sufficient amount of a security if the sell side agrees to a non negotiated fulfillment of the order e.g. according to a standard price such as the most recent traded price etc. and or if the sell side and or the sell side participant s order meets any other desired criteria of the buy side participant.

In some embodiments indications of one or more criteria for use in filtering orders may be received. The criteria may be used to establish appropriate filters so that orders not meeting the criteria are filtered. If orders do meet the criteria the orders may be presented to the market participant that established the criteria. In some embodiments the criteria may include a time related criteria e.g. when the order is received when the order may be presented to the market participant e.g. orders for XXX security may only be presented between noon and 2 pm etc. etc. . In some embodiments the criteria may include quantity related criteria an identification criteria a price related criteria a type related criteria an industry related criteria and or any other criteria.

Some embodiments may limit options available to sell side participants. For example sell side participants may only be able to enter binding orders. If a sell side participant s order finds a counter party in a buy side participant the sell side participant may be bound to fulfill the order. In some embodiments even though a sell side participant is bound to fulfill an order a negotiation for price and or quantity may still occur between a buy side participant and a sell side participant. In other embodiments no negotiation may be started but rather a trade may be facilitated without a negotiation e.g. if the buy side accepts the offer the trade may occur automatically according to a standard pricing mechanism for a quantity of securities identified in the sell side order etc. .

In some embodiments a request for acceptance of an order may be transmitted to one or more market participants e.g. buy side participants . In some embodiments such participants may receive the requests for acceptance of an order. In some embodiments the market participants may be allowed to respond to the request for acceptance within a limited amount of time. If the participant responds affirmatively to the request for acceptance within the limited time then an indication of acceptance may be transmitted and or an execution of a trade fulfilling at least a portion of an order may be facilitated.

In some embodiments a sell side participant may be required to enter a quantity of a security to be traded when entering an order. A sell side participant may be bound to that quantity if an order from a buy side participant matches the sell side order. In some embodiments the sell side participant may negotiate to increase the quantity but may be limited to the quantity as a minimum. In some embodiments a sell side participant may only enter orders above a threshold minimum quantity.

In some embodiments to avoid negotiations between sell side and buy side participants sell side participants may be bound to have their orders fulfilled according to a standard pricing mechanism. Such a pricing mechanism may include fulfilling the order based on a well known midpoint pricing policy and or any other desired mechanism.

In some embodiments when two sell side participants become counter parties to a trade they may not be restricted in the same manner as when a sell side participant is a counter party to a buy side participant. For example if two sell side participants enter a negotiation both may enter negotiations for price and or quantity even if such negotiations are limited or not allowed at all when a sell side participant and a buy side participant are counter parties.

In some embodiments parties with matching orders may enter into a limited negotiation. For example execution of a trade fulfilling matching orders may include a negotiation that does not include a negotiation about price and or a negotiation about quantity. A price for example may be determined using a VWAP midpoint and or any other desired pricing policy. A quantity may be determined based on quantities defined by the matching orders. If there are any other issues to be negotiated some embodiments may allow a negotiation for those issues e.g. time of execution platform to use for execution etc. 

In some embodiments evidence of actions things may be suppressed from one or more parties. For example in some embodiments when a determination is made that one order matches another order any evidence of that determination may be suppressed from one or more parties associated with the orders and or any other parties when a criteria for a filter is established any evidence of the criteria and or the establishment of the filter may be suppressed when a determination about whether an order meets criteria of a filter is made evidence of that determination may be suppressed. Such suppression of evidence may occur until some action occurs and or for some amount of time. For example in one implementation evidence that a first party s order matches a second party s order may be suppressed from the first party until and unless the second party decides to proceed with the order and or until the execution of the order is facilitated.

In some embodiments suppressing evidence of an event may include performing any action or not performing any action so that an observer is led to believe that the event did not occur. For example suppressing evidence may include performing one or more actions that would occur if the event did not occur e.g. transmitting requests transmitting indications that the event did not occur etc. transmitting misleading information regarding the event e.g. transmitting indications that the event did not occur transmitting indications that another event occurred transmitting information before the event and or after the event that obscure the occurrence of the event e.g. indications that the event happened earlier and or later so that the actually occurrence of the vent is obscured not transmitting information that the event occurred transmitting imitations information to mislead observers encrypting information transmissions using onion routing techniques obscuring a source of transmissions obscuring a destination of transmissions obscuring the timing of events and or any other actions.

In some embodiments an order may include an order to purchase or sell a quantity of a financial instrument. The side of the order may refer to whether the order is for a purchase or a sale of a financial instrument. Two orders may match if the orders are for the same financial instrument and are for opposite side of a trade for that financial instrument. Other criteria such as quantity price etc. may also be sued to determine if orders match each other.

In some implementations an order may indicate a price range in which a execution of a trade fulfilling at least part of the order is agreed. In such implementations a first order may match a second order if the two orders are for opposite sides of a trade for a single financial instrument and the two orders have at least partially overlapping price ranges. In some implementations an actual price of a trade may be determined according to a VWAP and or midpoint pricing model.

In some embodiments facilitating execution of a trade may include taking any actions which help to bring about the execution of a trade. In some implementations facilitating execution may include for example executing the trade beginning a negotiation between the first market participant and the second market participant that does not involve the price of the trade and does not involve the quantity of financial instruments in the trade transmitting information about the trade to a third party to execute the trade and or any other actions. Such actions may include centralized actions and or distributed actions.

In some embodiments one or more market participants may be charged a fee for use of a trading system. For example if matching orders are found and or facilitation of order execution is performed a fee may be charged to the parties related to the matching orders. In some embodiments some parties may be incentivized to use a trading system by providing a financial incentive regarding such fees. For example in some embodiments some participants may not be charged a fee orders meeting certain criteria may not be charged a fee some participants may be given a payment to submit orders and so on. Such incentivizing may help to increase liquidity in a market where certain participants may be otherwise unwilling to provide such liquidity.

In some implementations for example a portion of a fee charged to a first participant may be provided to a second participant. In some implementations providing the portion of the fee to the second participant may include paying at least part of a second fee for the second participant e.g. discounting the fee of the second participant by the portion . In some implementations providing the portion may include crediting an account of the second participant e.g. providing a payment to a financial account . In some implementations buy side participants may be given a discount and or a payment for use and sell side participants may be charged a fee. The fee charged to sell side participants may be sued to pay the discount or payment given to buy side participants. In some implementations when two buy side participants interact no discount no fee and or no payment may be made to either party. In some implementations the first party to submit an order may be given a discount and or payment.

In some embodiments various actions taken by traders and or information presented to traders may be taken presented through one or more user interfaces of computing devices. For example indications of orders negotiations etc. may be facilitated by user interfaces through which traders may interact. Traders may enter order information accept order requests establish criteria for filters etc. through suitable user interfaces of computing devices. In other embodiments such user interfaces may not be used and or needed to perform all of some of such actions e.g. computers may perform such actions without user interfaces etc. .

In summary the present invention includes an electronic trading marketplace that generates liquidity at least in part by receiving order information directly from the databases of OMS systems at trading institutions. Since orders are extracted from the OMS databases automatically and information about executed orders is inserted into the databases automatically the OMS databases see the marketplace as just another market intermediary. Moreover traders are able to conduct trades in the electronic marketplace without any duplicative manual efforts.

The above description is included to illustrate the operation of the preferred embodiments and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. From the above discussion many variations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art that would yet be encompassed by the spirit and scope of the invention.

