---

title: Solid state supersonic flow actuator and method of use
abstract: A method and device are provided for manipulating high-speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. More particularly, a flow control actuator device is provided that is capable of producing a pulsating synthetic jet with high exhaust velocities for manipulating high-speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. The high exhaust velocities of the actuator device may reach sonic levels of Mach 1 or greater. In one embodiment, the device may be constructed as an array of devices. In such an embodiment, each individual device is preferably reduced to a very small size. In such an embodiment, each individual device can then be fired in temporal patterns to create high-speed synthetic jets of air extending above the surface of the each device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07988103&OS=07988103&RS=07988103
owner: John Hopkins University
number: 07988103
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
This application claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. provisional applications Ser. No. 60 881 353 filed on Jan. 19 2007 and Ser. No. 60 886 155 filed on Jan. 23 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under United States Air Force contract number FA 9550 04 01 0095. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to the control of flow phenomena and more particularly but not exclusively to a robust flow control actuator capable of influencing supersonic boundary flow phenomena.

Active flow control is regarded as an enabling technology for many advanced air vehicle concepts under consideration. Effective manipulation of a flow field can lead to a number of significant benefits for aerospace vehicles including enhanced performance maneuverability payload and range as well as lowered overall cost. These macro benefits are directly achievable through the application of transition turbulence and flow separation. Organizations such as the United States Air Force and NASA continue to investigate the potential advantages of active flow control over more traditional aerodynamic techniques.

Steering an aerodynamic body results from inducing asymmetric body forces typically produced by some sort of flow control technology. In one approach commands from a control system vary the power into an actuator. As is well known to those skilled in the art of fluid dynamics flows over aerodynamic surfaces typically have a high sensitivity region where a minimum actuator input will produce a maximum fluidic change. The flow phenomena to be controlled could be related to laminar to turbulent boundary layer transition the separation of boundary layers or acoustic disturbances. It could also be related to the control of vortices jet vectoring mixing or steering. An actuator for controlling the flow phenomena can be constructed based on any one of a variety of existing technologies including for example fluidics thermodynamics acoustics piezo electric elements synthetic jets electromagnetics or Micro Electro Mechanical systems MEMS .

Presently several classes of micro actuators are under investigation for flow control applications associated with aerospace vehicle systems. A majority of these micro actuators use mechanical deflection of control surfaces mass injection or synthetic jets to manipulate boundary layer interactions. Other actuators manipulate electromagnetic fields in an attempt to control flow. Each has significant limitations for applications involving supersonic flows.

Mechanical actuators include electroactive polymers shape memory alloys electro active ceramics and MEMS. These actuators control flow by movement of a control surface to physically change the camber of an airfoil thus changing the lift of a wing for example. Manipulation of surface texture via MEMS tabs can induce vortices on the leading edge of a wing that affect its lift Mass injection devices include combustion driven jet actuators which burn a gaseous fuel air mixture. A chamber is filled with a combustible mixture and then ignited resulting in high pressures inside the chamber and mass expulsion through the chamber orifice. Combustion driven jet actuators require a considerable amount of auxiliary equipment to function. A fuel source is needed. Fuel must be pumped to the point of use metered for the proper fuel air mixture and injected into the combustion chamber. There a precisely timed ignition source must occur to ignite the fuel. The required fuel supply plumbing pumps metering devices fuel injectors ignition devices timing devices etc. significantly complicate this approach to jet actuators. Additionally it is difficult to perform these auxiliary tasks at the macro level required for the jet actuators.

Synthetic jet actuators are fluidic control devices that transfer momentum into the external system without net mass transfer. Actuators such as synthetic jets that operate without net mass transfer are known as zero net mass flux ZNMF devices. They have been shown to be effective for low speed subsonic flows but in the past did not have the required mass flow output and high frequency for supersonic flow applications. They typically use a piezo electric diaphragm in a cavity opposite an orifice. The oscillatory motion of the diaphragm alternately decreases the cavity volume expelling gas and then increases the cavity volume refilling the cavity with gas. The oscillation frequency of piezoelectric diaphragms are governed by their size displacement and mass. The smaller the diaphragm the higher the frequency at which it can oscillate. Unfortunately the smaller the diaphragm the smaller the diaphragm and mass displacement and thus the smaller the jet momentum flux. Since piezo electric diaphragms have a small displacement they need a large area to displace a useful amount of air from the cavity. This is counter productive to achieving the high frequency operation and limits the piezo electric units to low frequency operation of a few hundred cycles per second. Small piezo electric diaphragms can achieve frequencies in the kilohertz range but can t produce the displacements necessary to move enough air for effective synthetic jet operation. Large power supplies are typically required to achieve the high rate of change in voltage needed to drive these piezo electric devices. Additionally the device includes moving parts which can fatigue and fail.

Each of the afore mentioned actuators has significant limitations for applications related to supersonic flow control in terms of the combined operating frequency and momentum flux necessary for supersonic flow applications. Accordingly a need exists for a robust flow control actuator that is capable of influencing supersonic boundary layers.

Therefore the present invention has been made in view of the above problems. Accordingly the present invention provides a method and device for manipulating high speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. More particularly a flow control actuator device is provided that is capable of producing a pulsating synthetic jet with high exhaust velocities for manipulating high speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. The high exhaust velocities of the actuator device may reach sonic levels on the order of Mach 1 or higher. Further the momentum throughput i.e. mass flow is much higher than the piezo electric diaphragms of the prior art and the device qualifies as a zero net mass flux ZNMF device.

In one embodiment the flow control actuator device sometimes referred to herein as a repetitive spark micro actuator RSMA is comprised of a small chamber including at least two electrodes and a discharge orifice. In accordance with a method of operation the RSMA is capable of creating high pressure in the chamber by using an electrical discharge to create plasma inside of the chamber rapidly heating air and expelling it through an orifice. Pressure is relieved by exhausting the heated air through the discharge orifice. Sufficient driving pressure is created by the exhausted air to influence supersonic boundary layers. Unlike combustion driven jet actuators which require a fuel source limiting the operational life of the actuator the RSMA device of the invention recycles air and requires no fuel source. In this manner the RSMA is a zero net mass flux ZNMF device similar to a synthetic jet actuator and is distinguishable from a mass injection device.

In one embodiment the RSMA may be constructed as an array of such devices. In such an embodiment each individual RSMA is preferably reduced to a very small size for example on the order of 2 mm to 10 mm in an embodiment with associated electronics being similarly reduced and mounted to the back of an individual RSMA device. Given such an array a large number of capacitors can be simultaneously charged from a single main power supply. Each individual RSMA can then be fired in temporal patterns to create high speed synthetic jets of air extending above the surface of the RSMA.

As will be apparent the device of the present invention provides numerous advantages over conventional mechanical based devices. For example the RSMA are much smaller than mechanical actuators and contain no moving parts to fatigue and fail. The smaller weight and higher reliability allow weight savings quicker aerodynamic response and higher reliability over mechanical systems.

Beneficially the RSMA is capable of producing air jets with velocities at least an order of magnitude higher than other known synthetic actuators enabling new applications. Potential new applications include for example replacing fins on missiles steering munitions in flight without mechanical control surfaces airflow control in aggressive turn turbine engine inlets compressor blade tip leakage mitigation in gas turbine engines turbine blade tip leakage mitigation cargo bay resonance control for commercial and military aircraft steering control for high angle of attack missiles steering control for atmospheric re entry vehicles and steering control for maneuvering projectiles.

Further advantages of the invention include the ability to incorporate multiple RSMAs into easily formed RSMA arrays of actuators which can be operated individually or in patterns. By firing the individual RSMAs in pre defined temporal patterns high speed synthetic jets of air are expelled extending above the surface of the device to create an air curtain . RSMA arrays when placed at critical points and operated together can produce forces that can be used to replace aerodynamic steering devices by initiating macro scale effects. In one application arrays of RSMAs can be used to form a pressure seal between moving parts with small amounts of clearance between the parts such as the gap between the tip of a compressor blade and its housing.

In the following discussion numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known elements have been illustrated in schematic or block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a device and a method. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

The present application is generally divided into six sections. An overview is presented in the first section. A device description is provided in the second section. A single cycle of operation of the RSMA device is described in section three. Section four describes and illustrates different electrical circuits contemplated for use with the RSMA device . The fifth section describes representative electrodes. All of this is combined into complete arrays of devices which are described in section six.

In accordance with the present invention there are provided herein a repetitive spark micro actuator RSMA for manipulating high speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. In an embodiment the synthetic jet actuator is embodied as a cavity device for providing active flow control. Disturbances produced by such a cavity device take advantage of fluid phenomena such as transition turbulence and flow separation. Conversely these disturbances can also be used to study the development of such phenomena. For example electrical discharges in a recessed cavity have been used in experiments to generate artificial disturbances for the study of laminar to turbulent transition. The disturbance frequencies were at levels typically needed for active flow control.

The synthetic jet actuator of the invention provides capabilities for producing a synthetic jet with high exhaust velocities for manipulating high speed flows without moving aerodynamic structures. The synthetic jet actuator manipulates high speed flows without moving structures and generates exhaust streams capable of penetrating supersonic as well as subsonic boundary layers without the need for active mechanical components.

It is instructive to distinguish the synthetic jet produced by the RSMA device of the invention from other pulsating jets such as those commonly used in printers. Ink jet printer heads pulse liquid but rely on a reservoir of ink and use capillary action to suck a small amount of fluid ink into a cavity for each pulse. Because the ink jet permanently expels mass that is not recaptured and because the ink jet has a finite lifespan limited by its fuel capacity it is not classified as a synthetic jet. The synthetic jet produced by the RSMA device of the invention uses gas and unlike ink jets has no net mass exchange. As such its lifespan is theoretically infinite.

In one exemplary embodiment the RSMA device has an orifice diameter of substantially 0.33 mm 0.013 inches and a chamber volume of substantially 4.22 E 8 m. A capacitor potential of substantially 1000 Volts is used to initiate a spark inside of the chamber.

In the energy deposition stage stage 1 a very high electric current is discharged between two or more electrodes and within the chamber of the RSMA device. The electrodes are isolated and supported by an insulator . The discharge currents can reach hundreds of amps. This arc creates plasma rapidly heating the air inside of the RSMA device and creating a high chamber pressure which can range substantially from 300 to 1.000 PSI depending upon a particular design configuration. Chamber pressures in excess of 1000 PSI are also realizable.

In the discharge stage stage 2 the now pressurized gas in the chamber is expelled through the discharge orifice . As flow begins the discharge orifice quickly chokes within a few micro seconds and air is expelled from the device at a high speed on the order of the speed of sound. As the chamber air is expelled chamber pressure and temperature drop. The orifice eventually unchokes and the exhaust velocity decreases to zero.

In the recovery stage stage 3 the now depleted chamber draws fresh air from outside of the device into the chamber and cools. The cycle is complete and the device is ready to repeat the cycle.

While the electrode configuration of is simple in terms of its construction and operation it suffers from variations in breakdown potential. More particularly as voltage is applied by transformer and diode the transformer initially sees the main capacitor as a short circuit which loads the applied voltage down to zero volts. With time the capacitor is charged linearly and the voltage across the capacitor and the electrodes will rise. At the point in time the voltage exceeds the breakdown potential of the gap the arc across the electrodes occurs and the voltage on the capacitor drops again to zero. This cycle is constantly repeated as the main capacitor is charged by the transformer and diode and then discharged by the arc. A drawback of this configuration is that the time at which the discharge occurs depends only upon the spontaneous breakdown of the gap between the electrodes and is not controllable. Possible causes for such variations include for example electrode oxidation gas temperature gas pressure etc.

To further illuminate this drawback by way of example the first time the gap is fired the breakdown may occur at a given voltage for instance 8 000 volts. As the RSMA device heats up the device may break down at progressively lower voltages. In some cases one half of the initial voltage or less. With time the electrodes tend to oxidize and the breakdown voltage will rise perhaps to a level higher than the initial voltage. If a particle of oxide breaks off the breakdown voltage may return to a lower level. Since the energy in the capacitor which translates to the energy in the arc is given by CV where C is the capacitance in Farads this variation is breakdown voltage can result in substantial variations in arc energy e.g. larger than a factor of 10. It is noted that for the two electrode configuration that since the voltage at which energy deposition occurs is not controllable and the energy in the arc is proportional to the square of the voltage on the capacitor the amount of energy deposited in an individual actuator is not completely controlled or repeatable. The breakdown occurs at a random time and there is no provision in the circuit for remote control therefore the time of the discharge of an individual RSMA cannot be closely controlled or synchronized with other devices or other events.

The two electrode device requires a single power circuit output to function as both the main power for the arc within the RSMA and the trigger function. Since it requires thousands of volts to mach the breakdown potential the transformer diode and capacitor must be rated to continuously handle thousands of volts. These high voltage requirements adversely affect the size cost and reliability of the transformer diode and capacitor

To overcome the drawbacks cited above in an alternate embodiment the RSMA may include three or more electrodes. In such a configuration the power circuit is designed with multiple specialized outputs typically a main arc output and a trigger output. The trigger output must still reach several thousand volts but it can now be at a much lower amperage and exist for only a short time typically on the order of nanoseconds rather that needing to exist continuously. Confining the trigger output to a low power and a short time allows for smaller lighter more reliable components. Since the main arc supply no longer has to act as a trigger its voltage can be desirably lowered from thousands of volts to hundreds of volts. Beneficially this results in savings of better than an order of magnitude in size and weight for the main power circuit supplying the arc power.

The three electrode embodiment provides significant advantages over the two electrode embodiment. It should be understood however that for both the two electrode and three electrode embodiments the same power is needed to heat the air within the cavity see and create the jet of hot gases see . In the three electrode embodiment this is achieved at significantly lower costs smaller footprint and at a higher reliability. Specifically because the main power in the two electrode device is typically 6 kV vs. the 600V of the three electrode device the insulation on the wires and components of the two electrode device must be on the order of 10 time thicker that the three electrode device. Further due to additional insulation thickness and the need for additional magnetic material the 6 kV transformer of the two electrode embodiment will be much larger than the 600V transformer of the three electrode embodiment. Further if one diode is needed for the 600V transformer of the three electrode embodiment then the equivalent of 10 series diodes will be needed for the 6 kV transformer of the two electrode embodiment.

A typical 600V capacitor can be for example 0.256 0.217 0.217 or 0.012 cu. Inches. The 6 kV capacitor capable of the same energy storage will be 1.75 L by 0.75 D or 0.7731 cu. Inches or 64 times larger than the 600V capacitor.

It is well known to those skilled in the art that the insulation value of air is approximately 30 kV per inch thus the components in the 6 kV power supply require a spacing that is typically 10 times farther apart than in the 600V power supply. Moreover the higher voltage components of the two electrode embodiment are more expensive and less reliable than the lower voltage components of the three electrode embodiment. It is therefore shown that the combined advantages of smaller size lower weight closer component spacing lower cost and higher reliability show the advantage of keeping the main arc discharge voltage as low as low as possible thus favoring the three electrode embodiment.

The power required for the trigger is less than 1 100 the power in the main discharge. In the two electrode configuration the main power is generated at the high voltage i.e. 6 kV so that the main voltage will reach the required breakdown voltage of the electrodes. In the three electrode design the trigger voltage is generated separately via the use of a small dedicated trigger transformer. The size weight and cost of the trigger circuit are very small compared to using a 6 kV main power supply It is therefore shown that a power supply supplying power for the two electrode configuration is required to be on the order of 50 times larger more expensive and heavier than the three electrode configuration.

In an alternate embodiment to overcome the problems cited above in the two electrode configuration a third trigger electrode can be added to the RSMA device to initiate discharge across the main pair of electrodes. This is shown by way of example in . As with the two electrode configuration described above the potential of a capacitor is placed across electrodes within the cavity of the actuator. While the voltage is high it is not sufficient to cause an electrical breakdown across the air gap. To initiate discharge a second source with higher voltage but limited power is applied across the so called trigger electrode and one of the main electrodes within the actuator cavity. The trigger voltage initiates a limited power electrical breakdown in the RSMA chamber. The resulting ionized gas allows electrical breakdown between the main electrodes. The capacitor discharges into the chamber heating the air. This embodiment provides advantages over the two electrode embodiment in that it is possible to closely control the power and timing of each electrical discharge. The main capacitor is always charged to the same voltage and then sits waiting for a trigger to occur. The trigger electrode can be excited with a voltage much higher than that required to initiate breakdown eliminating the uncertainty of varying breakdown potential found with the two electrode configuration.

A control signal is applied to a solid state device such as an SCR and controls the switching of the current from the trigger capacitor into the primary of a trigger transformer . This generates an output voltage pulse from the trigger transformer of several thousand volts. The trigger voltage is applied to one or more of the electrodes of a RSMA having three or mare electrodes. The trigger voltage creates a small low energy high voltage arc between the two or more electrodes which causes the main capacitor which is only charged to hundreds of volts to discharge between the main electrodes . The energy in the main discharge completes stage the deposition stage as described above. It should be noted that one of the trigger electrodes can be electrically connected to one of the main electrodes to allow the RSMA to operate with three electrodes. Since the transformer diode and main capacitor are only charged to hundreds of volts rather than thousands of volts as in these components can be much smaller and less expensive and have increased reliability.

It is therefore shown that the multi electrode power supply designs as illustrated in reduce the amount of power required at the very high breakdown voltage required to trigger the gap and as a consequence reduce the weight size and cost of the electronics. The precise control of the trigger insures that the main capacitor is fully charged to the same energy level each time. Thus the pulses initiated from the RSMA device are reproducible in size and controlled in time.

Electrode design is an important aspect of the RSMA device of the invention illustrates a basic two electrode design according to one embodiment. The two electrodes are connected to the main output of the power supply . In operation a repetitive arc occurs between the tips of the two electrodes . Since the arc occurs at the electrode tips the arc will remain at the tips creating a localized hot spot on the tip of the electrodes. Localization of the arc will erode the electrodes over time and the electrode gap becomes undesirably wider. A wider gap will require an undesirably higher voltage to initiate further arcing. This greatly contributes to the non repeatability of the two electrode design. To overcome these and other drawbacks the invention further contemplates the use of a three electrode design which includes the two electrodes of the two electrode configuration plus an additional third electrode referred to herein as a so called trigger electrode described as follows as shown in labeled . In operation an arc is initiated when a trigger voltage which is typically on the order of thousands of volts jumps from trigger electrode to main electrode . This ionizes a portion of the gas in the cavity located between the two main electrodes . This ionization of the gas causes the main capacitor to discharge across the main electrodes .

One advantage of the three electrode embodiment is that only the output of the trigger transformer the transformer sourcing the trigger electrode is required to be rated for thousands of volts.

It should be understood that while illustrate a single set of main electrodes in other embodiments two or more sets of main electrodes can be serviced by a single trigger electrode . The geometry of the arrangement of three or more electrodes can be adjusted in three dimensions. One such arrangement is illustrated in .

In operation the power supply electronics generates a voltage of several hundred volts to simultaneously charge capacitors across the main power electrodes of each RSMA in the RSMA array . Upon receiving a command from the electronics a trigger signal is output to the trigger transformer within the electronics which creates a trigger voltage of several thousands of volts across the trigger electrode s. The voltage on the trigger electrodes ionizes enough air within the cavity to cause the breakdown voltage within the cavity to be lowered resulting in the main capacitor discharging across the main power electrodes. This causes a rapid heating of the air within the cavity which rapidly increases the pressure within the cavity and causes air to be expelled out of the orifice at supersonic velocities. After the high temperature air has been discharged from the chamber the ensuing pressure differential pulls fresh cool air in from outside of each RSMA device . At this point the RSMA device is ready to repeat the cycle.

The RSMA arrays can be fabricated in a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment the body of the array can be machined from one or more pieces of machineable ceramic material. Holes can be drilled to support the insertion of the electrodes and to form the orifice. The pieces thus machined can be joined to form an array in any shape or pattern desired.

In an alternative embodiment the body of the array can be formed by pressing ceramic powders in a mold to achieve the desired shape cavities orifices etc and then fired to create the desired finished array. Electrodes can be inserted before or after firing as desired. Alternatively individual sheets of ceramic powders held together with an organic binder can be punched with the needed cavities and orifices. Additional layers can have metal lines drawn upon them to form conductive traces and electrodes. These layers would be stacked onto one another to form a green tape stack which will create the total geometry desired. Next the stack would be fired in an oven to bake out the organic binder leaving behind a solid block of ceramic containing the completed RSMA Array .

In another embodiment the RSMA array can be created by placement of ceramic potting material into a mold where it would be allowed to cure to create the final array housing part s .

Referring now to there is shown a side view of the RSMA array of It can be seen that as the air flows from right to left across the surface of the RSMA array the flow is smooth at some distance d above the surface of the RSMA array . During the operation of the RSMA array the array generates a pulse of supersonic air perpendicular to the surface over which the air is flowing. When a leading row of RSMAs of the RSMA array is pulsed i.e. activated it promotes mixing within the boundary layer and in some cases causes the freestream lines to divert in an upward direction thereby virtually changing the shape of the surface. It is understood that only one RSMA of the leading row of RSMAs is shown in The other row members are aligned in the z direction i.e. into the page .

With continued reference to as further rows of RSMAs are pulsed in a linear sequence the air interacts with the pulsing effluent from the RSMAs causing vortical structures to form and propagate downstream. These disturbances enhance mixing and energize the boundary layer so that 1 impending flow separation can be postponed preventing the significant pressure drop along the surface to be encompassed by the separation zone or 2 laminar to turbulent transition can be hastened.

Alternatively if the rows are positioned at a different location on the aerodynamic surface and the rows of RSMAs are pulsed in a sequence the air is diverted further upward from the surface. For example rows etc. . . . may be pulsed in a linear sequence to cause the air flow to be continuously diverted in an upward direction as shown. It should therefore be apparent that if the rows of RSMAs are rapidly pulsed in the sequence described the diverted air never has time to re establish itself as a linear flow field.

It should be understood that the direction of the force vector can be controlled by controlling the selection of the pattern in which the RSMA elements in the RSMA array are activated. By combining the control of displacing the boundary layer discussed above with respect to and force vector control as presently described it should be apparent that many aerospace applications can be realized. For example varying amounts of boundary layer displacement could change the shape of an aerodynamic surface such as an airplane wing. This would allow control of the lift of the wing by the use of RSMA arrays rather than the use of the present wing flaps. As a further example varying amounts of boundary layer displacement and force vectoring could allow RSMA arrays to replace the movable part of an airplane rudder. The astute reader can now readily envision other applications for such boundary layer and force vector control.

A typical aerodynamic body is shown in by way of example. Air is shown flowing from left to right over the surface of the body in the The air not in line with the body will flow smoothly from left to right. As the air approaches the leading edge of the body the air is forced to change its horizontal movement and bend around the surface of the body . A portion of the air will go over a top surface of the body and another portion will go over the bottom surface of the body . The air in close proximity to the surface of the body is affected by friction forces between the surface and the air and is termed the boundary layer. Ideally it is desired that the air smoothly flow over both the top and bottom of the surfaces and remain attached to the surfaces until it passes the trailing edge of the body where it then resumes its horizontal flow . However if the boundary layer becomes separated from the surface of the body a region of constant pressure is created typically lower than the pressure if the flow were attached. Within this low pressure zone the air is re circulated and vortex shedding can occur. An unintentional separated flow causes an undesirable imbalance in pressure forces in the flow direction called pressure drag upon the aerodynamic body. This type of vortex shedding causes repetitive unsteady forces on the body which lead to structural fatigue on the aerodynamic structure. Additionally since the pressures on the aerodynamic body are less on the trailing edge than on the leading edge the body will experience a torque around some axis causing the leading edge to be depressed and the trailing edge to rise up .

If RSMA arrays are placed along the surface of the aerodynamic body and activated in the appropriate pattern then the flow over the trailing edge would be affected is such a manner so as to reduce adverse boundary layer separation thereby reducing drag. Alternatively the RSMA array could be activated in such a pattern to increase drag thereby slowing the aerodynamic body and cause a torque around some axis resulting in changing the direction of flight without the use of moving structures.

It has been shown that the RSMA device of the invention can cause the boundary layer to shift upward downward or add angular momentum to the boundary layer. An understanding of how the flow characteristics change in the boundary layer in subsonic and supersonic flows over an aerodynamic surface allows placement of individual RSMA devices at critical locations on the surface. Once placed subsequent activation of the RSMAs upon command beneficially changes the virtual or effective shape of the surface in accordance with the requirements of a particular application.

While the invention has been described with reference to an example embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that a variety of modifications additions and deletions are within the scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

