---

title: Fairing removal tool
abstract: A fairing removal tool and a method of using the tool provide for an improved method of removing a fairing from an engine inlet case. The fairing removal tool employs a hook and notch to engage the fairing and release the bonds joining the fairing to an inner structural element of the inlet case.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225477&OS=08225477&RS=08225477
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08225477
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080313
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

Fairings are often present in the inlet case of aircraft turbofan engines. A fairing is generally bonded to and surrounds and protects an inner strut or other similar structural element within the inlet case. Each inner strut generally extends from a central inner ring to an outer diameter ring of the inlet. Each fairing typically surrounds the full radial length of the inner strut. Composite fairings typically consist of several layers of fiberglass or other materials bonded together to form the fairing structure. Each fairing has a closed and generally rounded upstream end. From the upstream end two fairing sides extend downstream and around the inner strut. The sides of the fairing are bonded to sides of the inner strut and continue downstream to form two downstream ends. Fairings and inner struts are generally located upstream of the compressor combustion and turbine sections of the turbofan. In some turbofans the fairings contain sensors and heating elements to prevent the formation of ice within the inlet case and to de ice areas of the inlet case.

During operation of the turbofan and during flight a fairing or its heating elements may become damaged or inoperable. Damage to the fairing or the heating elements may occur due to events such as a bird strike. Inoperability may result because of wear or malfunction. When significant damage to a fairing or its heating elements occurs or the heating elements no longer function properly the fairing is normally removed and replaced.

Removing a fairing from the inner strut to which it is bonded can be an arduous task for an aircraft mechanic or operator. In order to remove a fairing from an inner strut the bond between the two components must be released. Typically a silicone compound is used to bond the fairing and inner strut. The bondline between the fairing and inner strut typically extends the full length of the inner strut along the turbofan s longitudinal axis and roughly two thirds the length of the fairing along the same axis . This bondline generally extends the full radial length of the fairing and inner strut. Due to the relatively large surface area of the bond and the strength of the bond needed to ensure adequate binding during flight releasing the bond can be quite difficult.

Until now removing a fairing has been difficult. A large number of inner struts extend from the nosecone to the outer diameter ring usually more than a dozen. This configuration of multiple inner struts and fairings as well as components farther downstream makes for small spaces within the inlet case and prevents the use of large tools. Typically a screwdriver type prybar or a similar small tool was used to pry the fairing away from the inner strut. A utility knife or other small blade was then used to cut away at the bondline. This method of releasing the bond had several faults. First screwdriver type prybars generally have a limited thickness and an operator would need to pry many times along the radial length of the fairing in order to release the fairing strut bond. On occasion an operator would need to pry multiple times in a small area to fully release even a portion of the bond. A typical operator might spend fifteen or more minutes using this method to remove a single fairing. Additionally due to the time necessary to remove the fairing and the awkward angle at which the operator needed to use a prybar to pry apart the bond fairing removal was performed only while the operator was on the ground. Second an operator would have to reach a good distance beyond the downstream ends of the fairing in order to position the screwdriver type prybar to adequately pry. In some instances this would require the additional removal of downstream components such as the first set of compressor vanes before a fairing could be removed. The downstream components would then need to be replaced once the fairing was removed. This increased the time needed to remove and replace a fairing. Third damage to the inner strut would sometimes result from the use of a prybar to pry the fairing from the strut. When damage to the inner strut occurred the inner strut would then need to be repaired or replaced.

Prior fairing removal methods and tools did not meet the needs of aircraft mechanics and operators. Thus there is still a need for a faster and more efficient method of removing a fairing from an inlet case and still a need for a useful tool to facilitate such a method.

The present invention provides a fairing removal tool and a method suitable for removing a fairing from an engine inlet case. In one disclosed embodiment the fairing removal tool includes a handle a shaft and a head. The head includes a prying radius a hook near an end of the head distal to the handle and a notch located between the hook and the prying radius configured to engage a downstream end of a fairing. The method of removing a fairing entails engaging the hooked end of the fairing removal tool to an overhanging downstream end of a fairing and applying a force on the shaft or handle of the tool to pry the fairing away from the inner strut to which it is bonded. This process is repeated along the length of both downstream ends of the fairing until the bonds between the fairing and the inner strut are completely released and the fairing can be removed from the engine inlet case.

Referring to the figures an illustrative embodiment of a fairing removal tool according to the present invention is generally indicated by reference numeral . illustrate a side view and a top view of one embodiment of a fairing removal tool respectively. The fairing removal tool includes a handle a shaft and a head . The handle allows an operator to easily grip the fairing removal tool. The handle may be contoured to fit comfortably in an operator s hand. The handle may also be shaped textured or covered with a non slip material so that an operator may easily grip the handle securely with a minimum of slippage when the fairing removal tool is in use. The shaft connects the handle to the head .

The head includes a prying radius . While the fairing removal tool of has a generally curved convex prying radius the fairing removal tool of the present invention is not limited to this configuration. The prying radius may also have a flattened V shape or other geometries suitable for providing a fulcrum or fulcrums necessary for effective prying.

The prying radius may include an effective prying area and a prying relief . The effective prying area is the area of the head that contacts the fairing as it is removed. Contact points along the effective prying area act as fulcrums as the fairing is pried from an inner strut. A more detailed discussion of fairing removal is provided below. In an exemplary embodiment the effective prying area will have a length approximately equal to the length of the bond between the fairing and the attached inner strut. In such an embodiment the entire or nearly the entire effective prying area can be utilized as a fulcrum during release of the bond joining the fairing and inner strut. The prying relief is the area of the fairing removal tool head that does not directly contact the fairing during fairing removal.

The head also includes a hook near the end of the head distal the handle and a notch located between the hook and the prying radius . The hook and notch are configured to engage a downstream end of a fairing allowing an operator to pry and disengage the bond between the fairing and a joined inner strut or a similar structure bonded to the fairing. The hook and notch allow an operator to easily position the tool on a downstream end of a fairing. illustrates a fairing removal tool engaged to a downstream end of a fairing that is bonded to an inner strut . The downstream end of the fairing is positioned within the notch of the fairing removal tool during use.

As illustrates when the downstream end of the fairing is engaged with the fairing removal tool the inner side of the fairing abuts the hook and the end and outer sides of the fairing are located within the notch . Ideally the hook and notch are configured so that when the fairing removal tool is engaged to a downstream end of a first fairing an adjacent fairing does not interfere with the shaft and the handle of the fairing removal tool as shown in . Thus an operator may both position the fairing removal tool on the downstream end of the fairing and operate the tool without interference from adjacent fairings. This is accomplished most easily near the outer diameter ring where adjacent struts and fairings are spaced apart farthest. Closer to the central inner ring however the struts and fairings are closer together. In an exemplary embodiment the hook and notch are configured so that even near the central inner ring an adjacent fairing does not interfere with the shaft and the handle of the fairing removal tool when engaged to a fairing. Additionally the hook and notch do not interfere with the first variable vanes .

The fairing removal tool acts as a first class lever. Release of a bond between a fairing and an inner strut is accomplished by first engaging a downstream end of the fairing with the hook and notch of the fairing removal tool as illustrated in and described above. Once engaged the operator applies force to the handle or shaft of the fairing removal tool generally in a direction toward the longitudinal axis of the fairing as shown in to pry the fairing away from the inner strut. As force is applied to the handle or shaft the downstream end of the fairing is pulled by the hook away from the inner strut . During prying the downstream end of the fairing is pulled along the prying radius . As the fairing is pulled the bond between the fairing and inner strut is released. In an exemplary embodiment the length of the bond is about equal to the length of the effective prying area of the prying radius . The length of the bond between the fairing and inner strut is typically between about 2 inches 5.1 cm and about four inches 10.2 cm .

A fairing is typically bonded to an inner strut along both downstream sides . Thus bonds along both sides of the inner strut must be released before the fairing can be completely removed. The process described above is performed on both sides of the fairing until both bonds are released. Once both bonds are released the operator may fully remove the fairing from the inner strut and the engine inlet case.

Dimensions of one exemplary embodiment of the fairing removal tool are provided below. The description of this embodiment does not impose limitations on other possible configurations and dimensions of the fairing removal tool or its components however. The overall length of one embodiment of the fairing removal tool is about eighteen inches 45.7 cm . The lengths of the handle shaft and head are about four inches 10.16 cm ten inches 25.4 cm and four inches 10.16 cm respectively. The width of the head is about one inch 2.54 cm . The depth of the notch is about 0.1 inches 0.254 cm and the width of the notch the distance from the hook to the prying radius is about 0.07 inches 0.178 cm . The angle of the notch relative to the longitudinal axis of the fairing removal tool is about thirty degrees. The width of the head may affect the number of pries necessary to release the bondline between a fairing and an inner strut. Thus head widths between about 0.5 inches 1.27 cm and about two inches 5.08 cm may be suitable for smaller or larger engine inlet cases. The fairing removal tool and its components may be comprised of steel or any other materials strong enough to facilitate the fairing removal process.

The configurations of the fairing inner strut and the fairing removal tool allow an operator to work from the front of the engine inlet without the need for the operator to position his hand downstream of the fairing. The design of the fairing removal tool also allows fairing removal without the need for removing engine inlet components downstream of the fairing and inner strut such as the first row of variable vanes. The design of the fairing removal tool further allows an operator to engage in fairing removal from the ground or while on the wing of the aircraft near the engine inlet.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

