---

title: Permeable hull to mitigate impact load in water
abstract: The invention is directed to an apparatus for mitigating the load impact on a surface watercraft and passengers therein, during high speed travel. The hull includes a damping cavity for mitigating the load impact on the surface watercraft. The damping cavity is positioned on a dry portion of an undersurface of the hull between a forward end and an aft end of the hull. The damping cavity includes a porous plate on the undersurface, and a deck plate within the hull body. The deck plate and the porous plate are separated by a gap, and an inflatable bladder may be positioned in the gap between the plates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966959&OS=07966959&RS=07966959
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07966959
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus for damping the wave slamming on a surface watercraft and in particular a surface watercraft hull having a porous portion within a section of the undersurface of the hull for dissipating wave impacts during high speed travel.

U.S. forces use small high speed boats for military purposes in coastal areas. These boats are typically about 30 70 feet long and operate in a planning mode around 40 to 50 knots. Boats of similar size and mechanical specifications may also be used in the private sector for non military purposes such as recreation. However because of the size of the boats and the speed at which they travel these craft experience high shock acceleration levels when traveling through waves which results in injuries to passengers. Passengers may experience repetitive trauma resulting in acute injury to the lower back knees and neck.

At high sea states craft accelerations in excess of 7 to 10 g s have been reported. Laboratory tests of slamming ship models show acceleration levels from 4 to 6 g s. It is therefore desired to reduce shock levels that these boats and their passengers experience. It is furthermore desired to incorporate a shock damping arrangement into the boat design.

In one aspect the invention is a surface watercraft having a hull. The hull has an upper portion a lower portion a forward end and an aft end. The hull further includes a shock damping cavity in the lower portion between the forward end and the aft end. The damping cavity has a non planar porous plate having a first edge and a second edge. The damping cavity also includes a deck plate having a first edge and a second edge. According to invention the first edge of the deck plate is attached to the first edge of the non planar porous plate and the second edge of the deck plate is attached to the second edge of the non planar porous plate thereby forming a cavity enclosure.

In another aspect the invention is a shock mitigating high speed surface watercraft. The high speed surface watercraft includes a hull having an exposed undersurface. The exposed undersurface has a wet region extending from an aft end of the hull defining the region of the hull that supports the watercraft when the high speed watercraft is traveling in at planning mode velocity. The exposed undersurface further includes a dry region extending from a forward end of the hull towards the wet region defining the region of the hull that is above a water level when the high speed watercraft is traveling at the planning mode velocity. In this aspect the high speed surface watercraft further includes a damping cavity. The damping cavity has a non planar porous plate forming a part of the exposed undersurface positioned in the dry region of the exposed undersurface. The non planar porous plate has a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge. The surface watercraft further includes a deck plate within the hull having a first longitudinal edge and a second longitudinal edge. In this aspect the first longitudinal edge of the deck plate is attached to the first longitudinal edge of the non planar porous plate and the second longitudinal edge of the deck plate is attached to the second longitudinal edge of the non planar porous plate thereby forming a cavity enclosure within the hull.

In the arrangement of slamming occurs when a forward portion BC of the undersurface contacts a wave . The forward portion BC is located within the dry portion ABC. As will be outlined below the shock load on the watercraft is reduced by including a perforated permeable or irregular surface in the underside in the forward portion BC.

Returning to as shown the surface watercraft has a height h between the porous plate and the deck plate . The height h may typically be about 3 inches to about 4 inches. However in some applications the height h may be less than 3 inches or may be greater than 4 inches. also shows the hull having a length L which may be about 30 feet to about 70 feet long. In some applications the length L may be less than 30 feet or more than 70 feet. Larger L values typically require large h values. Additionally the damping cavity has a length C which is typically but not limited to about 20 to about 45 of the length L.

As shown in the porous plate is non planer and has a substantially V shaped cross section thereby forming a cavity enclosure having a substantially triangular cross section with end plates and also having a substantially triangular cross section. However as stated above the non planer shape of the porous plate is preferably commensurate with the overall shape of the undersurface of the hull . Thus depending on the shape of the undersurface the porous plate may have other non planar sections such as arc like or U shaped sections. Alternatively the plate may be planar thereby having a flat section. It should be noted that end plates and have shapes that match the sectional shape of the porous plate . The porous plate may be made from aluminum or fiberglass and the like and the deck plate may be made from materials similar to that of the remainder of the hull.

As shown in the bladder includes an air tube that extends through a bladder hole in the deck plate . The bladder hole is dimensioned so that there is a water tight seal between the bladder hole and the air tube thereby preventing the leakage of water from the lower body into the upper body . The air tube is provided to fill the bladder with air or other gases to inflate the bladder and make its shape conform to the interior dimensions of cavity . Inflating the bladder increases the buoyancy lost in the damping cavity by displacing the water. The bladder may also provide additional energy absorption to mitigate shock load. The gas pressure in the bladder may be varied over a range of values for optimal shock load damping. Additionally the bladder may be pressurized to effectively seal off the holes of the porous plate and return it to a relatively smooth condition and eliminate any additional drag the holes may cause when the surface is calm and the porous section is not needed. Although illustrates a single bladder the single bladder may be replaced by a plurality of bladders within the cavity enclosure.

In operation the above outlined damping cavity significantly reduces the load impact on surface watercrafts and passengers in the crafts. are explanatory figures with showing the load impact on a rigid hull in the absence of porous plates. The impacts of the waves on the hull are represented by arrows. shows the a reduced load impact on a porous hull structure as provided by porous plates In the porous hull structure is essentially a damping cavity having a porous plate and a deck plate similar to the porous plate and deck plate shown in . further shows porous plate holes which as outlined above may be regular irregular or a combination thereof. The upward arrows in represent force vectors acting on the different surfaces. With respect to the load impact on a rigid hull structure Vr denotes the wave impact velocity. The impact load F is an integration of surface pressure P t on the boat s rigid surface and can be estimated by equation 1 as 1 2 1 In equation 1 A denotes the rigid hull area as shown in . The dynamic coefficient k relates the dynamic pressure and the impact load. is the water density.

With respect to the hull including a porous plate and a deck plate with an empty space between the elements as shown in let the porous plate have a porosity of 50 as an example. Other porosity values may be used. The waves will first impact the porous surface . Note that the porous surface has a rigid area of 0.5 A. Fdenotes the first impact load on the porous surface and is expressed by equation 2 1 2 0.5 2 The first impact load Fwill be 50 of impact load F on the rigid hull as shown in equation 3 F 0.5F 3 The second wave impact will transmit to the deck plate directly. As flow passes through the porous openings or holes the flow will experience energy loss. Because of energy losses the relative velocity impinging on the deck plate is less than Vr and may be denoted as Vr . It should be noted that in damping cavity arrangements that include an inflatable bladder as shown in as the flow passes thorough the porous openings the inflatable bladder causes the flow to undergo additional energy loss. Thus in damping cavity arrangements as shown in there is also a Vr value less than Vr because of energy absorption in the bladder or foam . The second impact load Fon the plate can be expressed by equation 4 1 2 0.5 

Another important mechanism of embodiments that do not include inflated bladders is the gap between the hull surface and the deck plate. The impact load Fwill occur later than F because Fand Fare not acting on the craft at the same time. The singular impact F that would occur with a rigid hull is split into two impacts separated by a time interval that prevents their summation to a single value. The net impact load can thus be greatly mitigated.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example although illustrates only three different regular porous plate patterns other porous plate patterns including irregular patterns and combinations of regular and irregular patterns may be incorporated. Additionally although the figures generally show one inflatable bladder per damping cavity damping cavities may have a plurality of inflatable bladders. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

