---

title: System, method, and apparatus for information extraction of textual documents
abstract: A method and system for text extraction employs structured annotations that are embedded within a text document and specify the start and end of a document segment and an associated rhetorical relation. The structured annotations are processed to generate and store variables that represent document segments and associated rhetorical relations. A user interacts with a computer to define query input that specifies at least one rhetorical relation of interest. The query input is processed to query the stored variables to identify document segments associated with a rhetorical relation that matches the rhetorical relation of interest and to return to the user information pertaining to the matching document segments. The rhetorical relation of interest as well as the stored variables can include RST relations whose meaning is dictated by nuclearity of the associated text as well as Speech Act relations whose meaning extends beyond the situational semantics of the associated text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937386&OS=07937386&RS=07937386
owner: Complyon Inc.
number: 07937386
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
This invention relates broadly to methods and systems for extraction of text from documents. More particularly this invention relates to methods and systems for tagging documents with annotations and for extracting text from documents using such annotations.

There are many domains where users search a large number of text documents and or one or more large text documents for content of interest. Such domains include legal research and analysis as well as scientific research and analysis.

The present invention provides a methodology system and apparatus for extraction of text from a set of text documents in an efficient and accurate manner.

In accordance with the present invention a document is annotated with embedded tags corresponding to document segments therein by identifying a plurality of document segments within a given text document. For each document segment at least one structured annotation is embedded within the document and associated with the given segment. The structured annotation specifies the start and end of the given document segment and a rhetorical relation associated with the given segment. The structured annotations are processed generate a plurality of variables that represent document segments and associated rhetorical relations as specified by the structured annotations and such variables are stored in a data repository.

A user interacts with a computer to define query input that specifies at least one rhetorical relation of interest. The query input specified by the user is processed to query the variables stored in the data repository to identify zero or more document segments that are associated with a rhetorical relation that matches the at least one rhetorical relation of interest specified by the query input. Information corresponding to the zero or more matching document segments is returned to the user.

In the preferred embodiment the rhetorical relations represented by the user supplied query input as well as the variables stored in the data repository include a set of RST relations whose meaning is dictated by nuclearity of the associated text. Such RST relations can include a plurality of mononuclear RST relations each having a nucleus and a satellite and a plurality of multinuclear RST relations each having a plurality of nucleus. The rhetorical relations represented by the user supplied query input as well as the variables stored in the data repository can also include a set of Speech Act relations whose meaning extends beyond the situational semantics of the associated text.

The structured annotations embedded in a given document can be derived from expert analysis of the given document preferably with the assist of a computer based markup tool or though automated means as described herein.

It will be appreciated that the methodology system and apparatus of the present invention provide for extraction of text from a set of text documents in an efficient and accurate manner suitable for a range of expert domains which include for example legal research and analysis scientific research and analysis and journalist research and analysis financial research and analysis business research and analysis FDA Administrative Panel transcript research job interviewing as an indicator of future success interrogation evaluation etc.

Additional objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference to the detailed description taken in conjunction with the provided figures.

For purposes of description herein a Document is one or more digital files that contain textual content. The digital file s of the Document can contain other types of information such as images video audio charts or graphs spreadsheet data etc. Examples of Documents include plain text files word processing files text based HTML file s and text based XML file s . A Document can be part of a large and structured set of texts referred to herein as a Corpus. A Document can be logically partitioned into one or more portions which are referred to herein as Document Segments.

The textual content contained in a Document can be attributed to an author for written text such as a book article paper web page blog court opinion presentations and earnings reports and other written text sources. Alternatively the textual content contained in a Document can be attributed to a speaker for spoken words transcribed into text such as in a hearing transcript deposition transcript trial transcript legislative transcript event or show transcript and other sources where spoken words are transcribed into text. Such authors and speakers are referred to collectively herein as Actors. Such Actors can be carrying out particular Roles that are relevant to the situations that encompass the textual content of the document. An example of common Roles are Judge Attorney JuryForeman for Actors in a court proceeding transcript. Deponent Attorney and CourtReporter are common Roles for Actors in a deposition transcript. Customer and Agent are common Roles for Actors in a customer service interaction transcript. Hiring Manager and Job Candidate are common roles for Actors in a job interview. Investigator and Detainee are common roles for Actors in a law enforcement interrogation transcript.

Turning now to there is shown the architecture of a web based information extraction system in accordance with the present invention. The present invention employs an ontology that represents rhetorical relations associated with Document Segments. The ontology includes relation variables that correspond to a predetermined set of rhetorical relations associated with Document Segments. In the preferred embodiment the rhetorical relations of the ontology are derived from Rhetorical Structure Theory RST and or Speech Act Theory as described below in more detail. The relation variables are linked to Document Segments as part of a document repository maintained by an Application Server . Users of the system access the Application Server over a network such as the Internet to interact with the Application Server to generate and submit query requests that specify one or more rhetorical relations of interest as well as other parameters. The Application Server maps each query request to a set of query filters e.g. database retrieval commands that are matched to the relation variables stored in the document repository to identify a set of document segments that match the query filters. Information regarding the matched document segments for a given query request such as a list of links to the matched document segments is visually presented to the user that specified the given query request.

The Users utilize a web browser executing on a computing device to connect to the Application Server over the network e.g. Internet . Preferably the browser based interaction between the computing devices and the Application Server occur over TCP IP sessions established therebetween over which are communicated HTML based and possibly XML based documents and commands as well as other messages commands and data. The Application Server includes user authentication logic that enables login and authentication of the User. Such login and authentication can utilize password based authentication operating system based authentication e.g. NTLM or Kerberos services based authentication e.g. Microsoft Passport authentication certificate based authentication or any other authentication scheme. Once a user session has been authorized the Application Server invokes the Query Interface Logic .

Query Interface Logic interacts with the user to generate and submit query requests that specify one or more rhetorical relations of interest as well as other parameters. In the preferred embodiment the rhetorical relations are derived from Rhetorical Structure Theory RST and or Speech Act Theory as described below in more detail. Such interaction is carried out by serving web page s to the User web browser and receiving data supplied by the User web browser to the Application Server . Preferably the Application Server is coupled to the network by a firewall router that enables authorized communication between the user devices and the Application Server while blocking unauthorized communication requests to the Application Server . The Query Interface Logic preferably includes a commercially available HTTP server such as the Apache Web Server Microsoft Internet Information Server and Sun ONE Web Server for serving the web page s to the User web browser in accordance with HTTP requests issued by the User web browser. The HTTP server preferably utilizes style sheets to build the HTML documents and XML documents for presentment to the User web browser as is well known.

The document repository of the Application Server stores relation variables. A relation variable is a data structure that identifies a particular rhetorical relation and links the particular rhetorical relation to one or more Document Segments. Database Access Logic of the Application Server processes the query requests generated by the Query Interface Logic and maps each query request to a set of query filters e.g. database retrieval commands that are matched to the relation variables stored in the document repository to identify a set of Document Segments that match the query filters.

Result Presentation Logic of the Application Server collects information regarding the matched Document Segments for a given query request such as a list of links to the matched Document Segments and visually presents such information to the user that specified the given query request.

The Query Interface Logic Database Access Logic and Result Presentation Logic preferably cooperate with Presentation Services of the Application Server . Presentation Services are facilities for interfacing to the document repository and for delivering content to user browsers. Preferably the Presentation Services provide CGI support as well as server side scripting functionality such as Active Server Pages JavaServer pages Perl scripting PL SQL scripting etc.

In the preferred embodiment the Application Server is realized by a commercially available software framework such as the WebLogic Platform commercially available from BEA Systems of San Jose Calif. the Websphere Application Server commercially available from IBM Windows Server Systems commercially available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the SUN ONE Application Server commercially available from Sun Microsystems of Santa Clara Calif.

Relation variables and other ancillary information stored in the document repository are derived by a relation tagging process that embeds tags within a given Document. The embedded tags specify Document Segments and rhetorical relations that are associated therewith as well as ancillary information pertaining to the given Document. The tagging process can be carried out with the input of a trained operator in block or by an automated process in block . A Document including the tags embedded therein by blocks or is processed by a Document Tag Analyzer that transforms the embedded tags of the Document to corresponding relation variables as well as ancillary data pertaining to the Document. Loader mechanism loads the relation variables and ancillary data pertaining to the Document into the document repository for access by logic . The loader mechanism can operate in an online manner as the data is generated by the analyzer on a Document by Document basis on a batch basis over multiple Documents such as multiple Documents belonging to a Corpus or in some other suitable manner.

FIGS. B B B and B illustrate exemplary user interfaces generated by the Result Presentation Logic as part of the operations of . In FIG. B the document name is presented at the top of the screen the matching document segments are presented as a list with the corresponding relations and speakers to the left of each document segment of the list block A . The document segments of the list are links to a corresponding screen that presents the document segment within the document itself An example is shown in FIG. B . The list of document segments can be sorted by actor if requested by the user.

FIGS. B and B illustrate views that allow a user to identify one or more related document segments and to select and traverse to a particular document segment of interest. More specifically a mouse over box that overlies a particular segment enables the user to view one or more document segments related to the particular segment for example one nucleus document segment and one satellite document segment related to that segment . The mouse over box provides a link that enables the user to traverse to the linked document segment. The user can click on the link to take the user to an html version of the document context with that particular segment highlighted as illustrated in FIG. B.

In the view of FIG. B the mouse over box labeled overlies document segment which is connected by a concession relation to a previous document segment presented thereabove as indicated by connection arrow icon . Document segment is also connected to a subsequent document segment presented thereunder as indicated by connection arrow icon . The mouse over box provides a link upon mouse over that enables the user to traverse to an html version of the document context with the document segment highlighted. The names of relations associated with the connected document segments and are also presented adjacent the connecting relation name as shown. In the example shown the segment is associated with a background relation while segment is not associated with another relation i.e. it is a head relation as described below .

In the view of FIG. B the mouse over box labeled overlies document segment which is connected by a concession relation to a previous document segment presented thereabove as indicated by connection arrow icon . Document segment is also connected by the concession relation to a subsequent document segment presented thereunder as indicated by connection arrow icon . The mouse over box provides a link upon mouse over that enables the user to traverse to an html version of the document context with the document segment highlighted.

Note that the connection of document segments by relations can be viewed as a hierarchical tree structure with nodes each corresponding to a particular document segment. In this manner the views of FIGS. B and B display the document segments related to a particular node of the hierarchical tree structure. It is contemplated that the view can be expanded to present the related segments for adjacent nodes segments of the hierarchical tree structure and provide for linking to the document context for such nodes in a manner similar to that described above with respect to FIGS. B and B. For example the view of FIG. B can be expanded to present above document segment a document segment that precedes the document and is related thereto as well as below document segment a document segment that follows document segment and is related thereto. It is also contemplated that as part of formulating the query as described above with respect to the user can control the relevant depth the number of connected nodes of the hierarchical tree that is presented to the user as part of such result view generated by the Result Presentation Logic .

Note that in the case where there are no preceding document segments related to a given segment in other words the segment is the head of a tree the presentation logic can be adapted to present to the user the immediately preceding segment above the head document segment and no connection arrow icon is presented that depicts the connection of the preceding document segment to the head document segment. Similarly in the case where there are no subsequent document segments related to a given segment in other words the segment is the foot of a tree the presentation logic can be adapted to present to the user the immediately subsequent segment below the foot document segment and no connection arrow icon is presented that depicts the connection of the foot document segment to the subsequent segment.

Rhetorical Structure Theory RST which was developed by Mann Thompson in 1988 defines relations that can be used in a top down recursive manner to relate parts and sub parts of text. These parts and sub parts of text are commonly referred to as spans. In ordinary usage the spans of a text document have a kind of unity that arbitrary collections of sentences or other language generally lack. RST offers an explanation of the coherence of texts. But what is coherence One formulation of coherence is that it is the absence of non sequiturs and gaps. That is for every part of a coherent text there is some rhetorical function some plausible reason for its presence evident to readers and furthermore there is no sense that some parts are somehow missing. RST focuses on the first part an evident rhetorical role for every part. RST is intended to describe texts rather than the processes of creating or reading and understanding them. It posits a range of possibilities of structure various sorts of rhetorical building blocks which can be observed to occur in texts. These rhetorical building blocks deal with nuclearity and relations which are often called coherence relations in the linguistic literature.

A central aspect of RST is the investigation of nuclearity in discourse i.e. the asymmetries between the spans that make up a more complex structure by identifying nuclei and corresponding satellites in the text. A Nucleus is a span that more important to the purpose of the writer or speaker less easy to substitute and more necessary for the understanding of the discourse. A Satellite on the other hand is a span that can be replaced without any significant change to the function of the text and has a meaning that depends on other elements. According to such nuclearity two types of relations are used mononuclear relations that relate a nucleus to a satellite and multinuclear relations that relate several nuclei but not satellites.

The most frequent structural pattern is that two spans of text which are typically adjacent to one another but exceptions can be found are related such that one of them has a specific role relative to the other. A paradigm case is a claim followed by evidence for the claim. RST posits an Evidence relation between the two spans. It also says that the claim is more essential to the text than the particular evidence and this essentiality is represented by calling the claim span a nucleus and the evidence span a satellite. The order of spans is not constrained but there are more likely and less likely orders for all of the relations.

The following describes mononuclear and multinuclear relations derived from RST theory that can be identified as part of RST tags in accordance with the present invention.

In an AGREEMENT mononuclear relation the statement made in the satellite affirms that of the nucleus either with a single affirmation or an affirmation and restatement of the nucleus.

In an ANALOGY multinuclear relation two or more nuclei are compared with each other along some dimension. This is common in legal documents where a previous decision or argument is raised in parallel to a topic currently under discussion.

In an ANTITHESIS mononuclear relation the situation presented in the nucleus comes in contrast with the situation presented in the satellite.

In a BACKGROUND mononuclear relation the satellite establishes the context or the grounds with respect to which the nucleus is to be interpreted. Understanding the satellite helps the recipient understand the nucleus. The satellite IS NOT the cause reason motivation of the situation presented in the nucleus.

In a CAUSE mononuclear relation the situation presented in the nucleus is the cause of the situation presented in the satellite. The cause which is the nucleus is the most important part. The satellite represents the result of the action.

In a CIRCUMSTANCE mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite provides the context in which the situation presented in the nucleus should be interpreted. The satellite IS NOT the cause reason motivation of the situation presented in the nucleus.

In a COMMENT mononuclear relation the satellite constitutes a subjective remark on the nucleus. It is not an evaluation or an interpretation.

In a COMPARISON multinuclear relation multiple nuclei are compared along some dimension which can be abstract. The relations can convey that some abstract entities that pertain to the comparison relation are similar different greater than less than etc.

In a CONCESSION mononuclear relation the situation indicated in the nucleus is contrary to expectation in the light of the information presented in the satellite. In other words a CONCESSION relation is always characterized by a violated expectation.

In a CONCLUSION mononuclear relation the satellite presents a final statement that wraps up the situation presented in the nucleus. A CONCLUSION satellite is a reasoned judgment inference necessary consequence or final decision with respect to the situation presented in the nucleus. An if then statement tends to be a good indicator of a conclusion.

In a CONDITION mononuclear relation the truth of the proposition associated with the nucleus is a consequence of the fulfillment of the condition in the satellite. The satellite presents a situation that is not realized.

In a CONDITION CONTRARY mononuclear relation truth of the proposition associated with the nucleus is a consequence of the non fulfillment of the condition in the satellite and the condition expresses a statement that is contrary to fact. The satellite presents a situation that cannot be realized.

In a CONSEQUENCE N mononuclear relation the situation presented in the nucleus is a consequence or result of the situation presented in the satellite. The reader writer intentions are irrelevant to determining whether such a relation holds. A CONSEQUENCE N relation is similar to a RESULT relation by suggests a more indirect linkage between the nucleus and satellite relative to the RESULT relation.

In a CONSEQUENCE S mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite is a consequence or result of the situation presented in the nucleus. The reader writer intentions are irrelevant to determining whether such a relation holds. A CONSEQUENCE S relation is similar to a CAUSE relation by suggests a more indirect linkage between the nucleus and satellite relative to the CAUSE relation.

In a DISAGREEMENT mononuclear relation the statement made in the satellite represents the speaker s disagreement with the statement made in the nucleus either with a single negative or a negation and restatement of the nucleus.

In an ELABORATION mononuclear relation the satellite provides specific information to help define a very general concept introduced in the nucleus.

In an ELABORATION ADDITIONAL mononuclear relation the satellite gives additional information or detail about the situation presented in the nucleus. This relation is extremely common at all levels of the discourse structure.

In an ELABORATION PROCESS STEP mononuclear relation the nucleus introduces an activity or event a process . The satellite then enumerates the steps involved in carrying out the process usually in chronological order. The steps of the satellite are most often represented by a multinuclear SEQUENCE relationship.

In an EVIDENCE mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite provides evidence or justification for the situation presented in the nucleus. Usually EVIDENCE relations pertain to actions and situations that are independent of the will of an animate agent. Evidence is data on which judgment of a conclusion may be based and is presented by the writer or an agent in the article to convince the reader of a point. An evidence satellite increases the chance of the reader accepting the information presented in the nucleus.

In an EVIDENCE CITATION mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite provides evidence or justification for the situation presented in the nucleus. The evidence presented is derived from a particular text which is cited as the embodiment of the evidence.

In an EXAMPLE mononuclear relation the satellite provides an example with respect to the information presented in the nucleus.

In an EXPLANATION ARGUMENTATIVE mononuclear relation the satellite provides a factual explanation for the situation presented in the nucleus. It is not the intention of the writer to convince the reader of a point which is the role of the EVIDENCE relation. It also differs from the REASON relation which justifies or explains the actions of an animate agent and involves the will or intentions of the agent.

In a HYPOTHETICAL mononuclear relation the satellite presents a situation that is not factual but that one supposes or conjectures to be true. The nucleus presents the consequences that would arise should the situation come true. A HYPOTHETICAL relation presents a more abstract scenario than a CONDITION relation.

In a HYPOTHETICAL ANSWER mononuclear relation the satellite presents a situation that is not factual but that one supposes or conjectures to be an answer to a proposed hypothetical question. The nucleus presents the consequences that would arise should the answer to the question posed as the situation come true. A HYPOTHETICAL ANSWER relation is common to legal rhetoric but less common in other genres.

In an INTERPRETATION mononuclear relation the satellite gives a different perspective on the situation presented in the nucleus. It is subjective presenting the personal opinion of the writer or of a third party. An interpretation can be 1 an explanation of what is not immediately plain or explicit 2 an explanation of actions events or statements by pointing out or suggesting inner relationships motives or by relating particulars to general principles or 3 an understanding or appreciation of a situation in light of individual belief judgment interest or circumstance.

In a MANNER mononuclear relation the satellite explains the way in which the nucleus is done. It can also express some sort of similarity comparison. The satellite answers the question in what manner or in what way A MANNER relation is less goal oriented than a MEANS relation and often is more of a description of the style of an action.

In a MEANS mononuclear relation the satellite specifies a method mechanism instrument channel or conduit for accomplishing some goal specified in the nucleus. It should tell you how something was or is to be accomplished. In other words the satellite answers a by which means or how question that can be assigned to the nucleus. It is often indicated by the preposition by.

In a PURPOSE mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite specifies a purpose of the nucleus which is putative in nature i.e. it is yet to be achieved. Most often it can be paraphrased as nucleus in order to satellite. 

In a QUESTION ANSWER relation one span poses a question not necessarily realized as an interrogative sentence and the other span answers the question. The relation may be mononuclear or multinuclear depending on the context. When the question is perceived as more important than the answer the QUESTION ANSWER relation is mononuclear whereby the question is assigned the role of nucleus and the answer is the satellite. In other examples the QUESTION ANSWER relation can be multinuclear whereby the question and answer spans are assigned as nuclei of the relation.

A REASON relation involves a span that specifies an action carried out by an animate agent and a span that specifies a reason for the animate agent performing the action. The REASON relation can be both mononuclear and multinuclear. Where the action span is more important than the reason span the nucleus is the action span and the Satellite is the reason span. can be paraphrased as Satellite is the reason for Nucleus. Where both the action span and reason space are equally important the action span and reason span are assigned as nuclei of the multinuclear REASON relation.

In a RESTATEMENT mononuclear relation the satellite and nucleus are of roughly comparable size. The satellite reiterates the information presented in the nucleus typically with slightly different wording. It does not add to or interpret the information.

In a RESULT mononuclear relation the situation presented in the satellite is the cause of the situation presented in the nucleus. The result which is the nucleus is the most important part. Without presenting the satellite the reader may not know what caused the result in the nucleus. The intention of the writer is to emphasize the result. The situation presented in the nucleus of a result relation is factual i.e. it is achieved in contrast to a PURPOSE relation where the nucleus is putative in nature. When the cause is the nucleus the CAUSE relation is used.

In a RHETORICAL QUESTION relation the satellite poses a question vis a vis the nucleus the intention of the author is usually not to answer it but rather to raise an issue for the reader to consider or to raise an issue for which the answer should be obvious.

In a STATEMENT INTRODUCTION mononuclear relation a nucleus specifies a point for further elaboration. The nucleus is the beginning of a satellite that supports the point raised in the nucleus. The satellite can be a multinuclear relation that links a group of spans that support the nucleus.

In a SUMMARY S mononuclear relation the satellite summarizes the information presented in the nucleus. The emphasis is on the situation presented in the nucleus. The size of the summary the satellite is shorter than the size of the nucleus.

In a SUMMARY N mononuclear relation the nucleus summarizes the information presented in the satellite. The emphasis is on the summary. The size of the summary the nucleus is shorter than the size of the satellite.

The TOPIC DRIFT relation links large spans where the topic drifts smoothly between the spans. This relation may be mononuclear or multinuclear. It is typically multinuclear with the related spans assigned as nuclei of the multinuclear TOPIC DRIFT relation. It can also be mononuclear when the relative size or importance of one of the spans is less significant than that of the other. In this case the larger span or span with more importance is the nucleus and the smaller span or the span with less importance is the satellite of the multinuclear TOPIC DRIFT relation.

Other common mononuclear and multinuclear relations derived from RST theory can be used such as the ENABLEMENT mononuclear relation the EVALUATION mononuclear relation the JOINT multinuclear relation the LIST multinuclear relation the SEQUENCE multinuclear relation and other rhetorical relations known in the computational linguistics field.

In the preferred embodiment the ontology of the present invention also represents rhetorical relations between Document Segments derived from Speech Act Theory. Speech Act Theory analyzes utterances beyond even the situational semantics of their lexical content. In Speech Act Theory the understanding of utterances involves sensitivity to the beliefs goals and intentions of the speaker. Conventional notions of truth conditions do not apply easily to speech acts although they have a place in dialogue analysis where arguments are being analyzed for propositional content e.g. analysis of deposition texts courtroom closing arguments etc. . According to some early Speech Act Theory research Austin 1962 so called truth independent utterances should be classified as performatives . These types of utterances can have illocutionary force or the ability for the utterance to have the status of a question information gathering device promise demand or other role which elicits a reaction in the listener. In 1969 Searle described and classified these performatives in the following way 

In recent computational models of Speech Acts and dialogue Groz and Sidner 1986 Carberry 1990 inter alia a discourse is thought to consist of three subcomponents 

The following list describes relations derived from Speech Act theory which are referred to as Speech Act relations herein for simplicity of description and can be identified as part of Speech Act tags in accordance with the present invention.

The Speech Act relations of the present invention are meant to expose a corresponding discourse strategy. In Deposition and Interview text the overall scenario consists of two conflicting discourse strategies one for the interviewer and one for the interviewee . These could also be considered offensive vs. defensive strategies. The interviewer must elicit answers to questions which support a particular pre defined conclusion. Typical conclusions are facts such as This interviewee is guilty of a crime or This interviewee is unqualified for this job . The interviewee in defense must supply answers which prevent the conclusions from being reached.

The strategic designs fall into several categories. First the interviewer must establish BASIC FACTS. These facts serve to support a very broad scope theory of the knowledge of events in a case or perhaps skills in a job. The interviewer must establish this basic admission of knowledge on the part of the interviewee or the interview will either TERMINATE or result in a CONTRADICTION which amounts to the same thing in most cases . An example of a Speech Act relation for this purpose would be . There are only two possible responses to this speech act and only one response after which the dialogue may continue. That is which will effectively end the dialogue or which will allow the interviewer to ask another question narrower in scope.

Following the establishment of basic knowledge of a set of facts the interviewer will attempt to narrow the scope of the question in order to establish the admission of specific knowledge of an event or skill set on the part of the interviewee. The interviewer might alternatively want to clarify a set of facts or confirm that a previous quotation can be attributed to the interviewee. The Speech Act relation is associated with text strings where the interviewer is seeking more specific knowledge of an event this relation namespace would be changed for job interview text and only serves as an example here . And the relation is used to confirm the attribution of a statement. The responses here are again denial which in this case will not end the dialogue confirmation or a request for clarification or rephrase.

Aside from requesting the statement of facts and description of events interviewers will often ask for opinions or speculations on the part of the interviewee. For this there is the relation. Responses are either or where the interviewee simply refuses to speculate.

Other Speech Act relations include rephrases of any of the requests for information and confirmation of any stated facts. The Speech Act relation is used in the case of a formal objection on the part of interviewee s counsel. This is sometimes used in the same places where a relation might be found.

The Speech Act relations and the Speech Act tags based thereon are designed particularly for the information extraction system of the present invention in order to enable users to apply value judgments to various interrogation scenarios. It should be noted that this system does not supply any such value judgments but rather supplies data such that users can see the basic structure of interrogation strategies as they unfold. Moreover the Speech Act relations as described herein can easily expose techniques such as broadening or narrowing of question scope hedging and rephrasing. The number of confirmations vs. denials can also be reviewed. In this manner the Speech Act relations as part of the information extraction system of the present invention also affords the user a window into rhetorical subtlety that might otherwise be unavailable even by lengthy manual review.

Unlike rhetorical structure theory based RST tags the speech act tags discussed here are meant to identify the strategy of a dialogue not the content of any given statement in that dialogue. As such for certain types of source data a data extraction tool employing Speech Act tags as described herein may be used as a complementary analysis tool as compared to such a tool employing RST tags.

In the preferred embodiment relation variables and other ancillary information stored in the document repository are derived by a relation tagging process that embeds tags within a given Document. The embedded tags are structured annotations that follow a predefined syntax for specifying Document Segments and rhetorical relations that are associated therewith as well as ancillary information pertaining to the given Document. In the preferred embodiment the embedded tags are XML type tags that conform to a predefined schema realized by a DTD an XML schema or other suitable schema document. The tagging process can be carried out with the input of a trained operator in block or by an automated process in block . In the preferred embodiment the tags generated by the tagging process of block and or block include the exemplary tags depicted in .

The tag of referred to herein as a segment tag includes a segment ID assigned to a given Document Segment a start of segment indicator and an end of segment indicator that bounds the text of the given Document Segment and optionally other attributes for the given Document Segment. An example segment tag is illustrated below.

The tag of referred to herein as a span tag includes a segment ID assigned to a given Document Segment a start of segment indicator and an end of segment indicator that bounds the text of the given Document Segment a span ID assigned to a given span a type that is unique to the span tags for identifying the span tags from other type tags an optional Actor name for the given span an optional Actor role for the given span and optional other attributes for the given span. A span tag is used to define a grouping of a given Document Segment defined by the segment ID start of segment and end of segment and other Document Segments or spans. The span ID of the span tag which is also referred to as a group ID is shared by other span tags to encode the Document Segments that belong to a given span. An example span tag is illustrated below.

The tag of referred to herein as a Mononuclear RST tag includes a Nucleus segment ID assigned to a given Nucleus Document Segment or a nucleus span ID assigned to a given nucleus span or a Nucleus MNN assigned to a given nucleus MNN a Satellite segment ID assigned to a given Document Segment or a Satellite span ID assigned to a given Satellite span or a Satellite MNN ID assigned to a given satellite MNN and a mononuclear RST relation type that uniquely corresponds to one of the mononuclear RST relations supported by the system. A Mononuclear RST tag is used to define a particular mononuclear RST relation dictated by the mononuclear RST relation type between the given Nucleus Document Segment or span or MNN and the given Satellite Document Segment or span or MNN . An example Mononuclear RST tag is illustrated below.

The tag of referred to herein as a Multinuclear RST tag includes a segment ID assigned to a given Document Segment or a Span ID assigned to a given span a Multinuclear Node MNN ID assigned to a given MNN node and a Multinuclear RST relation type that uniquely corresponds to one of the multinuclear RST relations supported by the system. A Multinuclear RST tag is used to join the given Document Segment or span to the given MNN node with a multinuclear relation dictated by the Multinuclear RST relation type. An example Multinuclear RST tag is illustrated below.

The tag of referred to herein as a Speech Act tag includes a segment ID assigned to a given Document Segment or a span ID assigned to a given span and a Speech Act relation type that uniquely corresponds to one of the Speech Act relations supported by the system. A Speech Act tag is used to associate a particular Speech Act relation dictated by the Speech Act relation type to the given Document Segment or span . An example Speech Act tag is illustrated below.

The tagging process can also embed document attribute tags in a document. Such tags can encode attribute data associated with a given document. The attribute data can represent a date year month day . It can also vary for different types of Documents. For legal Documents such attribute data can include a case number docket number court type etc.

In the preferred embodiment the tagging process of block is carried out by an expert operator that is familiar with RST relation types and or Speech Act relation types used by the system. The expert operator loads a Document into a computer generated software application that facilitates identifying Document Segments and spans within the Document as well as associating mononuclear RST relations multinuclear RST relations and Speech Act relations with the Document Segments and spans as described above. An example of such a software application is the RSSTool freely available for download at wagsoft.com.

In the preferred embodiment the automatic tagging process block employs the operations illustrated in the flow chart of . Such operations begin in block with segmentation of a given Document whereby the Document is parsed to identify Document Segments within the Document and assigns a unique Segments ID to each identified Document Segment. Segment tags are then embedded in the Document. Each segment tag annotates the start and end position of a Document Segment along with the segment ID assigned thereto and possibly other attributes .

In block the Document is processed to attribute an actor to one or more Document Segments identified in block or Document Segment groups or Spans as described herein and embed actor information and possibly role information that describes the role the actor is playing in the associated discourse text in the Segments tags or Span tags associated with such Document Segments or Spans .

In block the operations carry out RST classification that automatically assigns RST relation types to one or more Document Segments identified in block or Document Segment groups or Spans as described herein and that automatically connects such Document Segments as part of mononuclear or multinuclear RST relation types as described herein. The operations of block include sub blocks A to E as described below.

In block A a RST feature vector generator processes the Document with embedded tags as output by blocks and to generate and store a feature vector for each Document Segment. The feature vector for a given Document Segment includes a number of features that characterize the given Document Segment the features can be word density values word group density values character density values presence or absence of a class of words or other value s that characterize an attribute characteristic or quality of the given Document Segment.

In block B an RST relation mapper processes the feature vector values for each given Document Segment stored by the feature vector generator of block A to generate probabilities correlating the feature vector values of the given Document Segment to one or more RST relation types. The RST relation mapper employs a model that maps feature vector values to probabilities correlating the feature vector values to a set of RST relation types. The feature vector values for a given Document Segment are input to the model. The model outputs the probabilities correlating the input feature vector values to one or more RST relation types for the given Document Segment.

In block C the probabilities output by the RST relation mapper of block B for a given Document Segment are processed by decision logic that automatically assigns an RST relation type to the given Document Segment based upon such probabilities.

In block D an RST connection mapper processes each Document Segment assigned an RST relation type in block C by analyzing the feature vector for Document Segment along with the respective feature vector of other Document Segments assigned with the same RST relation type. The feature vector pairs are processed to generate a probability correlating connection of the two respective Document Segments as part of a mononuclear or multinuclear type RST relation. The processing of the feature vector pairs employs a model that maps the feature vector pairs to probabilities correlating connection of the two Document Segments with feature vectors similar to the corresponding feature vector pairs of the model.

In block E the probabilities output by the RST connection mapper of block D are processed by decision logic that automatically relates Document Segments as part of a mononuclear or multinuclear type RST relation.

In block the operations process the RST relation types assigned to the Document Segments in block C and the related Document Segments connected to one another in block E to embed corresponding mononuclear RST tags or multinuclear RST tags in the Document .

In block the operations carry out Speech Act classification that automatically assigns Speech Act relation types to one or more Document Segments identified in block or Document Segment groups or Spans as described herein . The operations of block include sub blocks A to C as described below.

In block A a Speech Act feature vector generator processes the Document with embedded tags as output by blocks and to generate and store a feature vector for each Document Segment. The feature vector for a given Document Segment includes a number of features that characterize the given Document Segment. The features can be word density values word group density values character density values presence or absence of a class of words or other value s that characterize an attribute characteristic or quality of the given Document Segment. The features of the feature vector for classifying Speech Act relations are preferably different than the feature vectors for classifying RST relations although there may be overlap therebetween. In the event that there is overlap the overlapping calculations can be avoided in block A and employ the corresponding results generated in block A.

In block B a Speech Act relation mapper processes the feature vector values for each given Document Segment stored by the feature vector generator of block A to generate probabilities correlating the feature vector values of the given Document Segment to one or more Speech Act relation types. The Speech Act relation mapper employs a model that maps feature vector values to probabilities correlating the feature vector values to a set of Speech Act relation types. The feature vector values for a given Document Segment are input to the model. The model outputs the probabilities correlating the input feature vector values to one or more Speech Act relation types for the given Document Segment.

In block C the probabilities output by the Speech Act relation mapper of block B for a given Document Segment are processed by decision logic that automatically assigns a Speech Act elation type to the given Document Segment based upon such probabilities.

In block the operations process the Speech Act relation types assigned to the Document Segments in block C to embed corresponding Speech Act tags in the Document .

The Document including the tags embedded therein by blocks or is processed by a Document Tag Analyzer that transforms the embedded tags of the Document to corresponding relation variables as well as ancillary data pertaining to the Document. Exemplary operations carried out by the Document Tag Analyzer are illustrated in . In block document attribute tags embedded in the document if any are processed to generate and store document attribute data corresponding to the Document. In block the segment and span tags embedded in the Document are process to generate and store a list of segment IDs for each segment and span in the Document. In block the multinuclear RST tags embedded in the document are processed to generated and store a list of segment IDs for each MNN node in the Document.

Block processes the mononuclear RST tags embedded in the Document and includes blocks and . In block each given mononuclear tag is processed to generate and store a list of nucleus Document Segments and a list of satellite Document Segments for the given mononuclear RST tag. The lists generated in blocks and are used as needed to derive the list of nucleus Document Segments and the list of satellite Document Segments. In block a Rhetorical type Document Specific variable is generated corresponding to the mononuclear RST relation encoded by the given mononuclear RST tag as well as the lists of nucleus Document Segments and satellite Document Segments generated and stored in block .

Block processes the multinuclear RST tags embedded in the Document. In block each given multinuclear tag is processed to generate a Rhetorical type Document Specific variable corresponding to the multinuclear RST relation encoded by the given multinuclear RST tag as well as the list of nucleus Document Segments for the given multinuclear RST tag generated and stored in block .

Block processes the Speech Act tags embedded in the Document and includes blocks and . In block each given Speech Act tag is processed to generate and store a list of Document Segments associated therewith. The list generated in blocks and are used as needed to derive this list of associated Document Segments. In block a Speech Act type Document Specific variable is generated corresponding to the Speech Act relation encoded by the given Speech Act tag as well as the lists of Document Segments generated and stored in block .

In an alternate embodiment the system methodology and processes described herein can be run on a digital computer as illustrated in . A data bus allows communication between a central processing unit random access volatile memory a data storage device and a network interface card . Input from the user is permitted through an alphanumeric input device and cursor control system and data is made visible to the user via a display . Communication between the computer and other networked devices is made possible via a communications device .

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any configuration of the system may be used for various purposes according to the particular implementation. The control logic or software implementing the present invention can be stored in the main memory mass storage device or other storage medium locally or remotely accessible to processor .

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the system method and process described herein can be implemented as software stored in main memory or read only memory and executed by processor . This control logic or software may also be resident on an article of manufacture comprising a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein and being readable by the mass storage device and for causing the processor to operate in accordance with the methods and teachings herein.

The present invention may also be embodied in a handheld or portable device containing a subset of the computer hardware components described above. For example the handheld device may be configured to contain only the bus the processor and memory and or . The present invention may also be embodied in a special purpose appliance including a subset of the computer hardware components described above. For example the appliance may include a processor a data storage device a bus and memory and only rudimentary communications mechanisms such as a small touch screen that permits the user to communication in a basic manner with the device. In general the more special purpose the device is the fewer of the elements need be present for the device to function. In some devices communications with the user may be through a touch based screen or similar mechanism.

It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any configuration of the system may be used for various purposes according to the particular implementation. The control logic or software implementing the present invention can be stored on any machine readable medium locally or remotely accessible to processor . A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital sounds etc. .

The methodologies systems and apparatus of the present invention provide for information extraction whereby pieces of information are extracted from individual texts according to user supplied search parameters. Such information extraction functionality is significantly different than document retrieval functionality whereby a list of documents are retrieved according to user supplied search parameters. In the ideal case the users of the information extraction functionality of the present invention have several important qualities 

With such distinctions in mind the methodologies systems and apparatus of the present invention the product design can be tailored for a specific market where there are expert users in search of specific information either separate pieces of text or pieces of text taken as a whole to show trends in the textual data. In this manner the present invention can save these users time while providing accurate and useful information at a glance.

For example it is contemplated that the present invention can enable a user to seek trends in the textual data. Such textual data can include many different types of non fictional dialog as illustrated in . These different types of non fictional dialogues have interlocutors with different roles and hence the variables in each type of dialogue will change accordingly as will the goal of the entire exchange. For example in a customer service exchange there are typically two participants with the roles CUSTOMER and AGENT. The GOAL of the exchange is for the set of customer TASKS to be exhausted. For example a typical task is REQUEST PRODUCT SERVICE CALL. Several sub exchanges must take place to accomplish this. The agent must acquire information about the product name and product problem before scheduling a service call. To schedule the service call the agent must acquire customer contact information and assign a call time. This sort of information has been extracted from actual exchanges for the purposes of building automated agents in customer service centers. The quality of such systems however will only be as good as the categorization of the sub exchanges in typical dialogues. If just one step is missed the exchange will never reach its goal. Information extraction in both customer service and purchasing exchanges has traditionally been for creating better automated agents and not designed for end users. One type of end user who might benefit from such information would be service center training staff but systems specifically designed for these end users are not in wide use.

Dialogues in the area of Commerce and Finance range from recorded job interviews to recorded board meetings to oral presentations and reports. All these situations are very different from the call center exchanges although there are a few similarities. In the job interview for example there are typically two participants an INTERVIEWER and an INTERVIEWEE. The goal of the exchange is for the set of interviewer tasks to be exhausted much like the goal of the agent in the call center exchange. However the dynamic between the participants is fundamentally different. There is not necessarily the implied cooperation in a job interview exchange the way there is in the call center because individual participant goals are often in conflict. This means that every sub exchange has a value for each participant and each participant will struggle to maximize that value. For example the interviewer wants to glean enough information about the interviewee to either eliminate him as a candidate or identify him as the best candidate. The interviewee wants to glean enough information about the interviewer to know which answers best qualify him to be identified as best candidate . Conversation in interviews often involves HEDGING to turn a perceived BAD fact into a perceived GOOD fact POSITIVE REINFORCEMENT and ELABORATION to turn a perceived NEUTRAL fact into a GOOD fact and AGREEMENT to show SOLIDARITY with interviewer. Although there are no information extraction systems currently created to extract interview dialogue using variables like these such systems could certainly be of value to companies assessing their workforce quality and attempting to screen better for better results.

Multi party exchanges such as those which occur at board meetings represent still other types of dialogue features. In these cases each participant has a COMPANY ROLE and each company role is part of a COMPANY HIERARCHY. These roles determine not just when the participant will speak but often what the participant will speak about or for how long. Meetings also have a pre determined flow of dialogue known informally as an agenda . The agenda represents both the order of topics for discussion and the goal of the dialogue invariably to solve a problem or make a decision as a group. Dialogue elements in meetings serve only two purposes to CONTRIBUTE INFORMATION to facilitate the decision or to CONTRIBUTE OPINIONS to facilitate the decision. Because of the hierarchical nature of roles opinions and information will not be contributed in equal amounts by all parties. No information systems currently exist to extract meeting data which might relate Roles Contribution Types and points on a meeting Agenda but such a system could clearly be useful. Company management could tell which parties contributed what sorts of information and which contributions helped the most in achieving the goal of making a decision.

There have been described and illustrated herein several embodiments of a data extraction methodology and system that relates rhetorical information to document segments. While particular embodiments of the invention have been described it is not intended that the invention be limited thereto as it is intended that the invention be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise. Thus while particular automated operations have been disclosed for relating rhetorical classifications to document segments it will be appreciated that other automated operations can be used as well. In addition while particular types of computer systems have been disclosed for realizing the system it will be understood that other computer systems can be used as well. Also while preferred database structures and document variables have been disclosed it will be understood that database structures and document variables can be similarly used. Moreover while particular RST relational types and Speech Act relation types have been disclosed it will be appreciated that other RST relational types other Speech Act relational types and or other rhetorical relations could be used as well. The methodology system and apparatus of the present invention provide for extraction of text from a set of text documents in an efficient and accurate manner suitable for a range of expert domains which include for example legal research and analysis scientific research and analysis and journalist research and analysis financial research and analysis business research and analysis FDA Administrative Panel transcript research job interviewing as an indicator of future success interrogation evaluation etc. It will therefore be appreciated by those skilled in the art that yet other modifications could be made to the provided invention without deviating from its spirit and scope as claimed.

