---

title: Fastener assembly for connecting rocket engine nozzles
abstract: A sliding connection between components of dissimilar materials includes a first mating surface formed on a first component and a second mating surface formed on a second component and configured to mate with the first mating surface. The first component is connected to the second component at the first and the second mating surfaces by a fastener including a shank, a sleeve received by the shank, and a resilient member received by the shank and contained by the sleeve. The resilient member is configured to press the first mating surface and the second mating surface against one another and to permit the first mating surface to slide against the second mating surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08281603&OS=08281603&RS=08281603
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08281603
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080811
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. NNM06AB13C awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

One example of a rocket engine is the RL10 rocket engine manufactured by Pratt Whitney Rocketdyne a wholly owned subsidiary of the assignee. Another example of a rocket engine is the J 2X rocket engine also manufactured by Pratt Whitney Rocketdyne. The three major components of such engines are a turbopump a combustion chamber and an exhaust nozzle. The exhaust nozzle commonly includes a metallic regeneratively cooled nozzle connected to a non metallic nozzle extension.

During operation of the rocket engine the turbopump is used to supply a fuel and an oxidant such as liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen respectively to the combustion chamber. The liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen are expanded in the combustion chamber and burned to produce hot pressurized rocket gases. The hot pressurized gases are flowed at high velocities to the exhaust nozzle. The exhaust nozzle allows further expansion of the gases to increase the velocity of the gases before the gases exit the engine thereby increasing the thrust of the rocket.

The regeneratively cooled nozzle may be fabricated from thin walled tubes shaped to form the required nozzle contour. Liquid hydrogen fuel is flowed through these tubes to provide convective cooling to the tubes and regenerative heating to the hydrogen fuel. The convective cooling ensures that the temperature of the tubes is consistent with the temperature limits required for structural integrity of the nozzle.

The non metallic nozzle extension is commonly constructed from materials having low coefficients of thermal expansion which allows the nozzle extension to operate in the extreme temperatures of rocket engine exhaust gas without being cooled. A common challenge in rocket engine design is connecting the metallic nozzle to the non metallic nozzle extension. In spite of cooling the metallic nozzle a significant mismatch in thermal expansion may exist between the metallic nozzle and the non metallic nozzle extension. The thermal mismatch between nozzle and nozzle extension may act to place stresses on joints between the components as the metallic nozzle grows radially at operating temperatures while the nozzle extension remains substantially the same size. For example the expanded metallic nozzle may place bending stresses on bolts connecting the nozzle to the non metallic nozzle extension.

A sliding connection between components of dissimilar materials includes a first mating surface formed on a first component and a second mating surface formed on a second component and configured to mate with the first mating surface. The first component is connected to the second component at the first and the second mating surfaces by a fastener including a shank a sleeve received by the shank and a resilient member received by the shank and contained by the sleeve. The resilient member is configured to press the first mating surface and the second mating surface against one another and to permit the first mating surface to slide against the second mating surface.

Metallic regeneratively cooled nozzle may be formed of a plurality of thin walled tubes that are tapered and shaped to form the required nozzle contour. Liquid fuel such as liquid hydrogen flows through the tubes to provide convective cooling to the tubes and thereby to metallic nozzle and regenerative heating to the hydrogen fuel. The convective cooling of metallic nozzle ensures that the material limits of nozzle are not exceeded during operation of engine .

Coolant manifold supplies liquid hydrogen to the cooling tubes extending through metallic nozzle and manifold exhausts regeneratively heated hydrogen from the cooling tubes. Fuel manifold supplies the regeneratively heated liquid hydrogen fuel from the cooling tubes in metallic nozzle to combustion chamber . Oxidant manifold supplies a liquid oxidant such as liquid oxygen to combustion chamber . The fuel and oxidant are flowed into combustion chamber through an injector not shown . An igniter not shown is also disposed in combustion chamber . Some rocket engines such as engine may include exhaust manifolds . Exhaust manifold extracts a portion of the hot high pressure combustion gases and supplies them through exhaust manifold to the interior of carbon carbon nozzle extension . The diverted combustion gases are used to improve flow characteristics inside nozzle extension by creating a supersonic boundary layer flow along the inner walls of nozzle extension .

During operation of rocket engine including exhaust nozzle fuel and oxidant are flowed into combustion chamber . The fuel and oxidant e.g. hydrogen and oxygen are burned to produce water vapor and hot high pressure gases. The total pressure of the gases may for example approach three thousand 3000 psi approximately 20 500 kilopascals at the throat and remains constant at any axial location of the nozzle. The static pressure is a constant at any axial location as long as the flow through the nozzle is relatively uniform. The high pressure and temperature gases flow from the combustion chamber into exhaust nozzle through the convergent region of nozzle to throat . The gases are expanded from throat to exit where the gases develop the propulsive thrust for the vehicle to which rocket engine is attached.

In spite of cooling metallic nozzle a significant mismatch in thermal expansion may exist between metallic nozzle and carbon carbon nozzle extension . As such the metallic nozzle may expand more than the carbon carbon nozzle extension when subjected to heat. In turn any fasteners or other connections affixing the metallic nozzle and the carbon carbon extension may exhibit substantial sheer stresses. Although the embodiment of discloses a metallic nozzle and carbon carbon nozzle extension alternative embodiments also include other material combinations for the components being mated. For example the nozzle may be formed of one ceramic and the nozzle extension may be formed of a different ceramic having a lower coefficient of thermal expansion. Alternatively the nozzle and nozzle extension may be formed of different metals such as steel and aluminum respectively. Embodiments disclosed herein therefore provide a sliding connection between components of dissimilar materials that permits thermal expansion of one component without stressing the connection with the other component.

Sliding connection includes conical boss conical flange and fastener . Conical boss is integral with and extends from exhaust manifold connected to metallic nozzle . Conical flange is integral with and extends from carbon carbon nozzle extension . Conical boss includes aftward conical surface lip and threaded hole . Conical flange includes forward conical surface aftward conical surface notch and through hole . Conical boss receives conical flange such that aftward surface of boss mates with forward surface of flange and threaded hole and through hole are substantially centrally aligned. Notch receives lip such that there is a small radial gap between notch and lip

Fastener includes head shank sleeve and resilient member . Resilient member includes flat washer and conical spring washers . Shank includes threaded portion unthreaded portion and slotted shoulder . Slotted shoulder of shank receives resilient member and unthreaded portion receives sleeve . Sleeve contains resilient member on fastener . Fastener passes through through hole in flange and threaded portion of shank engages threaded hole in boss . The bottom of sleeve of fastener abuts aftward surface of boss . Interposed between head of fastener and aftward surface of flange is flat washer and conical spring washers of resilient member . Shank of fastener has sufficient length to leave a positive gap in which resilient member may reside. Flat washer has two tabs configured to be received by slotted shoulder of shank and to permit resilient member to move with respect to shank . Head of fastener compresses conical spring washers against flat washer which in turn presses against aftward surface of flange . Through hole in flange has a diameter that is larger than a diameter of shoulder bolt .

Although shows only one fastener securing the sliding connection between nozzle and nozzle extension additional embodiments may include a number of fasteners distributed circumferentially about the main axis of the engine to engage the boss and the flange at a number of locations. An example of a spring washer is a Belleville washer manufactured by Barnes Group Inc. of Bristol Conn.

At assembly of engine metallic nozzle and carbon carbon nozzle extension may be joined at sliding connection by fastener in the arrangement shown in . For example an operator may engage boss with fastener until sleeve abuts aftward surface of boss . The operator may now apply a standard torque to fastener . The torque applied by the operator generates a known preload on aftward surface of flange and between forward surface of flange and aftward surface of boss as head of fastener compresses conical spring washers against flat washer pressing against aftward surface of flange . However because sleeve abuts aftward surface of boss and slotted shoulder of shank the torque load generated by fastener is applied directly onto aftward surface of boss and not onto on aftward surface of flange . This arrangement of sleeve thereby ensures only the preload generated by resilient member is applied to sliding connection . Alternative embodiments may include in addition to or lieu of conical spring washers curved spring washers finger spring washers wave spring washers compression coil springs clover springs and non metallic elastomeric washers.

As conical spring washers compress flat washer may move with respect to shank as two tabs of flat washer slide along slotted shoulder of shank . A preload may be applied to connection by fastener to structurally join the interface between nozzle and nozzle extension while simultaneously allowing aftward surface of boss to slide against forward surface of flange and flat washer to slide against aftward surface of flange . The preload on sliding connection may be adjusted by varying the stiffness and number of spring washers the length of shank and the torque applied to fastener . The stiffness and number of spring washers are selected to provide the necessary clamping force required throughout engine operation while remaining in a linear spring resiliency range. The load provided by spring washers is therefore consistent for all operating conditions regardless of thermal growth in fastener . Flat washer facilitates sliding and acts to smooth the load generated by spring washer against aftward surface of conical flange . In the assembled state shown in conical spring washers should not generally speaking be compressed flat.

Fastener facilitates operation of sliding connection by generating a preload on sliding connection that is sufficient to structurally join the interface between nozzle and nozzle extension and simultaneously allow conical boss to slide against concial flange . Fastener simplifies assembly and maintenance of rocket engine by providing a preconfigured assembly that secures sliding connection between metallic nozzle and carbon carbon nozzle extension without necessitating additional steps such as assembling flat washer and spring washers onto shank .

Ordinary skilled artisans will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

