---

title: Quasi-particle interferometry for logical gates
abstract: A quantum computer can only function stably if it can execute gates with extreme accuracy. “Topological protection” is a road to such accuracies. Quasi-particle interferometry is a tool for constructing topologically protected gates. Assuming the corrections of the Moore-Read Model for ν=5/2's FQHE (Nucl. Phys. B 360, 362 (1991)) we show how to manipulate the collective state of two e/4-charge anti-dots in order to switch said collective state from one carrying trivial SU(2) charge, |1>, to one carrying a fermionic SU(2) charge |ε>. This is a NOT gate on the {|1>, |ε>} qubit and is effected by braiding of an electrically charged quasi particle σ which carries an additional SU(2)-charge. Read-out is accomplished by σ-particle interferometry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07598514&OS=07598514&RS=07598514
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07598514
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080528
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 544 492 filed on Oct. 6 2006 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 233 653 filed on Sep. 23 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 250 624. The disclosure of each of the above referenced patent applications is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was supported in part by funds from the U.S. Government National Science Foundation Grant No. DMR 0411800 and Army Research Office Grant No. W911NF 04 1 236 . The U.S. Government therefore may have certain rights in this invention.

Since the discovery of the fractional quantum Hall effect FQHE in 1982 topological phases of electrons have been a subject of great interest. Many abelian topological phases have been discovered in the context of the quantum Hall regime. More recently high temperature superconductivity and other complex materials have provided the impetus for further theoretical studies of and experimental searches for abelian topological phases. The types of microscopic models admitting such phases are now better understood. Much less is known about non abelian topological phases. They are reputed to be obscure and complicated and there has been little experimental motivation to consider non abelian topological phases. However non abelian topological states would be an attractive milieu for quantum computation.

It has become increasingly clear that if a new generation of computers could be built to exploit quantum mechanical superpositions enormous technological implications would follow. In particular solid state physics chemistry and medicine would have a powerful new tool and cryptography also would be revolutionized.

The standard approach to quantum computation is predicated on the quantum bit qubit model in which one anticipates computing on a local degree of freedom such as a nuclear spin. In a qubit computer each bit of information is typically encoded in the state of a single particle such as an electron or photon. This makes the information vulnerable. If a disturbance in the environment changes the state of the particle the information is lost forever. This is known as decoherence the loss of the quantum character of the state i.e. the tendency of the system to become classical . All schemes for controlling decoherence must reach a very demanding and possibly unrealizable accuracy threshold to function.

Topology has been suggested to stabilize quantum information. A topological quantum computer would encode information not in the conventional zeros and ones but in the configurations of different braids which are similar to knots but consist of several different threads intertwined around each other. The computer would physically weave braids in space time and then nature would take over carrying out complex calculations very quickly. By encoding information in braids instead of single particles a topological quantum computer does not require the strenuous isolation of the qubit model and represents a new approach to the problem of decoherence.

In 1997 there were independent proposals by Kitaev and Freedman that quantum computing might be accomplished if the physical Hilbert space V of a sufficiently rich TQFT topological quantum field theory could be manufactured and manipulated. Hilbert space describes the degrees of freedom in a system. The mathematical construct V would need to be realized as a new and remarkable state for matter and then manipulated at will.

The computational power of a quantum mechanical Hilbert space is potentially far greater than that of any classical device. However it is difficult to harness it because much of the quantum information contained in a system is encoded in phase relations which one might expect to be easily destroyed by its interactions with the outside world decoherence or error . Therefore error correction is particularly important for quantum computation. Fortunately it is possible to represent information redundantly so that errors can be diagnosed and corrected.

An interesting analogy with topology suggests itself local geometry is a redundant way of encoding topology. Slightly denting or stretching a surface such as a torus does not change its genus and small punctures can be easily repaired to keep the topology unchanged. Only large changes in the local geometry change the topology of the surface. Remarkably there are states of matter for which this is more than just an analogy. A system with many microscopic degrees of freedom can have ground states whose degeneracy is determined by the topology of the system. The excitations of such a system have exotic braiding statistics which is a topological effective interaction between them. Such a system is said to be in a topological phase. The unusual characteristics of quasiparticles in such states can lead to remarkable physical properties such as a fractional quantized Hall conductance. Such states also have intrinsic fault tolerance. Since the ground states are sensitive only to the topology of the system interactions with the environment which are presumably local cannot cause transitions between ground states unless the environment supplies enough energy to create excitations which can migrate across the system and affect its topology. When the temperature is low compared to the energy gap of the system such events will be exponentially rare.

A different problem now arises if the quantum information is so well protected from the outside world then how can we presumably part of the outside world manipulate it to perform a computation The answer is that we must manipulate the topology of the system. In this regard an important distinction must be made between different types of topological phases. In the case of those states which are Abelian we can only alter the phase of the state by braiding quasiparticles. In the non Abelian case however there will be a set of g 1 degenerate states a 1 2 . . . g of particles at x x . . . x. Exchanging particles and might do more than just change the phase of the wave function. It might rotate it into a different one in the space spanned by the S M 1 

On the other hand exchanging particles and leads to M . If Mand Mdo not commute for at least some pairs of particles then the particles obey non Abelian braiding statistics. In the case of a large class of states the repeated application of raiding transformations Mallows one to approximate any desired unitary transformation to arbitrary accuracy and in this sense they are universal quantum computers. Unfortunately no non Abelian topological states have been unambiguously identified so far. Some proposals have been put forward for how such states might arise in highly frustrated magnets where such states might be stabilized by very large energy gaps on the order of magnetic exchange couplings but the best prospects in the short run are in quantum Hall systems where Abelian topological phases are already known to exist.

An experimental device as described herein can address both of the aforementioned determinations. Features of such a device are inspired by anti dot experiments measuring the charge of quasiparticles in Abelian fractional quantum Hall states such as 1 3 and proposals for measuring their statistics. Our measurement procedure relies upon quantum interference as in the electronic Mach Zehnder interferometer in which Aharonov Bohm oscillations were observed in a two dimensional electron gas.

In order to establish which topological phase the 5 2 plateau is in one must directly measure quasiparticle braiding statistics. Remarkably this has never been done even in the case of the usual 1 3 quantum Hall plateau although in this case unlike in the 5 2 case computational solutions of small systems leave little doubt about which topological phase the plateau is in . Part of the problem is that it is difficult to disentangle the phase associated with braiding from the phase which charged particles accumulate in a magnetic field. Ironically it may actually be easier to measure the effect of non Abelian braiding statistics because it is not just a phase and is therefore qualitatively different from the effect of the magnetic field.

A logical gate according to the invention enables the manipulation of a collective quantum state of one or more anti dots disposed in a fractional quantum Hall effect FQHE fluid. A FQHE fluid is an exotic form of matter that arises when electrons at the flat interface of two semiconductors are subjected to a powerful magnetic field and cooled to temperatures close to absolute zero. The electrons on the flat surface form a disorganized liquid sea of electrons and if some extra electrons are added quasi particles called anyons emerge. Quasi particles are excitations of electrons and unlike electrons or protons anyons can have a charge that is a fraction of a whole number.

Anti dots are holes in the FQHE fluid created by charge i.e. islands of higher potential where the FQHE fluid does not exist. Anti dots are not quasi particles per se but can have a quasi particle charge. The collective quantum state of the one or more anti dots may be a state carrying trivial SU 2 charge 1 or a state carrying a fermionic SU 2 charge .

The collective state of the quasi particles may be read out by drawing an output current out of the quantum Hall fluid. The value of the output current will indicate whether the collective state is 1 or . The state can be the state of a single anti dot or the collective state of two or more anti dots.

To operate the logical gate i.e. to flip between states 1 and a quasi particle may be caused to tunnel by adjusting the electrical potential on conductive gates that are provided for adjusting electrical potentials confining a fractional quantum Hall fluid. Tunneling of the quasi particle may deform the contours of the FQHE fluid. It should be understood that quasi particles tunnel more easily than electrons because quasi particles have less charge being in essence electron fractions.

As described in detail below quasi particle interferometry by electrically charged particles may be used to build logical gates and read out for quantum computers as realized in a system for implementing a NOT gate in 5 2 FQHE systems.

The Pfaffian state may be viewed as a quantum Hall state of p wave paired fermions. The quasiparticles in this phase have charge e 4 not e 2 as one might naively assume from the Landau level filling fraction

The claimed quasiparticle braiding properties can be seen from the form of the four quasihole wavefunctions given in C. Nayak and F. Wilczek Nucl. Phys. B 479 529 1996 . The ground state wavefunction takes the form

As shown in it is also possible to verify the logic associated to braiding operations using a few formal properties of the Jones polynomial at q exp i 4 . Taking one quasiparticle around the qubit pair i.e. linking results in an extra 1 if the qubit is in state 1 a factor d q qalso arises regardless of whether or not the quasiparticle encircles the qubit . The boxed 1 is a projector on the pair of quasiparticles that puts them in the state 1 . By evaluating the Jones polynomial at q exp i 4 for these links desired matrix elements for braiding operations manipulating the qubit can be obtained. The Jones polynomial operator at q exp i 4 vanishes for the links in by calculation and for the links in by parity. The Jones polynomial at q exp i 4 is non vanishing only for the links in which applies to all processes with topologically equivalent link diagrams e.g. interchanging inputs outputs so for example corresponds to four different processes. In the links depicted in the qubit is flipped by the elementary braid operation.

Electrically conductive gates enable tunneling between the two edges at M N and P Q thereby allowing a measurement of the qubit formed by the correlation between anti dots and . Electrically conductive gates also allow tunneling at A B that flips the qubit. An electrical potential may be applied to enable tunneling of quasi particles between A and B. It may be useful to have a third anti dot disposed between A and B in order to precisely control the charge which tunnels between A and B. Because there is only a probability that a tunneling event will occur the anti dot between A and B may be used to indicate whether a tunneling event has actually occurred. One can determine whether a tunneling event has occurred by using coulomb blockade for example or some other experimental method to watch an e 4 charge first jump on and then jump off the anti dot disposed between gates A and B. It should be understood that the gates may be front gates i.e. gates disposed on top of the crystal or back gates gates disposed on the bottom of the crystal . If back gates are used the potential would be the opposite of that used with front gates.

There are three basic procedures which we would like to execute 1 initialize the qubit and measure its initial state 2 flip the qubit and 3 measure it again. In order to initialize the qubit we first put charge e 2 on one of the anti dots say 1. Since the fermionic zero mode is now localized on this anti dot the environment will measure it and it will either be occupied or unoccupied not a superposition of the two . We can determine which state it is in by applying voltage to the front gates at M and N and at P and Q so that tunneling can occur there with amplitudes tand t. The longitudinal conductivity is determined by the probability for current entering the bottom edge at X in to exit along the top edge at Y. This is given to lowest order in tand t by the interference between two processes one in which a quasiparticle tunnels from M to N and another in which the quasiparticle instead continues along the bottom edge to P tunnels to Q and then moves along the top edge to N. We subsume into tthe phase associated with the extra distance traveled in the second process. The relative phase of these processes depends on the state of the qubit. If a neutral fermion is not present which we will denote by 0 then t i t . If it is present however which we denote by 1 then t i t . We take the visibility of Aharonov Bohm oscillations in a device with similar limitations e.g. the possibility of the tunneling quasiparticles becoming dephased by their interaction with localized two level systems as an indication that our proposed read out procedure will work.

Without loss of generality let us suppose that the initial state of the qubit is 0. Now let us apply voltage to anti dots and so that charge e 4 is transferred from 1 to 2. There is now one charge e 4 quasihole on each anti dot. The state of the qubit is unaffected by this process. In order to flip this qubit we now apply voltage to the front gates at A and B so that one charge e 4 quasiparticle tunnels between the edges. In order to ensure that only a single quasiparticle tunnels it is useful to tune the voltage of the anti dot at C and the backgate at A so that a single quasiparticle tunnels from the edge to the anti dot at C. If the anti dot is small its charging energy will be too high to allow more than one quasiparticle to tunnel at once. We can then lower the voltage of the backgate at A so that no further tunneling can occur there and apply voltage to the backgate at B so that the quasiparticle can tunnel from C to B. By this two step process we can tunnel a single quasiparticle from A to B. If the 5 2 plateau is in the phase of the Pfaffian state this will transform 0 to 1. This is our logical NOT operation. The gate which creates the anti dot at C must be turned off at the beginning and end of the bit flip process so that there are no quasiparticles there either before or after which could become entangled with our qubit.

We can now measure our qubit again by tuning the front gates so that tunneling again occurs between M and N and between P and Q with amplitudes tand t. If as expected the qubit is now in the state 1 we will find t i t . On the other hand if the 5 2 state were Abelian would not be affected by the motion of a quasiparticle from A to B.

In order to execute these steps it is important that we know that we have one modulo 4 charge e 4 quasihole on each anti dot. This can be ensured by measuring the tunneling conductance Gfrom one edge to the other through each anti dot. As we sweep the magnetic field there will be a series of peaks in Gcorresponding to the passage through the Fermi level of quasihole states of the anti dot. The spacing B between states is determined by the condition that an additional state passes through the Fermi level when one additional half flux quantum 2 is enclosed in the dot. Thus the number of quasiholes is given simply by B B . Alternatively with a back gate we could directly measure capacitatively the charge on each anti dot. If the back gate voltage is V relative to the zero quasihole case when the gate defining the anti dot is turned off then the charge on the anti dot is q VA d where A 2 B is the area of the dot o the dielectric constant and d the distance between the back gate and the 2DEG.

Estimate of Error Rate. Bit flip and phase flip errors respectively occur when an uncontrolled charge e 4 quasiparticle performs one of the two basic processes above encircling one of the anti dots or passing from one edge to the other between them or encircling both of them. The rate for these processes is related to the longitudinal resistivity which vanishes within experimental accuracy because it is limited by the density and mobility of excited quasiparticles. Even without considering the suppression factor associated with the latter which depends on the ratio of the diffusion or hopping length a to the system size L we already have a strong upper bound on the error rate following from the thermally activated form of the former in k 1 units 

Here we have used the best current measured value for the quasiparticle gap 500 mk of the 5 2 state and the lowest achieved measurement temperature T 5 mK. For arbitrary braid based computation in a more elaborate device it is sufficient if we further have e L where is the density of states. The effect of residual pinned quasiparticles can be diagnosed and accounted for in software. These error rates are substantially lower than the estimated error rate for any other physical implementations of quantum computation in any proposed architectures. Compared to other scalable solid state architectures such as localized electron spin qubits in Si or GaAs nanostructures where the estimated error rate is around 10even in the best possible circumstances the errors associated with 5 2 quantum Hall anyons is essentially negligible. This miniscule error rate arises from the intrinsic robustness of the topological phase which is fundamentally immune to all local environmental perturbations.

The ideal error rate for the 5 2 state may actually be substantially lower than even this very low currently achievable value of 10. There is strong theoretical evidence that the ideal excitation gap 2K for the 5 2 quantum Hall state is much larger than the currently achieved gap value of 500 mK. Using an ideal gap of 2K we get an astronomically low error rate of 10. This expected higher value of 2K is consistent with the experimental development of the activation gap measurement of the 5 2 state. The early measurements on fairly modest quality samples i.e. relatively highly disordered gave 100 mK whereas recent measurements in extremely high quality i.e. low disorder samples give 300 500 mK. This implies that the 5 2 excitation gap is susceptible to strong suppression by disorder as has recently been theoretically argued. Since improvement in sample quality has already led to a factor of 5 enhancement in from 100 mK to 500 mK it is not unreasonable to expect further improvements.

There are in principle other sources of error but we expect them to be of minor significance. For example if two quasiparticles come close to each other then their mutual interaction leads to an error e.g. through the exchange of a virtual particle . Such a virtual exchange is however a quantum tunneling process which should be exponentially suppressed. Therefore keeping the quasiparticles reasonably far from each other should essentially eliminate this error.

We note that although we have discussed only the 5 2 Pfaffian quantized Hall state throughout this paper our considerations and arguments apply equally well to the experimentally often observed 7 2 quantized Hall state which being the hole analog of the 5 2 state by virtue of the particle hole symmetry should have equivalent topological and non Abelian properties. We believe the 5 2 state to be a better experimental candidate for topological quantum computation because the measured excitation gap in the 5 2 state tends to be much higher than that in the 7 2 state. We should also mention that recently the 12 5 fractional quantum Hall state has been observed experimentally in the highest mobility sample at the lowest possible temperatures. This state thought to be a non Abelian state related to parafermions is particularly exciting from the perspective of topological quantum computation because its braid group representation is dense in the unitary group making this state an ideal candidate for topological quantum computation. The measured gap value in the 12 5 state is currently rather small 70 mK . We expect that this is also strongly affected by disorder and that the eventual ideal gap at 12 5 will be much larger.

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer or tester and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers e.g. client workstations servers or other devices . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. An embodiment of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . RAM may contain other data and or program modules.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client devices can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. An embodiment of the present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

Though the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments depicted in the various figures it should be understood that other similar embodiments may be used and that modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiments for practicing the invention without deviating therefrom. The invention therefore should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the following claims.

