---

title: Systems and methods for communications channel authentication
abstract: A user may access an institution system via more than one communications channel, either by the same device (e.g., a mobile device accessing the institution system via a voice channel and a data channel) or by different devices (e.g., a personal computer via a web channel and a phone via a voice channel). If a user is not currently authenticated to a communications channel and attempts to access the institution system via a communications channel, the user may be authenticated using strong authentication. If the user is currently authenticated to the institution system via a communications channel and would like to engage a second communications channel to access the institution system, the user may authenticate to the second communications channel using both communications channels and weak authentication, such as single factor authentication or a challenge question.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258286&OS=09258286&RS=09258286
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09258286
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080730
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 182 290 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 182 299 each filed on Jul. 30 2008 and each entitled Systems And Methods For Communications Channel Authentication. 

A communications channel refers to the medium used to convey information from a sender to a receiver. Communications channels include voice and data channels. A receiver may have to authenticate to a sender to access the communications channel. An authentication procedure e.g. involving a user name password a pass phrase a personal identification number PIN etc. may establish the identity of the receiver with some degree of confidence and the sender may grant access privileges to that identity.

If a receiver is authenticated to the sender by a first communications channel and would like to engage a second communications channel to access the sender the receiver has to separately authenticate to the sender via the second communications channel. This is burdensome and time consuming to both the sender and the receiver.

A user may access an institution system via more than one communications channel either by the same device e.g. a mobile device accessing the institution system via a voice channel and a data channel or by different devices e.g. a personal computer PC via a web channel and a phone via a voice channel .

In an implementation if a user is not currently authenticated to a communications channel and attempts to access the institution system via a communications channel the user may be authenticated using strong authentication. If the user is currently authenticated to the institution system via a communications channel and would like to engage a second communications channel to access the institution system the user may authenticate to the second communications channel using both communications channels and weak authentication such as single factor authentication or a challenge question.

In an implementation a challenge question may be presented to the user via one communications channel and the user may provide the response via another communications channel. The user may have previously authenticated via one of the communications channels and that session may still be active.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The user may be seeking access to the institution system to obtain information about an institution associated with the institution system an account of the user maintained by the institution system products or services or to speak with an advisor for example. The institution may be any type of entity or business. For example the institution may be a financial services institution a credit card association or member of a credit card association a retail bank an investment bank an investment company etc. The institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

Each communications channel may be any type of communications channel such as voice data web mobile phone landline phone etc. The user devices and communications channels described herein are examples only and any number and any types of user devices and communications channels may be implemented. The user phone may be any type of telecommunications device used to transmit and receive sound such as a corded telephone a cordless phone a mobile phone etc. The user mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device such as a handheld computing device or a personal digital assistant PDA . An example user computing device is described with respect to . Additionally any number of users with associated user devices may be in communication with the institution system .

Each of the user computing device the user phone and the user mobile device may be connected with the institution system over one or more communications channels of an associated network. It is contemplated that each network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS a public switched telephone network PSTN a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user computing device the user phone and the user mobile device may be connected to the institution system over the same network or different networks.

The institution system may comprise an advisor who may have an associated advisor computing device and advisor phone . The advisor may communicate with the user over a communications channel using the advisor computing device or the advisor phone . An example advisor computing device is described with respect to and the advisor phone may be any type of telecommunications device used to transmit and receive sound. Although only one advisor is shown in it is contemplated that any number of advisors and associated advisor computing devices and advisor phones may be in communication with or otherwise associated with the institution system and may be used for communication with the user .

As described further herein if the user has already authenticated with the authentication engine via a first communications channel e.g. using strong authentication and is attempting to authenticate with the authentication engine via a second communications channel the authentication engine may recognize an active authenticated session on the first communications channel and present an authentication challenge e.g. a challenge question to the user over either the first communications channel or the second communications channel. The authentication challenge may be answered by the user through the other communications channel that did not receive the authentication challenge. For example if the authentication challenge is provided to the user over the first communications channel the user may answer the challenge over the second communications channel and vice versa. Because the user has already authenticated on the first communications channel a simplified or reduced i.e. weak authentication challenge may be presented to the user by the authentication engine on one of the two communications channels which may be answered on the other of the two communications channels.

Strong authentication may be defined as a layered authentication approach relying on two or more authentication factors to establish the identity of a user. An authentication factor is a piece of information and process used to authenticate or verify a user s identity. Two factor authentication is a system wherein two different factors are used to authenticate. Using two factors as opposed to one factor delivers a higher level of authentication assurance. Using more than one factor may be called strong authentication and using just one factor for example a password or an answer to a challenge question such as a randomized challenge question may be considered to be weak authentication.

The authentication engine may analyze process and store the data from the user and the advisor in one or more data sources via a data source access engine . The data may also be stored in other storage perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage . The authentication engine may use the data to authenticate the user e.g. via strong authentication via weak authentication etc. to permit the user access to content associated with the institution system via a communications channel through which the user is seeking access. Data that may be stored may include personal data about the user such as user names passwords pass phrases personal identification numbers and other data that may be used to identify and authenticate the user .

The institution system may include a user interface module . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content directed to identification and authentication for example as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the authentication engine . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system . The page s of content may be provided to other devices of the user such as the user phone or the user mobile device depending on the implementation of the user device.

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The user interface module may provide the user with access to a phone system of the institution system . The phone system may be any type of system that may provide information to a device of the user such as the user phone or the user mobile device . In an implementation the phone system may use any type of phone menu system and may use interactive voice response IVR which is a phone technology that allows a computer to detect voice and touch tones using a phone call. An IVR system can respond with prerecorded or dynamically generated audio to further direct users on how to proceed. IVR systems can be used to control almost any function where the interface can be broken down into a series of menu choices. For example the user may dial a phone number that is answered by an IVR system. The IVR system may execute an application which is tied to the number dialed. As part of the application prerecorded audio files or dynamically generated text to speech audio may explain the options available to the user . The user may be given the choice to select options using DTMF dual tone multi frequency tones or spoken words. Examples of typical IVR applications include telephone banking and credit card transactions.

In an implementation the phone system may comprise a voice portal which gives access to information maintained by the institution system through spoken commands and voice responses. The voice portal could be an access point for any type of information services or transactions found on the Internet. A voice portal may be automated and or Internet based to provide interactive voice services. Information may also be provided to the user via the advisor .

In an implementation the user may use the user interface module to interact with the authentication engine for example to authenticate to the institution system via one or more communications channels. The user may use the user interface module to request or receive information from the institution system e.g. in conjunction with the data source access engine which may retrieve data from data source s storage and other storage internal and or external to the institution system in an implementation.

Data may also be provided to the authentication engine by the user or the advisor . The data may be received via the user interface module in an implementation. The retrieved and or received data may be associated with the user and may be used to authenticate the user and provide access to information maintained by the institution system via one or more communications channels.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user may interact with the computing device s via the user computing device the user phone or the user mobile device via the appropriate communications channel. The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user and authentication of the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as data source s for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating web page content for display generating phone system content and receiving requests and instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

The user may access the institution system via more than one communications channel either by the same device e.g. the user mobile device accessing the institution system via a voice channel and a data channel or by different devices e.g. a personal computer via a web channel and a landline phone via a voice channel .

If a user is not currently authenticated to a communications channel and attempts to access the institution system via a communications channel the authentication engine may authenticate the user using known strong authentication techniques e.g. involving user name password pass phrase PIN or any other authentication factors .

If the user is currently authenticated to the institution system via a communications channel e.g. a voice channel and would like to engage a second communications channel e.g. a web channel to access the institution system the user may authenticate to the second communications channel using both communications channels and weak authentication such as single factor authentication or a challenge question.

At some point the user may request access to the institution system via a second communications channel associated with any user device. If the session involving the first communications channel is still active i.e. the user device that obtained access to the institution system over the first communications channel at is still authenticated and has access a challenge may be provided over the second communications channel to the user device seeking access over the second communications channel . The challenge may comprise a challenge question or another form of single factor authentication or weak authentication.

The user may respond to the challenge over the first communications channel . If the response is proper to authenticate the user a session may be initiated with access provided to the user device to the institution system over the second communications channel .

Thus authentication on a communications channel may be performed in conjunction with another communications channel the user is already authenticated on. In an implementation the second communications channel authentication challenge may be provided to the user on the second communications channel and the user may provide the response on the first communications channel. Thus the user may provide the response to the challenge question for the second communications channel on the first communications channel.

At some point the user may request access to the institution system via a second communications channel . If the session involving the first communications channel is still active a challenge may be provided over the first communications channel to the user device having access to the institution system over the first communications channel . As with the authentication flow the provided challenge may comprise a challenge question or another form of single factor authentication or weak authentication.

The user may respond to the challenge over the second communications channel with the user device that is seeking access over the second communications channel . If the response is proper to authenticate the user a session may be initiated with access provided to the user device to the institution system over the second communications channel .

Therefore credentials of the first communications channel may be used in the authentication on the second communications channel. In this manner the secured session of the first communications channel may be extended to cover both communications channels. Multiple channel communication provides convenience for users and the usability for the combination of two communications channels is simplified by authentication on the second communications channel via the first communications channel.

At some point at the user may initiate another connection to the institution system via a second communications channel with a second user device that is different than the first user device. For example the user may wish to speak with an advisor of the institution system about a user account a product or service etc. In an implementation the user may initiate this connection by calling the advisor or the institution system or by requesting a call from the advisor e.g. via a request made on the website. In this case the communications channel may be a voice channel.

At it may be determined if the user is still in an active session on the first communications channel e.g. if the user is already authenticated to the system on another channel such as the first communications channel . In an implementation the authentication engine may query the various communications channels to confirm that an authenticated session with the user is already in progress.

If the user is already authenticated to the system on another communications channel then a weak authentication technique may be performed to authenticate the user on the second communications channel. At a challenge or other type of weak authentication may be provided to the user on the first communications channel and the user may respond to the challenge on the second communications channel at or vice versa where the challenge may be provided on the second communications channel and the response may be provided on the first communications channel . For example the authentication engine may display an object characters numbers or other data to the user via the website via the first communications channel and the advisor may ask the user over the voice channel i.e. the second communications channel for the user to describe what they see on the display. As another example the advisor may tell the user to type in a number or authentication code on the website. By doing so the user may be authenticated on the voice channel. The user may therefore be authenticated using a challenge presented on one communications channel and responding via another communications channel.

It may be determined at if the user successfully responds to the challenge. If so then the user may be granted access via the second communications channel at . The user now has access to the institution system by both communications channels. In this manner a secured session may be transferred from a first user device to a second user device. Otherwise the user may not be authenticated for the second communications channel and access may be denied at .

If the user is not already authenticated to the institution system on another communications channel as determined at or such a session is inactive strong authentication may be performed at using known authentication techniques for the user to access the institution system via the second communications channel.

At the user may authenticate on a first communications channel on a device such as the voice channel on a user mobile device. At some point at the user may initiate another connection to the institution system via a second communications channel with the same device such as a data channel on the user mobile device. Although the description refers to the first communications channel as a voice channel and the second communications channel as a data channel each communications channel may be any type of communications channel accessible by the same device such as a user mobile device.

For example suppose a user has authenticated e.g. using strong authentication to a voice channel via their mobile phone and would like an account transaction history. The voice channel may ask the user if they would like to view the results on their mobile phone browser via a data channel as opposed to listening over the voice channel. In an implementation the user may be provided with a text message an instant message or an email with a link to their account transaction history. Using the authentication techniques described herein the user may authenticate e.g. weakly to the data channel and access the account transaction history.

At it may be determined if the user is still in an active session on the voice channel that they initially authenticated to. If so then a weak authentication technique may be performed e.g. by issuing a simple challenge to the user on the data channel at . The user may respond to the challenge on the voice channel at . For example upon selecting the link prior to providing the transaction history to the user the user may be authenticated using weak authentication. Instead of strong authentication over the data channel an challenge question may be presented to the user over the data channel that is answered over the voice channel referring to something on the data channel such as a number or an image e.g. please speak the 6 digit number that is presented on the screen to continue what do you see press 1 for rabbit 2 for car 3 for coffee cup etc . This allows for quicker less complex authentication on the data channel for the user. Alternatively a challenge question may be provided over the voice channel and the user may provide a response over the data channel. In any case both communications channels are involved in the authentication of the user for access to the institution system via the data channel or another communications channel in an implementation 

It may be determined at is the user successfully responded to the challenge. If so then the user may be granted access via the data channel at . The user now has access to the institution system on the same device by both communications channels the voice channel and the data channel . If the user has not successfully responded to the challenge the user may not be authenticated for the data channel and access may be denied at .

As with the method of if the user is not already authenticated to the institution system as determined at or such a session is inactive strong authentication may be performed at using known authentication techniques for the user to access the institution system via the data channel of the same user device.

It is contemplated that the techniques described herein may be used with respect to two separate devices each having at least one communications channel or a single device having multiple communications channels.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

