---

title: Mitigating address book weaknesses that permit the sending of e-mail to wrong addresses
abstract: A computer-implemented method for mitigating address book weaknesses that permit sending of e-mail to wrong addresses includes determining prior to sending an e-mail message whether one of a plurality of recipients of an e-mail message should receive the e-mail message, the determining prior to sending the e-mail message including analyzing history information of a sender of the e-mail message to determine whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with the plurality of recipients and whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with a subject of the e-mail message, the analyzing history information including comparing the plurality of recipients to a database indicative of recipients that received e-mail from the sender, and, responsive to the history information, determining whether the one of the plurality of recipients is one of a new recipient and an ordinary recipient, and presenting the determining to the sender.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07774421&OS=07774421&RS=07774421
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07774421
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080630
---
This application is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 11 250 327 filed Oct. 14 2005 now abandoned.

The present invention relates generally to the field of electronic mail. In particular the present invention relates to electronic mail systems that are designed to mitigate address book weaknesses that permit the sending of e mail to wrong addresses.

Since its introduction to the public in the late 20th century e mail has become a popular and widely used form of communication both at home and in the workplace. It is commonly used in research and engineering circles to share technical information as well as by business people that use it e.g. to negotiate to enter into business transactions etc. Additional professionals such as physicians attorneys and accountants also use it to communicate with their patients or clients.

Misdirecting misrouting or misaddressing sensitive e mail messages such as business negotiations correspondence with patient etc. poses some risks to the sender of such messages whether it is a private entity or an organization. For example leakage of confidential information of an organization due to an e mail message that was misaddressed to an unauthorized recipient may have dreadful consequences to the organization. Exposure of the future strategic plans of the organization to an unauthorized recipient or permanent loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property rights are two examples of possible risks.

As a result a large number of corporate and governmental organizations have implemented e mail use policies for their employees and many of these organizations have also set up some type of employee e mail monitoring procedures or systems. But because of the amount of effort required such procedures typically fall short of a detailed review of all messages sent by employees. Instead an employee s e mail is often only carefully evaluated once there is some indication that his or her communications present a risk or have already created a problem.

Systems have also been proposed that detect individual words or phrases without human intervention. But while these systems may be able to detect crude language usage or other potentially undesirable keyword patterns language that is harassing or insulting or that breaches an organization s confidentiality or creates other business risks can be quite subtle.

Moreover both human and automated pattern monitoring can be completely ineffective when applied to individual messages. This is because any particular message may only be viewed as objectionable or otherwise problematic in view of the context of other communications. And these other communications are often not available to the software or even a human reviewer.

Furthermore many e mail utility applications support automatic completion of e mail addresses that were previously used or of recipients that are listed in the address book coupled to these applications. User experience tests show that as a result of this function e mail messages are sometime misaddressed and sent by mistake to the wrong recipients. Automatic systems or procedures typically do not detect such mistakes. Therefore the use of e mail by individuals or by employees of an organization can still pose a substantial risk.

In addition the pervasive use of address books in e mail for address automatic completion can lead to undesired cases where certain pieces of e mails are sent to a valid recipient address alas the wrong address because of typographical errors and quick finger mistakes.

Another pervasive problem exists in which an address is indeed a valid one and also belongs to person or group with whom the sender has an on going communication be it through e mail or IM etc. However certain pieces of e mail should not be sent to those specific addresses and were not meant to be listed by the sender. Nevertheless through a simple typographical error certain e mail is sent to a recipient that should have not received it.

Yet another case arises when the recipient is an acquaintance however through a history of the sender s actions the other recipients of a particular e mail piece were never on a common mailing list with him and or were not sharing an e mail with a subject matter of the present e mail domain.

When the e mail is a confidential one these sorts of mistakes can have disastrous consequences. Therefore in order to prevent this from occurring regulatory policies are often put in place to specifically control how the user is utilizing e mail functionality. Examples of this require users to enter full addresses for any document recipient of a certain importance or of a certain confidential level. Alternately the system permits access only to address books which are designated such that the address lists in them are permitted to be exposed to the respective type of information. However this approach is very restrictive for the user.

In view of the foregoing and other exemplary problems drawbacks and disadvantages of the conventional methods and structures an exemplary feature of the present invention is to provide a method of mitigating address book weaknesses that permit the sending of e mail to wrong addresses that imposes a low amount of restrictions on the user.

Applicant has realized regardless of whether the recipient was listed in the sender s address book that existing security systems or procedures fail to alert a user or an administrator that an e mail is being sent by mistake to a valid recipient that is not the recipient to which the sender actually intended to send the e mail. Such mistakes may occur for example when the address of the wrong recipient is automatically completed from the user s address book.

Applicant has further realized that most of the e mail communication a typical user has is with a defined group of correspondents e.g. his or her manager peers colleagues team members clients or patients in his or her work environment or friends and family members for private e mail communication. Typical e mail users have a list of their ordinary correspondents i.e. recipients that the user is in touch with in his or her ordinary way of communicating.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for mitigating address book weaknesses that permit sending of e mail to wrong addresses said method including determining prior to sending an e mail message whether one of a plurality of recipients of an e mail message should receive the e mail message the determining prior to sending the e mail message including analyzing history information of a sender of the e mail message to determine whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with the plurality of recipients and whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with a subject of the e mail message the analyzing history information including comparing the plurality of recipients to a database indicative of recipients that received e mail from the sender and responsive to the history information determining whether the one of the plurality of recipients is one of a new recipient and an ordinary recipient and presenting the determining to the sender.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention identities of the plurality of recipients and a time stamp of when the e mail message was sent to the plurality of recipients are stored in the database. According to the history information a recipient having a time stamp older than a dynamically defined threshold time stamp is determined to be the new recipient. A plurality of characteristics of the e mail message received by the plurality of recipients from the sender is stored in the database. According to the history information a recipient of an e mail message having different characteristics than the plurality of characteristics stored in the database is determined to be the new recipient. An other of the plurality of recipients receives the e mail message and determines whether the one of the plurality of recipients is one of the new recipient and the ordinary recipient. The user has an ability to withdraw the e mail message prior to a reading of the e mail message by the first plurality of recipients.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention a plurality of recipients receives the e mail message and is able to determine whether the recipient is one of new and ordinary. The user has the ability to withdraw the e mail message prior to a reading of the e mail message by the recipient.

According to the exemplary embodiment detailed above assuming a typographical error is restricted to one of just a few entities the odd recipient s e mail address can be singled out identified and presented before the user for confirmation. Thus this provides the mitigation of address book weaknesses that permit the sending of e mail to wrong addresses while imposing a low amount of restrictions on the user.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numbers may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous features.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown exemplary embodiments of the structures and method according to the present invention.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of a system for enhancing e mail correspondence according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

System may include a mail system a display and a user input device such as a mouse or keyboard. The local mailing system may include a mail utility a network interface a history database and an enhancement module . The mail utility in this embodiment may include an off the shelf mail application such as Outlook commercially available from Microsoft Corporation of the USA Lotus Notes commercially available from International Business Machines Corporation of the USA Eudora commercially available from Qualcomm Inc. etc.

The network interface may be a communication facility permitting mail utility to communicate mail messages to a network such as a direct or indirect connection to the Internet. The mailing system may be implemented using software running on one or more computers such as a personal computer or a network of personal computers. These computers may run an off the shelf operating system. One of ordinary skill would recognize however that numerous other implementations are also possible. The exact makeup of such implementations will depend on desired user interface and messaging features the nature of the communications network used by the system available technology and a variety of other variables.

History database may be included in one or more data storage areas such as disk or integrated circuit storage areas that are accessible to mail utility for the storage of information related to the recipients of messages sent from the mail utility . The information may include details about the recipients that may be used to determine how frequently the recipient receives e mail messages from the user of mail utility as will be described in detail below.

Enhancement module may be an application extension that interacts with history database and with the mail utility to provide additional mail related features such as alerts as will be described in detail below. This interaction may take place through a formal interface known as an Application Programming Interface API . Other implementations of the mailing system are also possible however such as systems that include a single application combining the functions of the mail utility and enhancement module or systems that employ enhancement modules that interact with messages after they have left the mail utility.

Reference is now made to which is a more detailed block diagram of history database and enhancement module of system described above for enhancing e mail correspondence according to an embodiment of the present invention. Enhancement module may include a control unit that may receive the message sent by the user as input and a display unit that may prompt and alert the user as will be described in detail below. Control unit may send queries to history database based on the recipients of the message to determine whether a recipient is considered as an ordinary recipient or a new one.

History database may store history information about the recipients that received messages from the user of system . For example history database may include records of the recipients that received messages from the user. Alternatively the database may include records of the messages that were sent by the user. In the example shown in the records are structured in a table but it should be noted that the records may be stored in any known form of a data structure e.g. list array linked list hash table graph etc. .

In the example of history database includes records of recipients that received message from the sender. Each record may include for example a record identifier such as the recipient name his or her e mail address employee ID or any other unique ID. In addition each record may include a time stamp e.g. the date the record was last updated in the database. This date may indicate when was the last time the recipient listed in this record received a message from the user. Additional details for each record may include the size of the message sent to the recipients key words associated with the message how frequent this recipient receives e mail message from the user of system etc. It should be noted that each record may also include a link or a pointer to the message that originated the record.

As mentioned above control unit may send the queries to history database . Upon receipt of the query results control unit may prompt alerts to the user of system based on a policy defined by the user or the administrator as will be described in detail below.

Reference is now made to which is a screen view of a compound prompting dialog for the system of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Enhancement module may present dialog to the user once the user indicates that the message can be sent e.g. by clicking a send button and before the mail utility actually sends it. The dialog may include a list of recipients whose status is ordinary or common and a list of recipients with a different status of new or non ordinary . The details presented for each recipient are identifying details such as for example the e mail address of the recipient or any other detail that may be stored in history database to identify the recipient such as unique ID employee number etc. as discussed above.

Near each recipient there is a confirmation button or checkbox and an edit button . Dialog may also include a send and cancel buttons to actually send the message after reviewing the lists of the recipients and making changes if such changes are required. The decision whether a recipient should be listed in list or may be made in various ways as will be described in detail below.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention and as previously discussed history database may store history information about the recipients that received e mail messages from the user of system . The information stored in the database may be analyzed according to a history policy that may be used to determine whether a recipient is an ordinary recipient or a new one. For example a threshold timeframe e.g. of the last 30 days may be defined by the user or by an administrator. Accordingly when the logic unit see in enhancement unit detects that a message is sent to a recipient whose record in the history database has a timestamp older than the threshold or to a recipient not stored in the database the recipient may be listed in new recipient list .

According to a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention history database may store additional information about the recipients other than the last time that a message was sent to them and the user or the administrator of system may define rules to decide whether a recipient should be included in list of the ordinary recipients based on this additional information. This additional information may include a rate of receiving a mail e.g. how often the recipient receives a message from the user. In addition history database may hold information related to the content of the messages sent through mail utility . Simple details related to the content may include the size of the message whether it included attachments and of what type whether there were additional recipients to that message and their details. More complicated details may include for example key words in the message sent the subject of the message etc. These details may be obtained for example by implementing indexing methods such as the methods that are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 135 818 titled A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MANAGING FILES IN A FILE SYSTEM which is commonly assigned with the present patent application.

Accordingly the user or the administrator of system may define rules to decide whether a recipient should be included in list of the ordinary recipients. For example if one e mail message per week is sent to recipient X then when a second e mail message is sent to that recipient in the same week the recipient will be listed in new recipient list . According to another example if recipient Y receives only text messages without attachments at all then when a message with an attachment is sent to him he will be listed in new recipient list as well. According to yet another example if recipient Z receives messages with keywords such as family trips and weekend then when recipient Z receives a message with different keywords such as confidential engagement the recipient should be listed in new recipient list . It should be noted that these are only examples and that the rules may be defined dynamically according to additional information that may be stored in database .

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart illustration of a computer implemented method for mitigating address book weaknesses that permit sending of e mail to wrong addresses in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

The aforementioned method includes determining prior to sending an e mail message whether one of a plurality of recipients of an e mail message should receive the e mail message the determining prior to sending the e mail message including analyzing history information of a sender of the e mail message to determine whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with the plurality of recipients and whether the one of the plurality of recipients is ordinarily connected with a subject of the e mail message the analyzing history information including comparing the plurality of recipients to a database indicative of recipients that received e mail from the sender and responsive to the history information determining whether the one of the plurality of recipients is one of a new recipient and an ordinary recipient and presenting the determining to the sender.

The CPUs are interconnected via a system bus to a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM input output I O adapter for connecting peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives to the bus user interface adapter for connecting a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface device to the bus a communication adapter for connecting an information handling system to a data processing network the Internet an Intranet a personal area network PAN etc. reader scanner and a display adapter for connecting the bus to a display device and or printer .

In addition to the hardware software environment described above a different aspect of the invention includes a computer implemented method for performing the above described method. As an example this method may be implemented in the particular environment discussed above.

Such a method may be implemented for example by operating a computer as embodied by a digital data processing apparatus to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. These instructions may reside in various types of signal bearing media.

This signal bearing media may include for example a RAM contained within the CPU as represented by the fast access storage for example. Alternatively the instructions may be contained in another signal bearing media such as a magnetic data storage diskette directly or indirectly accessible by the CPU .

Whether contained in the diskette the computer CPU or elsewhere the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape etc. paper punch cards. In an illustrative embodiment of the invention the machine readable instructions may comprise software object code compiled from a language such as C etc.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention a database or a histogram is built for each group of addresses. Based on that history the system would be able to identify new addressees which don t seem to belong to a well established association and ask specifically for a user confirmation before the mail delivery.

The association can optionally include the subject matter so that the system can check whether that a given person was ever on a mailing list associated with a certain group of people about a certain subject. If the subject is new to some of the people in the group it can also be used as a signal to alert the sender of a probable mistake in the recipients list.

In the case that an odd user does slip by mistake into the e mail distribution instead of another user other recipients e mail clients may be able to identify that odd user utilizing the very same algorithm of the present invention and determining the amount of regularity the odd user existing on a particular e mail distribution.

There are already e mail systems that permit one to withdraw an e mail prior to the recipient having the opportunity to read that e mail. The coupling of such systems with an automatic alert sent from the recipients clients to the sender regarding the possibility of an e mail sent to an incorrect party can help one minimize if not eliminate the damage that could be done had the e mail been read by the wrong party.

Of course in order to minimize the false alerts and redundant noise in the system such advisory alert messages should be sent in respect to the importance of the e mail piece and not for every case. For example a confidential e mail can be configured as such and ask for the recipients clients help in case a security breach is suspected.

The present invention can also be applied to erroneous connection attempts done either over a telephone or through instant messaging. When a user calls a telephone number for the first time or depending on configuration a telephone number that was not called ever before or not called over a threshold period of time the user could be made aware of that fact. In the case of an instant message an attempt to engage in an instant message session with a new colleague will also raise an alert.

In the description above numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits control logic and the details of computer program instructions for conventional algorithms and processes have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the present invention unnecessarily.

Software programming code that embodies aspects of the present invention is typically maintained in permanent storage such as a computer readable medium. In a client server environment such software programming code may be stored on a client or server. The software programming code may be embodied on any of a variety of known media for use with a data processing system. This includes but is not limited to magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape compact discs CD s digital video discs DVD s and computer instruction signals embodied in a transmission medium with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are modulated. For example the transmission medium may include a communications network such as the Internet. In addition while the invention may be embodied in computer software the functions necessary to implement the invention may alternatively be embodied in part or in whole using hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits or other hardware or some combination of hardware components and software.

Improvements and modifications can be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and sub combinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the prior art which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

