---

title: Multiphase converter apparatus and method
abstract: An ac/ac converter for accepting a pulsating dc input with encoded sinusoidal modulation and providing a multiphase modulated output. The converter comprises a bridge including a plurality of switches having switch legs for modulating the pulsating dc input at a carrier frequency over a plurality of phases. The bridge is coupled at one end to a pulsating dc source and coupled at another end to a modulated signal output. A controller is provided for the plurality of switches for causing, for each of the plurality of phases, under unity power factor, one of the switch legs to modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency while the other switch legs do not modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07768800&OS=07768800&RS=07768800
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07768800
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081212
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 013 226 filed Dec. 12 2007 and 61 037 751 filed Mar. 19 2008 under 35 U.S.C. 119 which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein.

This invention was made with Government assistance under National Science Foundation Award No. 0725887 and NSF CAREER Award No. 0239131. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates generally to the fields of electrical devices and power systems. The invention relates more particularly to the fields of electrical modulation and conversion.

Power conversion is often desired for providing particular power sources for portability of power sources for providing power in bulk for transmission or for other reasons. As one example a major initiative has been taken recently towards the development of a modular solid oxide fuel cell SOFC based inverter power system which mainly feeds bulk power to a local utility load and unlike active filters does not need to support more than 30 of load power factor. However various barriers exist to efficient and effective power conversion.

For example isolation between a power source and a load is highly desirable and often a necessity e.g. for safety reasons . To provide such isolation magnetic transformers may be used. Such transformers though can be quite large e.g. tens of tons bringing difficulties for installation repair etc.

An alternative type of power conversion uses a high frequency transformer which can provide isolation while reducing the size of the transformer by a significant amount. High frequency transformers have become more feasible due to recent technical advances. One example is a high frequency inverter power system which reduces the huge cost associated with the labor weight and footprint of a traditional utility transformer. The potential for high frequency transformers has been improved by nanocrystalline core based transformer technology and high voltage and high frequency Si IGBTs and more recently SiC MOSFETs.

Towards that goal two example feasible high frequency high voltage topologies have received attention in the art. One topology is shown in and is referred to herein as direct power conversion DPC topology. Another topology referred to herein as voltage source inverter VSI topology may be obtained from the DPC topology in by simply placing a link capacitor between output converter and the rectifier. Both the DPC and VSI topologies can support varying load power factor angle up to as a nonlimiting example 60 degrees or more.

Referring to both topologies have a front end high frequency converter and a diode rectifier bridge and satisfy a requirement for isolation of a galvanic transformer for a power source such as but not limited to a fuel cell battery photovoltaic cell etc. In other embodiments the rectifier bridge may be switch based to allow bidirectional power flow.

However the two topologies differ at the output stage. An output stage of the VSI topology is a dc ac inverter that is preceded by a decoupling link capacitor while the last stage of the DPC topology is an ac ac converter which is not preceded by any decoupling link capacitor. Further for the DPC topology the primary side converter is operated with sine wave modulation. For the VSI topology on the other hand the primary side converter operates with square wave modulation and the output dc ac converter is sinusoidally modulated. In VSI the filter capacitor provided after the rectifier feeds the output converter with a dc voltage rather than a pulsating dc.

In spite of advances in power conversion several problems remain. One significant problem is switching loss of the converter. Another problem is the significant stresses e.g. voltage current stresses electromagnetic emissions on high frequency high voltage devices.

According to example embodiments of the present invention an ac ac converter is provided for accepting a pulsating dc input with encoded sinusoidal modulation and providing a multiphase modulated output. In an example embodiment the converter comprises a bridge including a plurality of switches having switch legs for modulating the pulsating dc input at a carrier frequency over a plurality of phases. The bridge is coupled at one end to a pulsating dc source and coupled at another end to a modulated signal output. A controller is provided for the plurality of switches for causing for each of the plurality of phases under unity power factor one of the switch legs to modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency while the other switch legs do not modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency.

According to example embodiments of the present invention a hybrid modulation method and devices using hybrid modulation methods are provided for ac ac conversion. Generally in an example hybrid modulation method only one leg of a multi phase switching scheme carries out forced switching commutating at any given time during a line cycle while the other legs e.g. two legs for a three phase switching scheme are not switching that is they do not change state. This is accomplished in example embodiments by inputting a modulated waveform to the example ac ac converter. The ac ac converter switches are triggered with a plurality of modulating references.

In a more particular example embodiment of the present invention an ac ac converter is provided for accepting a pulsating dc input with encoded sinusoidal modulation pulsating dc with encoded sinusoidal modulation and providing a multiphase modulated output. However it is contemplated that other inputs are possible including ac. Multiphase may include any number of phases greater than one and the invention is not to be limited to a particular number of phases. In an example embodiment the converter comprises a bridge including a plurality of switches having switch legs for modulating the pulsating dc input at a carrier frequency over a plurality of phases. The bridge is coupled at one end to a pulsating dc source and coupled at another end to a modulated signal output. The source can be as nonlimiting examples a standalone source an output input of a front end converter and or various other sources. The invention is not intended to be limited to receiving an input from a particular source.

A controller e.g. hardware software firmware analog digital analog digital etc. is provided for the plurality of switches for causing for each of the plurality of phases under unity power factor one of the switch legs to modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency while the other switch legs do not modulate the pulsating dc input at the carrier frequency. Suitable drivers may be provided for driving the switches based on the controller. Nonlimiting example controllers are disclosed herein.

Hybrid modulation devices and methods have various applications. A nonlimiting example device according to an embodiment of the present invention provides a high frequency and high power direct power conversion DPC fuel cell inverter topology which can be unidirectional or bidirectional. The inventive modulation scheme reduces the overall loss of the output stage of the high frequency link inverter as compared to a voltage source inverter VSI based topology by reducing the switching requirements for the output stage while ensuring a total harmonic distortion that is comparable to the VSI topology whose output stage is forced switched at high frequency. In example devices this is achieved using two general advantages first in the example DPC scheme the output of the front end isolated high frequency dc dc converter is not filtered and hence the modulation information of the sinusoidally modulated high frequency inverter is retained and second for bulk power generation only one of the three legs of the output ac ac stage of the DPC topology is forced switched while the other two legs are switched at significantly lower frequency because the input to the output ac ac converter is a pulsating dc with embedded sinusoidal modulation information.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

The obtained outputs are used to trigger the ac ac converter switches as shown in . show that in a complete line cycle each of the three legs forced commutates for of the line cycle. Also at any instant of time only one leg switches at high frequency while the other two legs do not change state. Further each switch does not commutate just when its phase current is at the maximum value. All of these features reduce the converter switching loss.

The primary side high frequency converter in generates sinusoidally modulated can be with or without harmonic injection bipolar outputs at the output of each phase in a given switching cycle with a phase shift of half the switching cycle. Subsequently the maximum of the rectified phase to phase waveforms is fed to the ac ac converter which modulates it to generate the ac output. The overall expression for the output waveform of one phase ab is outlined in equation 1 .

In equation 1 M is the modulation index and are line and carrier frequencies and J represents the Bessel function. For an example VSI topology the primary difference for the Fourier series of the output waveform is that only the first and the third term will be necessary since the input to the final converter is a dc. Also the M 2 terms are replaced by M. Using Fourier analysis one can obtain the comparative THD as shown in for the VSI and DPC using hybrid modulation .

The PWL model of the ac ac converter with hybrid modulation is expressed as 2 where symbol i represents the switching states of equation 2 and

The switching function UUT of one leg of the ac ac converter is outlined in equation 3 below. The reaching criterion of equation 2 depends on the number of non repetitive and non redundant switching sequences generated by the non complementary switching functions one switching function for the ac ac converter is given in equation 4 below . For the ac ac converter described by equation 2 the reaching condition is satisfied provided that there exist positive definite matrices P such that 

For the DPC example equations for calculating switching losses of two devices on the same leg under slightly lagging load conditions are provided below. Turn on and turn off losses of channels and turn off losses of body diodes due to its reverse recovery are considered using certain assumptions. Parametric results of conduction losses under different modulation indexes and switching losses under different power factors are plotted and compared with that of a VSI. Three state of the art modulation schemes adopted here for the example VSI include 3harmonic injection V Direct direct SVM with 0 and VV minimum switching loss PWM . All losses are normalized with respect to VSI losses using third harmonic injection method. As shown in the ac ac stage of the example inverter with reduced switching modulation scheme has the lowest conduction and switching losses.

The reaching analyses demonstrate that the hybrid modulation based DPC topology suffers no problem with convergence as compared to the VSI topology. It also demonstrates that the VSI topology can only ensure convergence only up to a minimum value of the intermediate capacitance and hence progressively lower dc link capacitance of VSI does not make it comparable to the DPC topology.

According to other embodiments of the present invention example hybrid modulation methods and systems can be used to provide high power high frequency and scalable inverters for power quality and distributed generation. In addition to residential usages with relatively low power rating fuel cells are increasingly considered for 1 10 mega watt applications to support utility distribution circuit or supply stand alone loads. Similar to the low power case fuel cell stacks in this power range most likely will have low voltage less than 1 kV dc and high current output characteristics. On the other hand the desired output voltage is much higher commonly 12.47 kV ac for the distribution systems in US . The huge gap between these two values makes the design of power electronics inverters which should have high input current and high output voltage handling capabilities a significant challenge.

Existing inverters with the aforementioned power ratings usually operate at low switching frequency around 1 kHz or less due to the limited turn on off performances of the high voltage power devices resulting in bulky and costly magnetics and filters. Recent progress on semiconductor devices especially on SiC based high voltage devices makes inverter design with high frequency switching at 10 kHz or higher a possible and potentially more favorable option than the low frequency based design.

Connecting multiple power electronics modules with their inputs in parallel and outputs in series is a more viable option than using a single module inverter due to the lack of power semiconductor devices which have such high V I ratings. The former option can also have relatively higher reliability and redundancy. Isolation among different modules is required to avoid short circuit and it is usually achieved by using transformers rather than using multiple input fuel cell sources since the latter option may not be available and is usually not cost effective for the power rating of 1 10 MW range.

The conventional high power dc ac inverter topologies usually require multiple isolated dc dc converters with their outputs in series to obtain a high voltage dc bus to feed a following two level or multi level dc ac inverter. Alternatively a multi cell cascaded inverter can be used since isolated dc sources are available.

In any case inductors and capacitors are required for these so called rectifier type inverters to stabilize the dc bus and sink the current if diode rectifiers are used at the front. A typical rectifier type inverter module is shown in which includes a two leg full bridge isolated dc dc converter and a three phase voltage source inverter . The existence of relatively low life time components L and C on the dc bus not only increases the cost but also reduces the system reliability.

Another topology referred to as a cycloconverter type converter reduces the system complexity by removing the dc stage. The circuit shown in includes a two leg full bridge inverter followed by a single phase high frequency transformer and a three phase PWM cycloconverter . Extension for the higher power can be achieved in two ways i connecting the all modules transformer secondary sides in series and feeding the obtained ac bus into a three phase cycloconverter or ii cascading the single phase cycloconverter outputs to form one phase output. Although it has lesser power conversion stage the number of active components required especially for the high voltage secondary side is relatively high due to the bidirectional switches for cycloconverters.

According to another embodiment of the present invention hybrid modulation is used to provide a three phase single source high frequency link isolated rectifier type inverter module that eliminates the need for an inductor or capacitor in its main circuit for high power fuel cell based distributed generation applications. As compared to the cycloconverter type inverter the example topology has less number of active switchers to achieve three phase output.

Generally a high frequency link three phase dc ac inverter is provided according to example embodiments for mega watt range applications as a potential substitute for the conventional low frequency power electronics inverter. The premise of high frequency operation at high power relies on the availability of high voltage SiC power devices currently under developmental progress. The example inverter structure and hybrid modulation method achieve low voltage dc to high voltage ac conversion without the need of constant dc bus. It can reduce the switching losses of the ac ac inverter and enables the scalability for higher power higher voltage applications. An example inverter has less volume low cost and relatively high efficiency.

The circuit schematic of one module of an example inverter is shown in . The module comprises three stages of power conversion 1 a high frequency 10 kHz sinusoidal phase shift modulated zero voltage turn on full bridge inverter which interfaces to a low voltage and high current fuel cell stack 2 a three leg diode rectifier that transforms the bipolar ac voltage at the secondary of the high frequency transformer to a unipolar 20 kHz pulsating waveform which has a 6 pulse envelope and 3 an ac ac converter that converts the pulsating output of the rectifier to an line frequency ac output using pulse width modulation. The high frequency transformers in provide galvanic isolation boost the input side voltage and enable series connection of multiple modules without short circuit.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the final stage ac ac converter is switched in a hybrid manner. Thus only at one third of one period time the devices are operating with high frequency 20 kHz while they stay at either ON or OFF for the rest of the time. This fundamental difference in switching strategies of the inverter leads to lower switching losses. The example inverter can support a load power factor angle up to 30 degrees and may support up to 60 degrees or more. Adding anti parallel switchers to the rectifier diodes provides four quadrant operation. Unidirectional and or bidirectional power flow may be provided. The inverter module can be easily extended to higher voltage or higher power as will be described below.

Two gate signals for phase U and V are plotted in . Since carrier frequency is much higher than the reference frequency UT VT and WT will be square wave with the frequency of 10 kHz and their phases are modulated. The obtained output line line voltages at the primary side of the transformers are bipolar waveforms. Vis plotted in as an example. After passing through the high frequency transformers they are rectified by the three leg diode bridge at the secondary side to obtain a unipolar PWM waveform which has six pulse envelop. Its example waveform is shown in and the mathematic expressions are 

Divide the six pulse rectified waveform into six segments named P P as shown in . The rising and falling edges of Vare different for different segments. FIGS. A F show a particular time interval within segment P where the rising and falling edges of V marked as Vand V are determined by the edges of UT and VT respectively. Other cases are summarized in Table II.

Similarly to the case of a three phase ac dc rectifier the rectified PWM output is contributed respectively by V V V V V and Vat each segment from P to P. The bottom part of shows an example generating of switching signals for three upper switchers of the secondary side ac ac inverter . During each segment every switch will be either permanently ON 1 permanently OFF 0 or toggling with 20 kHz HF . The switching pattern for the upper three switches in each segment for one example cycle period is summarized in Table III.

The switch positions illustrated at for example are for the case of segment P. Since the rectifier output has the same shape as Vwithin this interval the line line voltage Vat the output side of the ac ac inverter can be directly obtained by keeping switchers UUT and VVT at ON and OFF status respectively. Another line line voltage V however needs to be achieved by operating switches on the third leg WWT and WWB in a high frequency way where modulated signal mod is the difference between reference c and b and the carrier signal ramp is a 20 kHz saw tooth waveform synchronized with the PWM output of the rectifier. The key waveforms are shown in . The mathematical expressions for three line line voltages are given as follows 12 13 14 

The example converter topology along with the specific example modulation scheme allows a certain phase displacement between the output current and voltage without using any dc link capacitor or additional active switch. It is up to 30 degree for a balanced three phase system with the assumption that the output phase currents are line frequency sine waves.

Under this example hybrid modulation scheme at any time either one or two of all three upper switches of the ac ac converter will conduct. The current iwill swing between one phase current and the sum of this current and another phase current depending on which segment the converter is locating at. For example ipulsates between iand i iat segment P since UUT is always on VVT is always off while WWT is switching. Similarly ivaries between iand i ifor segment . Row 7 of Table III summarizes cases for all segments.

The fact that i the output current of the diode rectifier should not less than zero results in limitation on load power factor. The maximal phase discrepancies for all segments are listed in Table III row 8. In any case a maximal 30 degree leading or lagging load can be supported in this example. By adding anti parallel active switches for all six diodes the example converter can achieve four quadrant operations without any reactive components in the main circuit.

N modules can be easily connected together to achieve N times higher power rating by paralleling their inputs and connecting their outputs of rectifiers in series. All modules will share currents from the common fuel cell stack. The final stage ac ac inverter can remain the same two level structure as shown in in which the switch can be implemented using either single high voltage rating device or several low voltage rating devices in series. It can also be configured as a multi level structure. shows an alternative configuration for the final ac ac stage using a three level diode clamped NPC inverter. The voltage stresses of devices will be reduced by half as compared to the case of two level.

According to other example embodiments of the present invention soft switching methods and systems are provided for an isolated dc dc converter. High efficiency low cost and high power density are important attributes of a low input voltage three phase converter fed with a low voltage dc source such as but not limited to battery based three phase uninterruptible power supply UPS naval bi directional power conversion modules PCMs fuel cell powered electric motor drive distributed generation DG systems with renewable energy sources and others. Galvanic isolation is typically mandatory for safety concerns and voltage and current scalability and in that regard a high frequency transformer based approach can be a preferable choice from the standpoint of weight footprint and cost reduction.

Among all possible topologies a high frequency link HFL pulse width modulated PWM converter can eliminate the intermediate LC filter that is needed for a conventional high frequency HF fixed dc link converter approach. Further as compared to a resonant link inverter it yields lower switch stress better THD and a simpler all device structure i.e. no passive components in power stages . Thus the PWM HFL converter approach is better suited from the viewpoints of cost efficiency and portability.

Two typical HFL converter topologies have been considered in the art. One proposed topology is a cycloconverter type HFL CHFL converter which reduces the conversion complexity by directly placing a three phase PWM cycloconverter to the secondary side of an HF transformer. The other topology is known as a rectifier type HFL RHFL converter. It possesses a structure similar to that of a conventional fixed dc link converter except for the absence of the dc link filter. Although the RHFL converter includes an extra rectifier stage overall it requires fewer switches since it does not need to handle bi directional voltage.

A typical three phase RHFL converter is illustrated in . It includes two full bridges Bridges I and II as the front end followed by an HF transformer and an ac ac full bridge Bridge III as the final stage. This voltage source inverter VSI like structure provides inherent free wheeling paths in Bridge III which simplifies its switching scheme precluding the possibility of disruption of the load current due to open circuit. Furthermore the auxiliary circuit which is commonly used in an HFL converter to recover the transformer leakage energy and or to limit the secondary side overvoltage can be simplified. Nevertheless the RHFL converter may suffer from additional switching losses because of three stage HF operation.

To address this problem several switching schemes have been proposed for achieving soft switching without using any additional components. The conventional method is to implement a square wave modulation on Bridges I and II and apply one of many well established continuous sine wave modulation schemes to Bridge III. All associated switches on Bridges I and II turn on and turn off during the zero vector intervals of Bridge III to achieve zero current switching ZCS . The normally used schemes for Bridge III are continuous sinusoidal PWM SPWM and space vector modulation SVM . However Bridge III still experiences significant switching losses owing to the usage of slow speed high voltage semiconductor devices that operate under hard switching conditions.

Some discontinuous modulation schemes which were originally proposed for fixed dc input VSI can be utilized for Bridge III to partially reduce its switching losses by allowing no switching on one of its three legs. The ZCS of front end bridges is still applicable. A zero voltage switching ZVS scheme has also been proposed which can partially reduce switching losses of Bridge III by aligning the commutation edges of the devices with the zero input voltage intervals. However this method violates the ZCS condition for front end switches and may not be very effective.

According to additional embodiments of the present invention a soft switching mechanism is provided based on a zero voltage zero current switching ZVZCS principle for a front end isolated dc dc converter of an isolated three phase rectifier type high frequency link RHFL bi directional power converter. By using a back end ac ac converter operating with hybrid modulation to reduce the number of hard switched commutation per switching cycle the example ZVZCS scheme can lead to less overall switching loss as compared to conventional switching schemes. Example ZVZCS devices and methods are effective for various load conditions operate seamlessly with a simple active clamp circuit and are suitable for applications where low voltage dc to high voltage three phase ac power conversion is required.

An example soft switching scheme to further reduce the overall switching losses for the front end isolated dc dc converter of the overall RHFL converter relies on shifting the three phase sinusoidal modulation into primary side. The example soft switching scheme enables ZVZCS for all switches on two front end bridges and is valid for various load conditions and bipolar load current.

The conventional switching scheme applies a square wave modulation on the front end bridges such that Bridge III can be treated as a fixed dc input VSI although its input is not strictly a dc. Various types of SPWM or SVM schemes can be utilized to modulate Bridge III and the zero current switching of both front end bridges can be achieved by switching the associated switches during the zero vector intervals of Bridge III.

Some discontinuous SVM schemes initially considered for fix dc link VSI can also be adopted for Bridge III to reduce its switching loss without affecting the ZCS of Bridges I and II. These schemes differ on how to place V and V. shows gate signals for switches UT VT and WT when Bridge III is modulated using a discontinuous SVM scheme which uses only V. For this scheme at any instant of time only one of the legs of Bridge III does not switch. Herein this scheme is referred to as DIS V .

Another popular SVM scheme also known as minimum switching loss PWM alternatively uses V and V at each of the six adjacent sectors in one line cycle. This method has two variations one which is suitable for inductive loads and the other which is suitable for capacitive loads. For both these schemes at any instant of time only one of the legs of Bridge III does not switch. Herein these schemes will be referred to as DIS VV and DIS VV respectively.

The overall HFL converter illustrated in operates with a ZVZCS scheme for Bridges I and II an example of which will now be described. Hybrid modulation is used for Bridge III such as the example hybrid modulation methods described herein.

Practically a small dead time is added to the complementary switches of Bridge I to prevent the short circuit of input voltage source and a small overlap time is added to the complementary switches of Bridge II to avoid the open circuit of load current. As observed from is larger than to preclude short circuiting of Bridge I output by Bridge II.

The zero voltage regions on V I and IV in allow ZVS operation of switches at the transformer secondary side. Furthermore as will be explained below the transformer current iremains zero during the zero voltage regions and thus provides possibility of ZCS on Bridge I.

Either Bridge I or II will act as a diode rectifier depending on the polarity of i the input current to Bridge III. For positive i diodes on Bridge II conduct otherwise diodes on Bridge I conduct. In either case current of a diode will decay to zero during the zero voltage zero current ZVZC region and before it sustains reverse bias voltages. Therefore diodes of both bridges have lossless turn off which eliminates reverse recovery problems.

Implied from the starting point of a ZVZC region is determined by the turn off edge of K or K if i 0 at the beginning of the region or by the turn on edge of Q or Q if i

This example switching scheme enables a seamless transition between Bridge I ZCS and Bridge II ZVS according to the polarity of output current of Bridge II i without sensing any current or voltage and therefore it is effective for various load conditions. For a three phase RHFL converter inormally experience abrupt changes in magnitude and polarity during a switching period. It is unlike the case in a high frequency switched dc dc unidirectional or bidirectional or a single phase dc ac converter where the output current of the rectifier stage can be regarded as constant.

Furthermore the active clamp circuit used in this example scheme can have multiple functions. It can recover the stored leakage energy and limit the overvoltage spikes caused by the resonance between the leakage inductance and the parasitic capacitance. It can also enable a ZVS turn on for switches Q and Q.

Example ZVZCS operations under various load conditions with an active clamp circuit will now be discussed. Some assumptions are made for clarity 

Waveforms of gate signals current of clamp capacitor i and its voltage Vand transformer current iare sketched on a switching cycle basis for the case of 0 6 small inductive load conditions and 6 2 large inductive load conditions . For each figure waveforms on the left part show a full cycle operation in P t 6 2 while waveforms on the right show a half cycle operation at P t 2 3 5 . The starting points in P and P are marked as tand t . The phase distance between tand the beginning of P 6 equals the distance between t and the beginning of P 2 .

The switch of active clamp circuit S shown in with dotted line turns on before the falling edge of K or K and remains on for a small time of . It turns off before the turn on of switches Q or Q to avoid short circuit of the clamp capacitor C. V the voltage of capacitor C is assumed fixed. Three phase filter inductor currents i i ias defined in equation 17 are assumed constant within one switching cycle and can be written as 

A description of example soft switching operation and analysis under small inductive loads 0 6 will now be provided.

Case 1 t 6 3 P iswitches from ito iwhen WT turns off and i i 0. With their body diodes conduct switches Q Q have no effect on operation. The converter has eleven operating modes within each half switching cycle as illustrated in . The analysis starts at twith zero V iand i. Load currents i i and iare circulating among three legs of Bridge III before t.

Mode 1 t t Switch K turns off with zero current at t switches WT and WB of Bridge III commutate under ZVS. Both voltage Vand Vare zeros.

Mode 2 t t K turns on at t. Because of the existence of leakage inductance the transformer current ican only rise at a finite rate determined by V N L . Therefore the turn on loss of K is small although it is not strictly a zero current switching.

Mode 3 t t ireaches iat t. After that the transformer leakage inductance resonates with the parasitic capacitance. Vincreases rapidly then clamped to V. K and K conduct to transfer power to the secondary side. The stored energy in leakage inductance is recovered to the capacitor C. Currents of transformer and clamp capacitor are 

Mode 5 t t WT turns off and WB turns on at t. ichanges from ito i. Diode of Sconducts. iand ichange in a same way as given in equations 20 and 21 . This mode ends when idecays to zero.

Mode 8 t t At t switch K turns off. Primary side voltage becomes zero and idecays to zero rapidly with a rate determined by V L.

Mode 9 t t At t iequals zero. The diodes on Bridge II turn off lossless. After t iis only supplied by C.

Mode 10 t t Sturns off at t. Parasitic capacitor discharges and Vdecay to zero so as i. Load currents will circulate among Bridge III.

Mode 11 t t V i iand iare all zeros. K turns on at ZCS at t. In order to ensure ZCS operation the time between the two falling edges of K and S should satisfy 

According to the above analysis switches K and K have ZCS off and ZCS on while switches K and K have ZCS on. Switch Sturns on at ZVS. Currents of Q Q decay to zero before the associated switches begin to sustain reverse biased voltage after Vrises . Hence diodes of Q Q have lossless turn off thereby eliminating reverse recovery problems.

Case 2 t 2 3 P In P u t w t is the modulation references for Bridge I and II while v t w t is used to modulate switches on the leg V. Switches UT and WB remain on in P. Consequently iswitches from ito iwhenever VT turns off. The eleven operating modes t t at P are similar to the modes t t at P. The soft switching scheme is also applicable. However since 0

Therefore when 0 6 no switching loss appear on Bridge I and II except the hard turn off on switches K and K. The turn off loss of a MOSFET during one switching cycle can be calculated using the widely accepted estimation equation 31 

Mode 1 t t Switch K turns off under zero current Q turns on under zero voltage at t. Switches WT and WB commutate under zero voltage which cause ichange from ito zero. Q turns off under zero voltage. Voltage V Vand iremain at zero until the turn on of K.

Mode 2 t t to Mode 6 t t resemble the corresponding five modes under the same numbers in Case 1. K turns on with ZCS at tdue to the transformer leakage inductance. After t iis less than zero current flowing in Bridge II shifts from body diodes of Q Q to their IGBTs and diodes in Bridge I conducts current.

Mode 8 t t Sturns off at t which shuts down i. The parasitic capacitance on the secondary side discharges to maintain the transformer current i. Vdrops rapidly. K turns off lossless before tsince its body diode conducts.

Mode 9 t t Switch Q turns on under zero voltage at t and istarts free wheeling through Q and Q. The leakage current ireduces rapidly and the stored energy releases to the primary side.

Mode 10 t t iequals zero after t. Diodes on the primary side turn off softly and therefore Vdrops to zero. i however continues to flow through Q and Q.

Mode 11 t t V i iand Vare all zeros. At t Q turns off under ZVS or ZCS and K turns on under ZCS. At t K turns off under ZCS and Q turns on under ZVS or ZCS . The next half cycle repeats with ZVS turn on of WT.

Therefore switches Q to Q have ZVS on and off while switches K K have ZCS on and ZCS off. Diodes for all front end switches have no switching losses. In other words no switching loss occurs on Bridge I and II for this case.

Mode 1 t t Switch Q turns on at t with ZVS switches VT and VB commutate under the zero voltage. The resultant ichanges from zero into i. This current is freewheeling through switches Q and Q. Voltage Vand Vare still zeros. iremains at zero as well.

Mode 2 t t Q turns off at t . istarts flow through transformer and Q Q. Again the transformer current ican only rise at a finite rate. The parasitic capacitor and Cwill conduct the difference between iand i. Vwill be clamped to Vrapidly. This mode ends at twhen ireaches iafter that the body diode of Sblocks.

Mode 3 t t In this interval iequals i and Vequals N V. The power is flowing back to the input side. K turns on at ZCS since its body diode conducts.

Mode 4 t t VT turns off and VB turns on at t . ichanges from a negative value iinto a positive value i. Currents flowing through Q Q shift from IGBTs to their anti parallel diodes. Currents in K and K change from their body diodes to the MOSFET channels. Similar to the operations in interval t t of a narrow dent on Vmay occur.

Mode 5 t t to Mode 10 t t resemble the operations between t t of Case 2 in and the soft switching during these intervals is the same.

Notice that Q turns on with ZVS between t t and Q turns off with ZVS at t . One can conclude that both Q and Q have ZVS on while both Q and Q have ZVS on and ZVS off. As for Bridge I K K have ZCS on while both K and K have ZCS on and ZCS off. Switching losses in this case include turn off losses of Q Q K and K.

Equation 32 is still applicable for estimating the turn off loss of K and K. As for Q and Q their losses can be calculated based on the assumption that switching energy is proportional to the current 2 34 Ein equation 34 is the per ampere turn off energy for an IGBT. Following the same way the per ampere turn on energy for an IGBT and turn on and turn off energy for a diode can be denoted accordingly.

An analysis and comparison of switching loss can now be provided. Switching losses of front end Bridges I and II are analyzed first. By integrating equation 32 over P and P the switching losses on the two ranges can be calculated respectively as 

Finally the switching losses of Bridge III are analyzed. Following the operating principle of the hybrid modulation described above the switching losses of Bridge III can be described by the following equations 

Example embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein having various features and advantages. Example inverters employing hybrid modulation allow removal of the dc link filter evident in conventional inverters where the diode rectifier stage is followed by a low pass filter and a voltage source inverter VSI . Significant reduction in switching loss of the ac ac converter switches and hence an overall ac ac converter or overall inverter if the ac ac converter is an integral part is provided by modulating the switches of 2 of the 3 legs of a 6 switch ac ac converter at a low frequency e.g. 120 100 Hz while modulating the third leg at high switching frequency. Yet at the output of the AC AC converter or the overall inverter if the AC AC converter is an integral part a three phase sinusoidal modulated waveform is still obtained using an all forced switching VSI. Unlike the VSI approach an example direct power conversion DPC inverter according to embodiments of the present invention allows the retention of the sine wave modulated switching information at the output of the diode rectifier rather than filtering it. Thus for high power applications example embodiments of the present invention provide tangible improvement in footprint space and system reliability due to intermediate bulky filter elimination and higher energy conversion efficiency without compromising quality of voltage output as compared to a conventional VSI approach.

Variations on the example embodiments are possible and such variations are to be considered part of the present invention. As one such nonlimiting example the converters or inverters can be multilevel and scalable for higher power. As another example the input frequency of the AC AC converter pulsating DC can be different from the forced switching frequency of the AC AC converter.

Additionally example soft switching schemes have been provided for the front end of a rectifier type high frequency link RHFL three phase pulse width modulated PWM converter. This soft switching scheme achieves zero current switching ZCS for the primary side full bridge as well as zero voltage switching ZVS for the secondary side full bridge rectifier. The body diodes on both the bridges turn off softly and no reverse recovery problem arises. Example ZVZCS schemes can reduce the overall switching loss of the RHFL converter by shifting switching actions from slow devices on the high voltage side to relatively faster ones on the low voltage side. Therefore such methods and systems are suitable for low voltage dc to high voltage ac conversion. Example soft switching schemes are valid for various load conditions with bi directional power flow.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

