---

title: Suppression of noise in MR images and MR spectroscopic images using signal space projection filtering
abstract: A method for suppressing the noise component of a measured magnetic resonance (MR) signal is disclosed. In particular, a signal-space projection operator is produced and employed to suppress the noise component from acquired MR signals that is uncorrelated with the spatial pattern of a desired NMR signal. In one embodiment, an fMRI scan is performed to acquire time course image data. The NMR data is filtered with a signal-space projection operator and reconstructed into a series of image frames. In another embodiment, the signal-space projection operator is employed to suppress lipid signal in MRS image data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07683620&OS=07683620&RS=07683620
owner: The General Hospital Corporation
number: 07683620
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080502
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 927 461 filed on May 3 2007 and entitled Suppression of Noise in MR Images and MR Spectroscopic Images Using Signal Space Projection Filtering .

This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agency NIH R01 HD040712 NIH R01 NS037462 and NIH P41 RR14075. The United States has certain rights in this invention.

The field of the invention is nuclear magnetic resonance imaging MRI methods and systems. More particularly the invention relates to the filtering of MRI and MRS data to suppress noise patterns that are uncorrelated with the signal pattern.

When a substance such as human tissue is subjected to a uniform magnetic field polarizing field B the individual magnetic moments of the excited nuclei in the tissue attempt to align with this polarizing field but precess about it in random order at their characteristic Larmor frequency. If the substance or tissue is subjected to a magnetic field excitation field B that is in the x y plane and that is near the Larmor frequency the net aligned moment M may be rotated or tipped into the x y plane to produce a net transverse magnetic moment M. A signal is emitted by the excited nuclei or spins after the excitation signal Bis terminated and this signal may be received and processed to form an image.

When utilizing these MR signals to produce images magnetic field gradients G Gand G are employed. Typically the region to be imaged is scanned by a sequence of measurement cycles in which these gradients vary according to the particular localization method being used. The resulting set of received MR signals are digitized and processed to reconstruct the image using one of many well known reconstruction techniques.

The measurement cycle used to acquire each MR signal is performed under the direction of a pulse sequence produced by a pulse sequencer. Clinically available MRI systems store a library of such pulse sequences that can be prescribed to meet the needs of many different clinical applications. Research MRI systems include a library of clinically proven pulse sequences and they also enable the development of new pulse sequences.

The MR signals acquired with an MRI system are signal samples of the subject of the examination in Fourier space or what is often referred to in the art as k space . Each MR measurement cycle or pulse sequence typically samples a portion of k space along a sampling trajectory characteristic of that pulse sequence. Most pulse sequences sample k space in a roster scan like pattern sometimes referred to as a spin warp a Fourier a rectilinear or a Cartesian scan. The spin warp scan technique is discussed in an article entitled Spin Warp MR Imaging and Applications to Human Whole Body Imaging by W. A. Edelstein et al. Physics in Medicine and Biology Vol. 25 pp. 751 756 1980 . It employs a variable amplitude phase encoding magnetic field gradient pulse prior to the acquisition of MR spin echo signals to phase encode spatial information in the direction of this gradient. In a two dimensional implementation 2DFT for example spatial information is encoded in one direction by applying a phase encoding gradient Gy along that direction and then a spin echo signal is acquired in the presence of a readout magnetic field gradient G in a direction orthogonal to the phase encoding direction. The readout gradient present during the spin echo acquisition encodes spatial information in the orthogonal direction. In a typical 2DFT pulse sequence the magnitude of the phase encoding gradient pulse Gis incremented G in the sequence of measurement cycles or views that are acquired during the scan to produce a set of k space MR data from which an entire image can be reconstructed.

There are many other k space sampling patterns used by MRI systems These include radial or projection reconstruction scans in which k space is sampled as a set of radial sampling trajectories extending from the center of k space as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 954 067. The pulse sequences for a radial scan are characterized by the lack of a phase encoding gradient and the presence of a readout gradient that changes direction from one pulse sequence view to the next. There are also many k space sampling methods that are closely related to the radial scan and that sample along a curved k space sampling trajectory rather than the straight line radial trajectory. Such pulse sequences are described for example in Fast Three Dimensional Sodium Imaging MRM 37 706 715 1997 by F. E. Boada et al. and in Rapid 3D PC MRA Using Spiral Projection Imaging Proc. Intl. Soc. Magn. Reson. Med. 13 2005 by K. V. Koladia et al and Spiral Projection Imaging a new fast 3D trajectory Proc. Intl. Soc. Mag. Reson. Med. 13 2005 by J. G. Pipe and Koladia.

An image is reconstructed from the acquired k space data by transforming the k space data set to an image space data set. There are many different methods for performing this task and the method used is often determined by the technique used to acquire the k space data. With a Cartesian grid of k space data that results from a 2D or 3D spin warp acquisition for example the most common reconstruction method used is an inverse Fourier transformation 2DFT or 3DFT along each of the 2 or 3 axes of the data set. With a radial k space data set and its variations the most common reconstruction method includes regridding the k space samples to create a Cartesian grid of k space samples and then perform a 2DFT or 3DFT on the regridded k space data set. In the alternative a radial k space data set can also be transformed to Radon space by performing a 1DFT of each radial projection view and then transforming the Radon space data set to image space by performing a filtered backprojection.

To reduce the time needed to acquire data for an MR image multiple NMR signals may be acquired in the same pulse sequence. The echo planar pulse sequence was proposed by Peter Mansfield J. Phys. C.10 L55 L58 1977 . In contrast to standard pulse sequences the echo planar pulse sequence produces a set of NMR signals for each RF excitation pulse. These NMR signals can be separately phase encoded so that an entire scan of 64 views can be acquired in a single pulse sequence of 20 to 100 milliseconds in duration. The advantages of echo planar imaging EPI are well known and this method is commonly used where the clinical application requires a high temporal resolution. Echo planar pulse sequences are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 678 996 4 733 188 4 716 369 4 355 282 4 588 948 and 4 752 735.

A variant of the echo planar imaging method is the Rapid Acquisition Relaxation Enhanced RARE sequence which is described by J. Hennig et al in an article in Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 3 823 833 1986 entitled RARE Imaging A Fast Imaging Method for Clinical MR. The essential difference between the RARE also called a fast spin echo or FSE sequence and the EPI sequence lies in the manner in which NMR echo signals are produced. The RARE sequence utilizes RF refocused echoes generated from a Carr Purcell Meiboom Gill sequence while EPI methods employ gradient recalled echoes.

Other MRI pulse sequences are known which sample 2D or 3D k space without using phase encoding gradients. These include the projection reconstruction methods known since the inception of magnetic resonance imaging and again being used as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 487 435. Rather than sampling k space in a rectilinear or Cartesian scan pattern by stepping through phase encoding values as described above and shown in projection reconstruction methods sample k space with a series of views that sample radial lines extending outward from the center of k space as shown in . The number of projection views needed to sample k space determines the length of the scan and if an insufficient number of views are acquired streak artifacts are produced in the reconstructed image. There are a number of variations of this straight line radial sampling trajectory in which a curved path is sampled. These include spiral projection imaging and propeller projection imaging.

Recently parallel MRI scanning methods using spatial information derived from the spatial distribution of the receive coils and a corresponding number of receiver channels has been proposed to accelerate MRI scanning. This includes the k space sampling methods described in Sodickson D K Manning W J Simultaneous Acquisition Of Spatial Harmonics SMASH Fast Imaging With Radiofrequency Coil Arrays Magn. Reson. Med. 1997 38 4 591 603 or Griswold M A Jacob P M Heidemann R M Nittka M Jellus V Wang J Kiefer B Hasse A Generalized Autocalibrating Partially parallel Acquisitions GRAPPA Magn. Reson. Med. 2002 47 6 1202 1210 or Pruessmann K P Weiger M Scheidegger M B Boesiger P SENSE Sensitivity Encoding For Fast MRI Magn. Reson. Med. 1999 42 5 952 962 all of which share a similar theoretical background. Parallel MRI accelerates image data acquisition at the cost of reduced signal to noise ratio SNR . The temporal acceleration rate is limited by the number of coils in the array and the number of separate receive channels and the phase encoding schemes used. Typically acceleration factors of 2 or 3 are achieved.

Mathematically the attainable acceleration in parallel MRI is limited by the available independent spatial information among the channels in the array. The parallel MRI image reconstruction manifests itself as a problem in solving an over determined linear system using this spatial information. Therefore advances in the coil array design with more coil elements and receiver channels can increase the acceleration rate when using the parallel MRI technique. Recently optimized head coil arrays have been extended from 8 channel as described in de Zwart J A Ledden P J Kellman P van Gelderen P Duyn J H Design Of A SENSE Optimized High Sensitivity MRI Receive Coil For Brain Imaging Magn. Reson. Med. 2002 47 6 1218 1227 to 16 channel as described in de Zwart J A Ledden P J van Gelderen P Bodurka J Chu R Duyn J H Signal To Noise Ratio And Parallel Imaging Performance Of A 16 Channel Receive Only Brain Coil Array At 3.0 Tesla Magn. Reson. Med. 2004 51 1 22 26 as well as 23 and 90 channel arrays as described in Wiggins G C Potthast A Triantafyllou C Lin F H Benner T Wiggins C J Wald L L A 96 Channel MRI System With 23 and 90 Channel Phase Array Head Coils At 1.5 Tesla 2005 Miami Fla. USA International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine p 671.

As described recently by McDougall M P Wright S M 64 Channel Array Coil For Single Echo Acquisition Magnetic Resonance Imaging Magn. Reson. Med. 2005 54 2 386 392 a dedicated 64 channel linear planar array was developed to achieve 64 fold acceleration using a single echo acquisition SEA pulse sequence and a SENSE reconstruction method. The SEA approach depends on the linear array layout and localized RF coil sensitivity in individual receiver channels to eliminate the phase encoding steps required in conventional imaging. The challenge of this approach is the limited sensitivity in the perpendicular direction to the array plane and the extension of the methodology to head shaped geometries.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI technology provides an approach to study neuronal activity. Conventional fMRI detects changes in cerebral blood volume flow and oxygenation that locally occur in association with increased neuronal activity induced by functional paradigms. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 603 322 an MRI system is used to acquire signals from the brain over a period of time. As the brain performs a task these signals are modulated synchronously with task performance to reveal which regions of the brain are involved in performing the task. The series of fMRI time course images must be acquired at a rate that is high enough to see the changes in brain activity induced by the functional paradigm. In addition because neuronal activity may occur at widely dispersed locations in the brain a relatively large 3D volume or multi slice volume must be acquired in each time frame.

Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy MRS may be used in vivo for the determination of individual chemical compounds located within a volume of interest. The underlying principle of MRS is that atomic nuclei are surrounded by a cloud of electrons that slightly shield the nucleus from any external magnetic field. As the structure of the electron cloud is specific to an individual molecule or compound the magnitude of this screening effect is then also a characteristic of the chemical environment of individual nuclei. Since the resonant frequency of the nuclei is proportional to the magnetic field it experiences the resonant frequency can be determined not only by the external applied field but also by the small field shift generated by the electron cloud. Detection of this chemical shift which is usually expressed as parts per million PPM of the main frequency requires high levels of homogeneity of the main magnetic field B.

Typically MR proton spectroscopy is used to generate a one dimensional 1D frequency spectrum representing the presence of certain chemical bonds in the region of interest. In medical diagnosis and treatment MRS provides a non invasive means of identifying and quantifying metabolites from a region of interest often the human brain. By finding the relative spectral amplitudes resulting from frequency components of different molecules medical professionals can identify chemical species and metabolites indicative of diseases disorders and other pathologies such as Alzheimer s disease cancer stroke and the like. In this context two nuclei are typically of particular interest H and P. Phosphorus 31 MRS is directed to the detection of compounds involved in energy metabolism relating to membrane synthesis and degradation. Metabolites of particular interest in proton MRS studies include glutamate Glu glutainine Gin choline Cho creatine Cre N acetylasparate NAA and the inositols ml and sl . With new contrast agents such as hyperpolarized C13 metabolic processes can be observed in the human body e.g. in the context of cancer detection by analyzing the signal contributions from various metabolites in regions of interest. Also much work has been done in cardiac energetics using P spectroscopy.

Over the past two decades many fast spectroscopic imaging techniques have been proposed among them multiple spin echo acquisition echo planar spatial encoding and spiral readout. Compared to the traditional chemical shift imaging CSI technique these methods offer 2 to 4 fold accelerations in data acquisition time. By contrast Proton Echo Planar Spectroscopic Imaging PEPSI can accelerate data acquisition by an order of magnitude using echo planar readouts to collect spectral and 1 dimensional spatial information. The PEPSI technique has been developed for clinical MR scanners to measure 2D and 3D metabolite distributions in several minutes and with high spatial resolution. Given its benefit of fast acquisition the PEPSI technique has already been employed in many clinical MRS studies.

In co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 091 filed on Jul. 11 2006 and entitled Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Inverse Imaging a method is described which is capable of extremely fast data acquisition due to the minimal gradient cycling used for spatial encoding. This method can resolve physiologic fluctuations caused for example by the cardiac and respiratory cycles. In fMRI experiments functional activations are used to produce corresponding signal fluctuations in active regions of the brain. These desired signal fluctuations can often be obscured by the aforementioned physiologic fluctuations and are generally considered to be noise. A method for filtering out such noise fluctuations from the measured NMR signals is needed.

Another situation in which noise fluctuations can obscure the desired NMR signal is the field of MR spectroscopy. Lipid contamination originating from Gibbs ringing artifacts may complicate the metabolite quantification in MR spectroscopic imaging. Suppression of lipid signal can be done either by outer volume saturation bands at the perimeter of the brain or by lipid nulling with inversion recovery pulses at the cost of increased SAR which is particularly challenging at high fields. Alternatively lipid suppression can be implemented by post processing methods such as widening the k space sampling of lipid signal and therefore diminishing the Gibbs ringing and extrapolating lipid signal to a larger k space region in order to reduce Fourier construction artifacts. Another category of lipid suppression aims to localize lipid signal directly from arbitrarily shaped volume of interest.

The present invention overcomes the drawbacks of the prior methods by providing a method to suppress noise in acquired NMR measurements that obscures a desired NMR signal. This noise can in general be characterized as a component of the measured signal that obscures a desired signal pattern. More specifically the present invention suppresses spatial patterns corresponding to noise from the spatial and temporal or spectral patterns of acquired MRI data.

The invention employs a signal space projection operator to suppresses a noise signal component that is uncorrelated with the spatial patterns of the desired NMR signals. The signal space projection operator may be used in fMRI studies to suppress noise produced by physiologic functions not correlated with the activation pattern being used and it may also be used to suppress lipid signals not correlated with the spatial patterns of metabolites in MRS studies.

It is an object of the invention to employ a signal space projection operator to suppress noise particularly of physiological origin in MR inverse imaging InI data acquired during an fMRI study. When the present invention is employed in an fMRI study the signal space projection operator suppresses the spatial pattern of noise measured in channels of a parallel RF coil array that is uncorrelated with the spatial pattern of the NMR signal to be detected. In studies of evoked functional responses such as event related fMRI the characterization of the noise spatial pattern is implemented by concatenating the pre stimulus baselines of the acquired fMRI data.

It is another object of the invention to employ a signal space projection operator to suppress signal from a selected spin species in MR image data. More specifically the signal from lipid is suppressed in an MR spectroscopic imaging study. Lipid suppression employing the signal space projection operator allows for an increased ability to resolve metabolite peaks. Furthermore it provides better metabolite quantification in peripheral image voxels where quantification of metabolites without lipid suppression is not possible due to strong lipid contamination. MRS image voxels without serious lipid contamination are not affected by this technique. Spectral quality is improved as a result of successful removal of lipid signal in the baseline. Furthermore signal space projection suppresses lipid signal efficiently without intensive computation and can be used alone or in combination with lipid suppression imaging sequences to improve in vivo MRSI quality.

The foregoing and other objects and advantages of the invention will appear from the following description. In the description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which there is shown by way of illustration a preferred embodiment of the invention. Such embodiment does not necessarily represent the full scope of the invention however and reference is made therefore to the claims and herein for interpreting the scope of the invention.

The principle of signal space projection is that a desired signal can be separated from an external noise source given that the desired signal has a spatial distribution sufficiently different than the external noise. In general data that is acquired with an MRI system can be described as having a signal component and a noise component in the form 1 

Where d t is the MR data acquired with the MRI system d t is the signal component and d t is the noise component. When the noise present in the acquired data d t is well characterized by a few spatial patterns d. . . d the external noise source can be described as 2 

Where U is a matrix whose columns form an orthonormal basis for the spatial patterns d. . . d c t is an m component column vector and t is an error term. Signal space projection provides a method for determining the small basis set d. . . d such that the condition presented in equation 2 is met. From equation 2 a signal space projection operator P can be constructed to have the form 3 

Where Uis a noise subspace that contains the first m columns of U I is an identity matrix and . . . denotes the Hermitian transpose operator. In order to calculate the signal space projection operator P a noise space is constructed and then decomposed such that the noise subspace U can be produced.

Consider a noise space Y that contains both spatial and temporal information corresponding to a measured signal although alternatively the noise space may contain spatial and spectral information. By employing singular value decomposition SVD the noise space Y can be decomposed into its respective spatial and temporal or spectral patterns. This SVD is given by Y USV 4 

Where columns of U and V are orthogonal spatial and temporal or spectral patterns respectively and S is a diagonal matrix whose elements are the corresponding singular values in decreasing order. The noise subspace is then selected on the basis of the power spectrum of the singular values in S. By applying the determined signal space projection operator to measured MR data the noise component d t is substantially suppressed. Therefore noise suppressed data is determined by calculating D PD 5 

Where D is the noise suppressed MR data and D is the data matrix whose columns include the MR measurements from all channels in a parallel receiver coil array and whose rows include the MR measurements from all time points or spectral frequencies.

Referring particularly to the preferred embodiment of the invention is employed in an MRI system. The MRI system includes a workstation having a display and a keyboard . The workstation includes a processor that is a commercially available programmable machine running a commercially available operating system. The workstation provides the operator interface that enables scan prescriptions to be entered into the MRI system. The workstation is coupled to four servers a pulse sequence server a data acquisition server a data processing server and a data store server . The workstation and each server and are connected to communicate with each other.

The pulse sequence server functions in response to instructions downloaded from the workstation to operate a gradient system and an RF system . Gradient waveforms necessary to perform the prescribed scan are produced and applied to the gradient system that excites gradient coils in an assembly to produce the magnetic field gradients G Gand Gused for position encoding MR signals. The gradient coil assembly forms part of a magnet assembly that includes a polarizing magnet and a whole body RF coil .

RF excitation waveforms are applied to the RF coil by the RF system to perform the prescribed magnetic resonance pulse sequence. Responsive MR signals detected by the RF coil or a separate local coil not shown in are received by the RF system amplified demodulated filtered and digitized under direction of commands produced by the pulse sequence server . The RF system includes an RF transmitter for producing a wide variety of RF pulses used in MR pulse sequences. The RF transmitter is responsive to the scan prescription and direction from the pulse sequence server to produce RF pulses of the desired frequency phase and pulse amplitude waveform. The generated RF pulses may be applied to the whole body RF coil or to one or more local coils or coil arrays not shown in .

The RF system also includes one or more RF receiver channels. Each RF receiver channel includes an RF amplifier that amplifies the MR signal received by the coil to which it is connected and a detector that detects and digitizes the I and Q quadrature components of the received MR signal. The magnitude of the received MR signal may thus be determined at any sampled point by the square root of the sum of the squares of the I and Q components right arrow over 

The pulse sequence server also optionally receives patient data from a physiological acquisition controller . The controller receives signals from a number of different sensors connected to the patient such as ECG signals from electrodes or respiratory signals from a bellows. Such signals are typically used by the pulse sequence server to synchronize or gate the performance of the scan with the subject s respiration or heart beat.

The pulse sequence server also connects to a scan room interface circuit that receives signals from various sensors associated with the condition of the patient and the magnet system. It is also through the scan room interface circuit that a patient positioning system receives commands to move the patient to desired positions during the scan.

The digitized MR signal samples produced by the RF system are received by the data acquisition server . The data acquisition server operates in response to instructions downloaded from the workstation to receive the real time MR data and provide buffer storage such that no data is lost by data overrun. In some scans the data acquisition server does little more than pass the acquired MR data to the data processor server . However in scans that require information derived from acquired MR data to control the further performance of the scan the data acquisition server is programmed to produce such information and convey it to the pulse sequence server . For example during prescans MR data is acquired and used to calibrate the pulse sequence performed by the pulse sequence server . Also navigator signals may be acquired during a scan and used to adjust RF or gradient system operating parameters or to control the view order in which k space is sampled. And the data acquisition server may be employed to process MR signals used to detect the arrival of contrast agent in an MRA scan. In all these examples the data acquisition server acquires MR data and processes it in real time to produce information that is used to control the scan.

The data processing server receives MR data from the data acquisition server and processes it in accordance with instructions downloaded from the workstation . Such processing may include for example Fourier transformation of raw k space MR data to produce two or three dimensional images the application of filters to a reconstructed image the performance of a backprojection image reconstruction of acquired MR data the calculation of functional MR images the calculation of motion or flow images etc.

Images reconstructed by the data processing server are conveyed back to the workstation where they are stored. Real time images are stored in a data base memory cache not shown from which they may be output to operator display or a display that is located near the magnet assembly for use by attending physicians. Batch mode images or selected real time images are stored in a host database on disc storage . When such images have been reconstructed and transferred to storage the data processing server notifies the data store server on the workstation . The workstation may be used by an operator to archive the images produce films or send the images via a network to other facilities.

In a first embodiment of the invention the signal space projection operator of the present invention is applied to an fMRI study. To achieve an order of magnitude speedup in the acquisition of time resolved MR image data spatial resolution is achieved using a multi element RF coil array as an NMR signal detector rather than the usual time consuming image gradient encoding methods. The characteristics of the RF coil array that lend it to this application are as follows. A number of coil elements surround the object as completely as possible in a densely tiled arrangement. The spatial resolution of the invention is expected to increase as the number of spatially disparate detectors is increased. To provide spatially disparate information the array elements should be uncoupled from one another. To provide both sensitivity and improved spatial information the coils should be as close to the object as possible. If the array elements are for reception only they should be detuned during the transmit phase of the MR experiment.

Referring particularly to in the preferred embodiment of the invention a coil array in the shape of a helmet is used to acquire images from the human brain. The close fitting fiberglass helmet is modeled after the European head standard from EN960 1994 for protective headgear. This coil array has 90 separate RF coil elements that are positioned over the curved helmet surface. Each coil element is substantially circular in shape and adjacent coil elements overlap such that their mutual inductance is minimized. As described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 579 576 filed on Nov. 2 2006 and entitled MRI Polyhedral Coil Array Positioning With Non Zero Gaussian Curvature inductive coupling between coil elements is reduced by overlapping adjacent coil elements and using preamplifier decoupling. The cable leading from each of the 90 coil elements to the preamplifier in its corresponding receiver channel is carefully chosen and the tuning of the matching circuit to the preamplifier is chosen to transform the high preamplifier input impedance to a low impedance across the circular coil element. An arrangement of hexagonal and pentagonal tiles cover the helmet surface similar to a geodesic tiling of a sphere. Each tile has sides that are approximately 23 mm long although it was necessary to distort the pentagonal tiles is places in order to map them onto the surface of the helmet. A circular surface coil is centered on each one of the tiles. Each surface coil is made from 0.031 inch thick G10 copper clad circuit board with a conductor width of 2.5 mm. The diameter of each coil element ranges from 4.5 cm to 5.5 cm. It has been found that significant 5 to 8 fold gains in SNR are possible with this structure as compared to conventional head coils particularly in the cerebral cortex.

In the first preferred embodiment a series of time resolved MR image data sets are acquired of the subject s brain while the subject is performing a prescribed function or while the subject is stimulated in a prescribed manner. MR data for a complete image is acquired each 20 msecs during the dynamic study so that a high temporal resolution of the resulting brain activity is detected. Because the echo time TE needed to obtain maximum BOLD NMR signal response is much longer than 20 msecs e.g. 43 msecs at 1.5T a PRESTO echo shifting pulse sequence such as the one disclosed for example in Liu G et al. A functional MRI technique combining principles of echo shifting with a train of observations PRESTO Magn. Reson. Med. 1993 30 6 764 8 is used.

Referring particularly to the pulse sequence begins by producing transverse magnetization in a slice through the subject by applying a 20 degree RF excitation pulse in the presence of a slice selective gradient . The slice selective gradient is followed by a rephasing gradient . While the rephasing gradient is played out a negative readout gradient lobe is produced in the readout direction. The negative readout gradient lobe is subsequently followed by a series of alternating readout gradients . After the readout gradients have played out a second rephasing lobe is produced in the slice select direction and a positive readout gradient lobe is produced in the readout direction. The purpose of the first and second rephasing gradients and and the negative and positive readout gradient lobes and are such that the net gradient waveform area for each gradient axis e.g. slice select and readout is zero during each repetition time TR interval. As a result of these zeroed gradient waveforms auxiliary gradients can be employed during each TR interval to actively dephase the transverse magnetization such that a shifted echo time TE is achieved. The auxiliary gradients can be played out along any gradient axis and can alternatively be played out as a combination of gradient waveforms on more than one specific gradient axis.

In the first preferred embodiment of the present invention the PRESTO pulse sequence includes a first auxiliary gradient pulse and a second auxiliary gradient pulse which are set to shift the echo time TE two TR periods where a third auxiliary gradient produces an echo train . This is achieved by setting the gradient area of the first auxiliary gradient to 3 A to spoil the transverse magnetization produced by the RF excitation pulse . The second auxiliary gradient has an area of 2 A and thus partially rephases the transverse magnetization. After the application of the third auxiliary gradient which has a gradient area of A the transverse magnetization rephases at the now shifted echo time TE. Data acquisition is only performed during the application of the alternating readout gradients that are played out in the presence of an echo train and the NMR signals corresponding to the echo train are acquired separately by each of the 90 coil elements and each is slightly different due to the different location of each coil element. The result of such a pulse sequence is to increase T weighting of the acquired image data making it desirable for functional MRI fMRI data acquisitions. There is no phase encoding gradient in this pulse sequence and therefore a scan for one image frame includes an application of the pulse sequence in which a straight line through the center of k space is sampled. This is referred to herein as a 1D InI scan in which one gradient encoding axis is eliminated.

Referring particularly to the first step in a preferred fMRI implementation of the present invention is to acquire a series of image frames in a 1D InI scan as indicated at process block which is accomplished using the above described pulse sequence. The resulting 1D array of complex k space samples from each of the 90 receivers and each of the acquired image frames is stored. Prior to performing the noise suppression method of the present invention and subsequently reconstructing image frames the k space data must be prepared as indicated at process block . The nature of this preparation depends to some extent on the particular scan being performed but in the fMRI scan of the preferred embodiment the preparation steps are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 091 filed on Jul. 11 2006 and entitled Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Inverse Imaging . In general the data preparation process includes preprocessing steps common to conventional fMRI techniques. Furthermore the 1D array of k space data for each channel in each image frame is Fourier transformed. This is a standard complex FFT which preserves the phase information in the I and Q components of the resulting signal samples. Each resulting signal sample is spatially resolved along the slice select axis and the readout gradient axis.

Suppression of noise present in the prepared InI image data is performed as indicated at process block . The steps corresponding to the noise suppression method are illustrated in to which reference is now made. The noise suppression method of the present invention begins at process block by producing a noise space data set Y from the acquired image data. For the first embodiment of the invention the noise space data set Y is selected to be the pre stimulus baseline data acquired during the fMRI scan. Here the rows of Y represent the time series from different channels in the parallel RF receiver and the columns of Y represent the spatial pattern of the pre stimulus image data acquired at the different time points in the time series. The singular value decomposition of the noise space data set Y is calculated next in process block . This is performed according to equation 4 and yields the unitary matrices U and V and the diagonal matrix of singular values S. At process block a noise subspace data set U is produced from the unitary matrix U on the basis of the power spectrum of the singular values in S. Therefore the noise subspace data set U contains the first m columns of the unitary matrix U. From the noise subspace data set the signal space projection operator P is subsequently calculated as indicated at process block . The calculation of the signal space projection operator P is performed in accordance with equation 3 above. A noise suppressed data set D can then be produced in step by applying the signal space projection operator to the prepared image data D as described in equation 5 above.

Referring again to the image reconstruction thus proceeds by reconstructing images from the noise suppressed image data D as indicated at process block . In the preferred embodiment the image reconstruction method employs a linear constrained minimum variance LCMV beamformer such as that described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 114 326 filed on May 02 2008 and entitled Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Inverse Imaging Using Linear Constrained Minimum Variance Beamformer . In the alternative the image reconstruction can employ the method described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 091 filed on Jul. 11 2006 and entitled Dynamic Magnetic Resonance Inverse Imaging .

In a second preferred embodiment of the invention the MRI system is employed to acquire and reconstruct MR spectroscopy MRS images. The pulse sequence used to acquire the MRS image data is a Proton Echo Planar Spectroscopy Imaging PEPSI pulse sequence described in Posse S. et al. Magn. Reson. Med. 1995 33 34 40.

Referring particularly to the PEPSI pulse sequence includes a first water suppression section a first outer volume suppression section a stimulated echo preparation section a second water suppression section a second outer volume suppression section and a stimulated echo acquisition section . The first water suppression section begins with a spectrally selective RF excitation pulse that selectively excites all of the water spins contained within the field of view of the MRI system. The transverse magnetization produced by the water spins is then spoiled by the application of a spoiler gradient along the slice select direction a spoiler gradient along the phase encode direction and a spoiler gradient along the readout direction . In the preferred embodiment the first water suppression section is only executed once however in the alternative it may be repeated three times prior to proceeding with the remainder of the pulse sequence.

The PEPSI pulse sequence then proceeds by repeatedly performing a first outer volume section eight times. During each execution of the first outer volume suppression section an RF excitation pulse is played out in the presence of a volume selective gradient applied along the phase encode direction and a volume selective gradient applied along the readout direction . This results in the excitation of the spins in a column along the slice select direction that is defined by the volume selective gradients . The transverse magnetization of these excited spins is subsequently spoiled by the application of a spoiler gradient along the slice select direction the phase encode direction and the readout direction . During each repetition of the first outer volume suppression section the amplitudes of the volume selective gradients are changed in order to select a different volume.

A stimulated echo preparation section is executed next. First a 90 degree RF excitation pulse is played out in the presence of a slice selective gradient . Unwanted transverse magnetization outside of the selected slice is then by the application of a spoiler gradient along the slice select direction the phase encode direction and the readout direction . A second 90 degree RF excitation pulse is then played out again in the presence of a slice selective gradient . As before unwanted transverse magnetization outside of the selected slice is then suppressed by the application of a spoiler gradient along the slice select direction the phase encode direction and the readout direction . A second water suppression section is executed next and is similar to the first water suppression section . Like the first water suppression section the second water suppression section is executed once in the preferred embodiment though in the alternative it may be executed three times. Furthermore a second outer volume suppression section is repeatedly executed eight times in similar fashion to the first outer volume suppression section .

Lastly a stimulated echo acquisition section completes the PEPSI pulse sequence. The stimulated echo acquisition section begins with the application of a 90 degree RF excitation pulse in the presence of a slice selective gradient . The application of this 90 degree RF pulse will provide a stimulated echo from which NMR signals are acquired. To suppress unwanted transverse magnetization a spoiler gradient is played out along the slice select direction the phase encode direction and the readout direction . Next a phase encoding gradient is applied in the presence of a negative readout gradient lobe . As is well known in the art the phase encoding gradient is varied in amplitude during each repetition of the pulse sequence in order to spatial encode the acquired NMR signals. Finally an alternating readout gradient is played out along the readout direction to acquire NMR signals from the stimulated echo produced by the pulse sequence.

Referring particularly to the first step in a preferred MRS implementation of the present invention is to acquire MRS image data as indicated at process block which is accomplished using the above described pulse sequence. The resulting 2D spatial spectral array of complex k space samples from each image slice is stored. The N N columns of the MRS image data D correspond to the spatial size of the acquired data and the Nrows correspond to the spectral range of the acquired MRS image data.

Suppression of lipid signal present in MRS data is performed as indicated at process block . The steps corresponding to the lipid suppression method proceed in the same manner as described above for noise suppression in fMRI and are illustrated in to which reference is now made. The lipid suppression method of the present invention begins at process block by producing a noise space data set Y from the acquired MRS image data. For this embodiment of the invention the noise space data set Y is extracted from the acquire MRS image data by selecting the data corresponding to the spectral range between 1.0 ppm and 1.5 ppm. Here the rows of Y represent the spectral range and the columns of Y represent the spatial pattern of the MRS image data corresponding to the selected spectral range. The singular value decomposition of the noise space data set Y is calculated next in process block . This is performed according to equation 4 and yields the unitary matrices U and V and the diagonal matrix of singular values S. Here the unitary matrix U represents the spatial components of the lipid signal and the unitary matrix V represents the spectral components of the lipid signal. At process block a noise subspace data set U is produced from the unitary matrix U by selecting only the first m components of the unitary matrix U. Substantially all of the lipid signal can be suppressed from the acquired MRS data by employing the produced noise subspace U. From the noise subspace data set the signal space projection operator P is subsequently calculated as indicated at process block . The calculation of the signal space projection operator P is performed in accordance with equation 3 above. A lipid suppressed data set D can then be produced in step by applying the signal space projection operator to the acquired MRS image data D as indicated in equation 5 above.

Referring again to the image reconstruction thus proceeds by reconstructing images from the lipid suppressed image data D as indicated at process block . Even and odd echo data m reconstructed separately using a non water suppressed reference scan for automatic phase and frequency shift correction. Metabolites of N acetyl aspartate NM Creatine Cre and Choline Cho can subsequently be quantified using the LCModel described in Provencher S. W. et al. Magn. Reson. Med. 1993 30 6 672 79. The quality of spectra is further evaluated by Cramer Rao Lower Bound CRLB which is the lowest bound of the standard deviation of estimated metabolite concentration expressed in percentage.

The present invention has been described in terms of one or more preferred embodiments and it should be appreciated that many equivalents alternatives variations and modifications aside from those expressly stated are possible and within the scope of the invention. For example as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the lipid suppression method of the present invention may be expanded to suppress the MR spectroscopic signal from any chemical species by selecting an appropriate spectral range to produce the noise space data set.

