---

title: Photography auto-triage
abstract: In embodiments of photography auto-triage, at least a portion of each photograph in a group of photographs can be analyzed with triage filters of an auto-triage service to identify deficient photographs. The deficient photographs can be identified and then removed from the group of photographs. A compilation of triage-approved photographs is then generated, as well as a compilation of triage-removed photographs can be generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08737695&OS=08737695&RS=08737695
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08737695
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080904
---
Photographers will often take hundreds or thousands of photographs just to get a couple of great photos particularly with the advent of digital photography. Sports and nature photographers are examples of photographers that may work in suboptimal conditions shooting a moving subject and or working from a moving platform such as a small boat. A photographer may take hundreds of photographs and end up with many photos that are not in sharp focus underexposed overexposed and or do not capture a moving subject. The task of reviewing and organizing hundreds or thousands of potentially bad photographs to identify three or four good ones is a very time consuming triage process for a photographer.

This summary is provided to introduce simplified concepts of photography auto triage. The simplified concepts are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Photography auto triage is described. In embodiment s at least a portion of each photograph in a group of photographs can be analyzed with triage filters of an auto triage service to identify deficient photographs. A deficient photograph can be identified and then removed from the group of photographs. A compilation of triage approved photographs can be generated by repeating a process to analyze identify and remove each deficient photograph from the group of photographs. In an embodiment auto triage assessments can be inferred from triage removed photographs to learn identifying deficient photographs.

In other embodiment s the triage filters of the auto triage service can be user selectable to form a combination that includes an exposure filter a dynamic range filter a white balance filter a sharpness filter a vignette filter and or a noise filter. A photograph can be analyzed based on a region of the photograph regions of the photograph pixels of the photograph pixels of a portion of the photograph and or random pixels of the photograph. A photograph can also be analyzed to identify subject matter in the photograph and or a photograph can be analyzed based on metadata that is associated with the photograph. Additionally a photograph can be analyzed based on a combination of the triage filter s subject matter and or metadata that is associated with the photograph.

Embodiments of photography auto triage provide that a photographer can have a group of photographs that are digital images automatically analyzed to identify and remove deficient photographs from the group. This is similar to what a photographer does when manually reviewing and sorting out likely bad photographs before performing a detailed review of potentially good photographs on a larger display. Photography auto triage simplifies the initial review of hundreds or thousands of photographs and saves photographer review time to focus on the task of reviewing the potentially good photographs.

In various embodiments a photography auto triage service can be customized to analyze and sort photographs based on what is acceptable for a particular user and or based on the objective aspects of human nature when selecting photographs to keep or delete. A group of photographs can be analyzed and each photograph can be added to either a compilation of triage removed photographs or added to a compilation of triage approved photographs. Because photograph analysis and decisions as to what is a bad photograph and what is a good photograph generally varies from one photographer to the next a photographer can review the compilation of triage removed photographs and make a final decision on whether to keep a particular photograph.

While features and concepts of the described systems and methods for photography auto triage can be implemented in any number of different environments systems and or various configurations embodiments of photography auto triage are described in the context of the following example systems and environments.

Any of the devices that implement the photography auto triage service can be implemented with one or more processors communication components memory components signal processing and control circuits and a display system. The various devices can also be implemented with any number and combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example device shown in . A device may also be associated with a user i.e. a person and or an entity that operates the device such that a device describes logical devices that include users software and or a combination of devices.

In example system the photography auto triage service includes storage media to store or otherwise maintain photographs as digital images and maintain photograph metadata that is associated with the respective photographs . The storage media can be implemented as any type of memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM any type of magnetic or optical disk storage and or other suitable electronic data storage. The photography auto triage service also includes an auto triage user interface to display photographs on display device of the computer system and or on the integrated display devices of the mobile computing device and the digital camera . The auto triage user interface can also be utilized to initiate features of photography auto triage. In addition the photography auto triage service can be implemented with any number and combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example service shown in .

The photography auto triage service can be implemented to automatically analyze a group of the photographs to identify and remove deficient photographs from the group. This is similar to what a photographer does when reviewing and sorting out likely bad photographs before performing a detailed review of potentially good photographs on a larger display. In various embodiments some of the photographs are identified as the deficient photographs based on technical deficiencies and or user selectable thresholds of various analytical criteria. The photography auto triage service can be customized to analyze and sort the photographs based on what is acceptable for a particular user.

The group of photographs can be analyzed and each photograph can then be added to either a compilation of triage removed photographs or added to a compilation of triage approved photographs . Because photograph analysis and decisions as to what is a bad photograph and what is a good photograph generally varies from one photographer to the next a photographer can review the compilation of triage removed photographs and make a final decision on whether to keep a particular photograph. For example a photographer can tag or otherwise identify a deficient photograph that has been added to the compilation of triage removed photographs and the photograph can then be moved or added to the compilation of triage approved photographs . Similarly a photograph that has been approved can be moved or added to the compilation of triage removed photographs .

In an embodiment of the photography auto triage service implemented on the digital camera a photograph that is identified as a deficient photograph can be deleted to conserve memory space rather than being added to the compilation of triage removed photographs . In addition the photography auto triage service can be implemented to analyze photographs as each photograph is taken or imaged rather than first compiling a group of photographs and then analyzing the group.

In the example system the photography auto triage service includes triage filters that can be implemented as computer executable instructions and executed by processor s to implement various embodiments and or features of photography auto triage. The triage filters can analyze at least a portion of each photograph in a group of photographs to identify and remove the deficient photographs from the group. The triage filters can analyze the photographs or portions thereof based on image analysis algorithms and or mathematical formulas. The various triage filters can be implemented to analyze any one or combination of a region of a photograph regions of the photograph pixels of the photograph pixels of a portion of the photograph random pixels of the photograph and or vectors of the photograph.

The triage filters that implement a pixel based analysis of the photographs or regions of the photographs can be slowed when analyzing large images. For example a large image may be 4 368 pixels by 2 912 pixels which can result in 12 719 616 operations to analyze the pixels of a photograph. A triage filter analysis can be accelerated by choosing random uniformly distributed pixels throughout the photograph rather than analyzing each individual pixel. The photography auto triage service can include a speed vs. accuracy selector that provides user control of triage filter pixel analysis. For an accuracy selection of 100 the photography auto triage service analyzes each individual pixel of a photograph. When selecting faster analysis and correspondingly less accuracy less pixels of the photograph are analyzed and the pixels are selected randomly from throughout the photograph or a region of the photograph.

In various embodiments the triage filters include an exposure filter a dynamic range filter a white balance filter a sharpness filter an vignette filter a noise filter and or other photograph triage filters . Any one or more of the triage filters can be combined to analyze a photograph and identify a potentially deficient photograph. In various embodiments the other photograph triage filters can include third party plug in filters that interface with the photography auto triage service via an API application programming interface that receives a bitmap object and returns a confidence level to accept a photograph. Various settings can also be entered via the API such as high and low boundaries.

The exposure filter can be implemented to identify a photograph that is underexposed or overexposed based on histogram data. The dynamic range filter can be implemented to identify a photograph that has both underexposed areas and overexposed areas based on histogram data. The white balance filter can be implemented to calculate the distance between a red histogram and a blue histogram for a particular photograph . The sharpness filter can be implemented to identify a photograph that does not appear to have a sharp image based on pixel contrast. The vignette filter can be implemented to identify a photograph that has darker and or faded corners based on histogram data. The noise filter can be implemented to analyze occurrences of pattern areas and grain for a particular photograph .

In various embodiments the other photograph triage filters can include a subject matter filter and or a metadata filter. A subject matter filter can be implemented to analyze the photographs to identify or detect subject matter in the photographs such as a human face or any other type of photographic subject matter. A metadata filter can be implemented to analyze the photographs based on the photograph metadata that is associated with a respective photograph . In an embodiment a photograph can be analyzed based on both image analysis such as histogram inference and metadata that is associated with the photograph such as aperture and shutter speed for photography auto triage.

In one example the photograph metadata for a respective photograph can include histogram data triage scores from the various auto triage filters e.g. an exposure score a sharpness score and the like lens information such as a minimum range of the lens e.g. 24 mm a maximum range of the lens e.g. 105 mm a minimum aperture of the lens e.g. f 4 a maximum aperture of the lens e.g. f 32 the focal length e.g. 72 mm a shutter speed e.g. 1 125th of a second the aperture e.g. f 5.6 the ISO film speed e.g. ISO100 the focus mode the drive mode e.g. single frame shooting the metering mode the camera type and serial number the exposure mode e.g. manual aperture priority etc. the date and or time whether a flash was used and or exposure compensation.

A photographer can activate initiate or enable any combination of the triage filters via the auto triage user interface . When a particular triage filter is activated to analyze the photographs the triage filter analyzes a photograph and generates a voting input as to whether the photograph should be added to the compilation of triage removed photographs or added to the compilation of triage approved photographs . In an embodiment the voting input of a triage filter can be recognized as a confidence level between zero 0 and one 1 that reflects a degree as to whether the photograph should be approved based on the current settings. For example a photograph may be analyzed by the exposure filter and the sharpness filter that each return confidence levels that are normalized such as 0.8 1.0 for the exposure filter and 0.9 1.0 for the sharpness filter.

In a further embodiment the triage filters can be weighted such that one photographic aspect is given more weight than another when analyzing a photograph. For example the exposure filter may have a weight of 0.6 and the sharpness filter may have a weight of 0.3. A total normalized confidence for the exposure filter having a weight of 0.3 and a confidence level of 0.8 and for the sharpness filter having a weight of 0.3 and a confidence level of 0.9 would be 0.8 0.6 0.9 0.4 0.48 0.36 0.84. The weights for the triage filters can be user selectable to account for photographer preferences and in this example the exposure of a photograph has a higher weight or is more of a determining factor than the sharpness of the photograph.

In another embodiment a selection threshold can be established as a threshold for the final normalized confidence when the triage filters analyze a photograph. For example the selection threshold may be set at 0.7 and the final normalized confidence in the above example is 0.84. Accordingly the analyzed photograph would be added to the compilation of triage approved photographs . In various embodiments a user can override the analysis of a photograph by the triage filters and identify the photograph as approved or removed regardless of the auto triage analysis.

In the example system the photography auto triage service includes an auto triage assessment module that can be implemented as computer executable instructions and executed by processor s to implement various embodiments and or features of photography auto triage. In an embodiment the auto triage assessment module can infer auto triage assessments from the compilation of triage removed photographs to learn identifying the deficient photographs and or the preferences of a particular photographer. The auto triage assessment module can implement Bayesian inference techniques to learn user preferences from past approved and removed photograph selections. In an embodiment an output of the auto triage assessment module can be utilized to improve photography auto triage and or as a final weight determiner when analyzing the photographs .

The photography auto triage service computer and mobile computing device can all be implemented for communication with each other via communication network s and or a wireless network . The communication network s can be implemented to include any type of data network voice network broadcast network an IP based network a wide area network e.g. the Internet and or wireless network that facilitates data communication between the photography auto triage service and any number of various computer devices. The communication network s can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or data communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks. Any one or more of the arrowed communication links facilitate two way data communications such as from the photography auto triage service to a computer device and vice versa.

System includes a computer device that is representative of computer and or mobile computing device . The computer device can be implemented with processing communication and memory components as well as signal processing and control circuits. The computer device may also be associated with a user owner or photographer i.e. a person and or an entity that operates the device such that the computer device represents logical devices that include users software and or a combination of devices.

In this example the computer device includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like and communication interface s to receive and or communicate data with the photography auto triage service via the communication networks and or the wireless network . The computer device can also include a device manager or controller e.g. a control application software application signal processing and control module etc. .

The computer device also includes photographs as digital images that may include deficient photographs a compilation of triage approved photographs a compilation of triage removed photographs and or photographs that have not been triaged as described with reference to and the features of photography auto triage. The computer device also includes an auto triage user interface or an instantiation of auto triage user interface to display the photographs and initiate features of photography auto triage.

An approved tab is selectable to display thumbnail images of photographs that have been approved by a photography auto triage service. The approved tab indicates that twenty seven 27 photographs have been approved and the approved photographs are representative of the compilation of triage approved photographs shown in . A rejected tab is selectable to display thumbnail images of photographs that have been rejected by a photography auto triage service. The rejected tab indicates that nine 9 photographs have been rejected and the rejected photographs are representative of the compilation of triage removed photographs shown in . The auto triage user interface can display the compilation of triage approved photographs e.g. the thumbnail images that remain in a group of photographs after the deficient photographs are removed and can display the compilation of triage removed photographs e.g. the thumbnail images thereof .

In an embodiment photographs can be staged as un triaged and thumbnail images of the photographs displayed in the un triaged tab . The photographs can then be moved or added manually or automatically to the approved tab or to the rejected tab as the photographer and or the photography auto triage service analyze the photographs. A photographer can manually approve or reject a photograph and or move a photograph back to the un triaged tab .

An exposure tab displays an exposure filter user interface that corresponds to an implementation of the exposure auto triage filter that is implemented to identify a photograph that is underexposed or overexposed based on histogram data. The exposure filter can calculate how close the histogram values are to the edges of a histogram graph to determine if the photograph is underexposed e.g. histogram curve shifted left towards shadows or if the photograph is overexposed e.g. histogram curve shifted right towards highlights .

The exposure filter user interface includes a sliding scale of stop points a middle point selectable indicator and selectable range indicators . The middle point and exposure range can be adjusted for photographer preferences such as for a lighter or darker appearance of a photograph. Alternatively or in addition the middle point and exposure range can be adjusted to compensate if a photograph includes a naturally lighter subject such as snow or includes a darker subject matter such as a person performing on a dark stage. The sliding scale provides customization to analyze and detect particular photographic variations.

In various embodiments the sliding scale implementations of the triage filter user interfaces i.e. that correspond to each of the user selectable tabs provides an interactive auto triage service that can be manipulated or adjusted to generate a manageable number of triage approved images. In various embodiments the un triaged photographs can be analyzed more than once with different combinations of auto triage filters enabled and or with different sliding scale settings to compare the outcomes of the photographs that are triage approved or triage removed. Alternatively or in addition a first combination and setting of auto triage filters can analyze the un triaged photographs to generate the compilation of triage approved photographs and then as second combination and setting of auto triage filters can analyze just the compilation of triage approved photographs.

Aperture metadata can also be evaluated because images generated with a smaller aperture can be expected to have a larger percentage on focus. For example if a photograph is imaged at f 16 and only 10 of the photograph is deemed sharp the photograph would be triage removed whereas if the photograph is imaged at f 2.8 and the same amount of the photograph is sharp then the image would be triage approved at the same threshold. In addition the minimum and maximum aperture of the lens can be evaluated as well as the minimum and maximum focal length of a zoom lens. The sharpness user interface includes a sliding scale of percentages a middle point selectable indicator and selectable range indicators . The middle point and sharpness range can be adjusted for photographer preferences and or to compensate for photographic variations.

Example method is described with reference to in accordance with one or more embodiments of photography auto triage. Generally any of the functions methods procedures components and modules described herein can be implemented using hardware software firmware fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. A software implementation of a function method procedure component or module represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor. Example method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include software applications routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like.

The method s may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. Further the features described herein are platform independent such that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of computing platforms having a variety of processors.

At block at least a portion of each photograph in a group of photographs is analyzed with triage filters of an auto triage service. For example the triage filters of the photography auto triage service analyze at least a portion of each photograph in the group of photographs to identify and remove the deficient photographs from the group. The triage filters analyze any one or combination of a region of a photograph regions of the photograph pixels of the photograph pixels of a portion of the photograph and or random pixels of the photograph. Each of the triage filters are user selectable to form a combination that includes the exposure filter dynamic range filter white balance filter sharpness filter vignette filter noise filter and or other photograph triage filters .

At block each photograph in the group of photographs is analyzed to identify subject matter in the photographs. For example the photography auto triage service can include a subject matter filter that analyzes the photographs to identify or detect subject matter in the photographs such as a human face or any other type of photographic subject matter.

At block each photograph in the group of photographs is analyzed based on metadata that is associated with a respective photograph. For example the photography auto triage service can include a metadata filter that analyzes the photographs based on the photograph metadata that is associated with a respective photograph .

At block a deficient photograph is identified and at block the deficient photograph is removed from the group of photographs. For example the triage filters analyze the group of photographs to identify and remove deficient photographs from the group. This is similar to what a photographer does when reviewing and sorting out likely bad photographs before performing a detailed review of potentially good photographs on a larger display.

At block a compilation of triage approved photographs is generated and at block a compilation of triage removed photographs is generated. For example the photography auto triage service analyzes the group of photographs and each photograph is then added to either the compilation of triage removed photographs or added to the compilation of triage approved photographs .

At block auto triage assessments are inferred from the triage removed photographs to learn identifying deficient photographs. For example the auto triage assessment module of the photography auto triage service infers auto triage assessments from the compilation of triage removed photographs to learn identifying the deficient photographs and or the preferences of a particular photographer. In an embodiment the method continues at block to repeat analyzing the photographs identifying the deficient photographs and removing each photograph that is identified as deficient from the group of photographs .

Service can include one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of service and to implement embodiments of photography auto triage. Alternatively or in addition service can be implemented with any one or combination of hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that is implemented in connection with signal processing and control circuits generally identified at .

Service can also include computer readable media such as one or more memory components examples of which include random access memory RAM non volatile memory e.g. any one or more of a read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device can include any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable and or rewriteable compact disc CD any type of a digital versatile disc DVD and the like.

Computer readable media provides data storage mechanisms to store various types of information and or data related to operational aspects of service such as photographs and provides storage for various service applications . For example an operating system can be maintained as a computer application with the computer readable media and executed on the processors . The service applications can also include a photography auto triage service . In this example the service applications are shown as software modules and or computer applications that can implement various embodiments of photography auto triage.

Although not shown service can include a system bus or data transfer system that couples the various components within the service. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures.

Device can include one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of device and to implement embodiments of photography auto triage. Alternatively or in addition device can be implemented with any one or combination of hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that is implemented in connection with signal processing and control circuits which are generally identified at .

Device can also include computer readable media such as one or more memory components examples of which include random access memory RAM non volatile memory e.g. any one or more of a read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device can include any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable and or rewriteable compact disc CD any type of a digital versatile disc DVD and the like.

Computer readable media provides data storage mechanisms to store the digital images as well as various device applications and any other types of information and or data related to operational aspects of device . For example an operating system can be maintained as a computer application with the computer readable media and executed on the processors . The device applications can also include a device manager and a photography auto triage service . In this example the device applications are shown as software modules and or computer applications that can implement various embodiments of photography auto triage.

Device can also include an audio video and or image processing system that provides audio data to an audio rendering system and or provides video or image data to a display system . The audio rendering system and or the display system can include any devices or components that process display and or otherwise render audio video and image data. The audio rendering system and or the display system can be implemented as integrated components of the example device .

Although not shown device can include a system bus or data transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures.

Although embodiments of photography auto triage have been described in language specific to features and or methods it is to be understood that the subject of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of photography auto triage.

