---

title: Mounting console with visibility improvements
abstract: A steering wheel assembly for a construction vehicle, such as a motor grader, is provided. The steering wheel assembly includes a chamfer or defines a space for viewing a portion of a grader blade of the motor grader.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08333250&OS=08333250&RS=08333250
owner: Deere & Company
number: 08333250
owner_city: Moline
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080307
---
The present disclosure includes a console for controlling a construction vehicle such as a motor grader.

Visibility to the grader blade of a motor grader is an important feature for the motor grader operator. The operator benefits by being able to see as much of the blade and ground around the blade as possible. Work and productivity increase when the operator is able to see obstructions such as grade stakes manhole covers and other obstacles. In an operation such as steep slope work the operator may lean to the side to keep the operator s body upright while the motor grader is at an angle due to the slope. The operator s visibility of the grader blade may be reduced by the steering console.

According to one aspect of the present invention a motor grader is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis and including at least one front traction device and at least one rear traction device a grader blade supported by the chassis and positioned between the at least one front traction device and the at least one rear traction device and an operator cab supported by the chassis. The operator cab includes a plurality of sides defining an interior region the plurality of sides including a front side and at least two lateral sides. The front side includes at least one window. The motor grader further includes an operator seat assembly supported by the chassis and configured to support an operator and a console assembly supported by the chassis between the operator seat assembly and the front side of the operator cab. The console assembly includes a console and a control supported on the console. The console includes a base supported by the chassis and a pedestal supported by the base. The pedestal includes a rear end a forward end and lateral sides including at least one substantially vertical chamfer extending rearward and inward to decrease the viewable profile of the console as seen by the operator in the operator seat assembly.

According to another aspect of the present invention a motor grader is provided that includes a chassis including a mainframe defining a maximum lateral width and a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis and including at least one front traction device and at least one rear traction device. The mainframe extends between the at least one front traction device and the operator cab. The motor grader further includes a grader blade supported by the mainframe and positioned between the at least one front traction device and the at least one rear traction device and an operator cab supported by the chassis. The operator cab includes a plurality of sides defining an interior region the plurality of sides including a front side and at least two lateral sides. The front side includes at least one window. The motor grader further includes a steering wheel assembly supported by the chassis. The steering wheel assembly includes a steering console and a steering wheel rotatably supported on the steering console. The steering console includes a rear end a console front end and at least two lateral sides. A maximum lateral width between the at least two lateral sides of the console is less than the maximum lateral width of the mainframe.

According to another aspect of the present invention a motor grader is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis and including at least one front traction device and at least one rear traction device a grader blade supported by the chassis and positioned between the at least one front traction device and the at least one rear traction device and an operator cab supported by the chassis. The operator cab includes a plurality of sides defining an interior region the plurality of sides including a front side and at least two lateral sides. The front side includes at least one window. The motor grader further includes a steering wheel assembly supported by the chassis. The steering wheel assembly includes a steering console and a steering wheel rotatably supported on the steering console. The steering console includes a rear end a front side and at least two lateral sides. The rear end of the steering console defines a maximum lateral width less than a maximum width between the at least two lateral sides of the steering console.

According to another aspect of the present invention a motor grader is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis and including at least one front traction device and at least one rear traction device a grader blade supported by the chassis and positioned between the at least one front traction device and the at least one rear traction device and a steering wheel assembly supported by the chassis. The steering wheel assembly includes a steering console and a steering wheel rotatably supported on the steering console. The steering console has a maximum lateral width. The steering wheel has a diameter. The diameter of the steering wheel is equal to or less than the maximum lateral width of the steering console.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. Although the drawings represent embodiments of the present invention the drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be exaggerated in order to better illustrate and explain the present invention.

The embodiments disclosed below are not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed in the following detailed description. Rather the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art may utilize their teachings.

Motor grader is shown in for spreading and leveling dirt gravel or other materials. Grader includes articulated chassis operator cab front and rear traction devices also described as wheels to propel chassis and the remainder of grader along the ground engine to power operation of grader and grader blade supported by chassis . Chassis includes mainframe extending between front wheels and cab . Mainframe supports grader blade .

Grader blade of is shown in an angled position in such that the right end of grader blade is a leading end also described as toe and the left end of grader blade is a trailing end also described as heel for spreading and leveling. In addition to blade grader is provided with scarifier and ripper for working the soil as shown in . Although motor grader is described in detail the features described herein may be provided on other vehicles such as bull dozers front loaders and other construction vehicles having various ground engaging tools and traction devices such as wheels and tracks. Grader blade is described as a ground engaging blade but is not limited to engagement with soil dirt gravel etc.

Operator cab includes front side rear side and lateral side . As described in greater detail below a plurality of sides including front side and lateral side define interior region shown in . In a view of toe and heel of grader blade from an operator s perspective within interior region is shown. Front side includes at least one window . Similarly lateral side includes at least one window . Also located within interior region is steering wheel or console assembly . Steering wheel assembly is supported by chassis . Steering wheel assembly includes steering console and control shown in phantom supported by steering console . Control may control any function of motor grader and may include steering wheel defining a diameter . In this embodiment diameter is approximately 10.0 inches.

Interior region of cab also includes operator seat assembly . Referring to steering wheel assembly and operator seat assembly are shown. Operator seat assembly includes joysticks configured to control at least one function of motor grader . In this view steering wheel assembly is shown with optional cover . Additional details of operator seat assembly are provided in U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. unknown entitled ARMREST MOUNTED GRADER CONTROL filed Mar. 7 2008 to Martin L. Ruhter et. al the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Referring to rear end forward end and lateral sides of steering console define interior region . A portion of pedestal is broken away to show interior region with controls plumbing and wire harnesses .

As shown in steering console is devoid of joysticks such as those supported by seat assembly and shown in . In another embodiment steering console may include joysticks . Steering console includes base supported by chassis pedestal supported by base and head supported by pedestal . Head of steering console includes lower portion and upper portion . As shown in console may tilt to any position between first position also known as a stowed position and second position relative to base .

Referring back to pedestal includes rear end forward end and lateral sides . Although rear and front ends are shown as substantially flat they may be other shapes or come to a point. Lateral sides include chamfer . Chamfer may be vertical or substantially vertical. Chamfer may provide a flat or a curved surface and may extend rearward and inward. Chamfer defines space adjacent to chamfer . By providing space obstructions to viewing toe or heel or grader blade are decreased. Thus space provides an increased view of toe or heel of grader blade . Similarly chamfer decreases the viewable profile as shown in of pedestal to increase the visibility of grader blade . For example in the viewable profile of pedestal without chamfer is greater than viewable profile with chamfer . Vertical or substantially vertical line in phantom shows viewable profile of steering console without left chamfer .

Chamfer and rear end define angle shown in phantom greater than approximately 100 degrees. In the preferred embodiment chamfer and rear end define angle of approximately 135 degrees. In this embodiment angle is shown towards interior region . In other embodiments angle is less than 100 degrees.

Referring to lower portion of head defines maximum lateral width while upper portion defines lateral width . As illustrated in this embodiment maximum lateral width is greater than lateral width . Head also defines head recess . As illustrated in this embodiment head recess includes the difference between maximum lateral width and lateral width . Pedestal also defines a maximum lateral width . In one embodiment pedestal defines maximum lateral width as a maximum lateral distance between lateral sides of pedestal . As illustrated in this embodiment maximum lateral width is greater than maximum lateral width of pedestal . In another embodiment maximum lateral width is less than maximum lateral width . As illustrated in lateral width of upper portion of head is also greater than maximum lateral width pf pedestal . In this embodiment diameter is equal to or greater than maximum lateral width or of steering console .

Referring to a view from an operator positioned within interior region is shown. Chassis as well as mainframe are shown. Mainframe is shown defining maximum lateral width . Also shown in steering wheel assembly is located within interior region and also located between operator seat assembly and front side of operator cab . More specifically chamfer is located between joysticks and front side of operator cab . Space is shown to decrease viewable profile of pedestal and therefore increase the visibility past steering wheel assembly .

As shown in maximum lateral width of mainframe is shown as equal to or greater than any maximum lateral widths or of steering console . Viewable profile without chamfer of steering console along vertical or substantially vertical line is shown. As previously described chamfer and space decrease the viewable profile of pedestal . For example viewable profile with chamfer is less than viewable profile without chamfer . Furthermore chamfer and space provide an increased view of toe or heel of grader blade .

While this invention has been described as having an exemplary design the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains.

