---

title: Providing context for web articles
abstract: An overwhelming number of articles are available everyday via the internet. Unfortunately, it is impossible to peruse more than a handful, and it is difficult to ascertain an article's social context. The techniques disclosed herein address this problem by harnessing implicit and explicit contextual information from social media. By extracting text surrounding a hyperlink to an article in a post and assessing the article as a function of content surrounding the hyperlink, an article's social context is determined and presented. Additionally, articles that are sufficiently similar in content may be grouped to establish a many-to-one relationship between posts and an article, creating a more accurate assessment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08630972&OS=08630972&RS=08630972
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08630972
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080621
---
Today the World Wide Web makes it easy for people to access articles from a multitude of sources. An overwhelming number of new articles are available everyday via the Internet. Unfortunately a reader may peruse only a handful of articles and deciding which articles are most valuable to that reader in helping understand the story is a difficult task. To simplify the selection process many people rely on a blog or several blogs for guidance. However by doing this they are exposing themselves to that particular blog s editorial biases.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein one or more techniques are disclosed that assess an article as a function of content surrounding hyperlinks that point to an article e.g. a news article found in one or more posts e.g. blog posts tweets etc. . In one example the emotional charge an article creates is assessed according to language surrounding the hyperlinks that points to an article in one or more posts. The content surrounding the hyperlinks is assessed according to some predetermined criteria e.g. emotional charge . Since it is likely that the content surrounding the hyperlink is regarding the article the assessment of the regions of content surrounding said hyperlinks serves as the basis for the article s assessment. For example if only one hyperlink points to an article and the assessment of the content surrounding the hyperlink is determined to be very emotionally charged the article will be assessed as being very emotionally charged. However using the same example if another post cites the same article e.g. contains a hyperlink to the same article and the content surrounding the hyperlink in the new post is assessed as not emotionally charged the article s assessment may be aggregated using the assessments of both posts e.g. the article may be assessed as being slightly emotional charged .

Additionally hyperlinks that point to different articles that are sufficiently similar in content may be modified to point to a single article if the articles are judged to contain the sufficiently similar content via some method e.g. if the counts of sufficiently long term sequences in the different articles are the same . In one example two local news agencies e.g. a local newspaper in one city and a local newspaper in a different city acquire an article from a national news agency. The two local news agencies modify the article e.g. to language more appropriate for their readers they acquired from the national news agency and repost the modified article still comprising substantially the same content on their website for example. Then two blog posts for example are posted with hyperlinks to different news agency but relating to a story originally published by the national news agency. If enough term sequences are common amongst the two articles the technique disclosed herein may detect that those two articles are sufficiently similar in content e.g. they are duplicate articles . This technique may help ensure that multiple hyperlinks point to the same article e.g. improving the accuracy of the assessment and improving the quality of context provided for that article .

The technique disclosed herein improves a user s ability to search for and select an article by providing a user with some context surrounding the article. In one example a user may find the most popular articles discussed the most articles discussed in a particular category and the articles most emotionally discussed in a particular category. Additionally rather than relying on a particular site for articles and or a particular blog for example to provide context surrounding an article a user is given a more objective means for evaluating which articles to read among the thousands posted every day.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Turning initially to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for making an assessment of an article. The assessment may provide some context surrounding the article and provide a user with some criteria to assist in selecting an appropriate article. In one example the article is a news story and a post provides information such as how popular the article is who is reading it and how people feel about the article.

At an article is assessed as a function of meaning of content surrounding a hyperlink pointing to the article in view of contemporary lexicon or generally understood vernacular of the day. That is the meaning of the words and language surrounding the hyperlink at the time they are used e.g. fifteenth century old English is very different than modern contemporary English . It will be appreciated that the term meaning is used in a broad sense herein to describe or comprise among other things a level of context that a term connotes in present language and or a definition of a term e.g. the assessment may include but does not require a cognitive step . An assessment component for example may be implemented to assess one or more terms independently or may receive input e.g. such as being trained to associate a particular term with a meaning weight etc. that allows the content to be assessed. It will be appreciated that as a term s societal meaning changes the assessment component may adjust to fit the contemporary understanding of the term. It will be appreciated that unlike simple counting techniques more than just the frequency of a term in the content surrounding the related hyperlink is examined in assessing the article. For example if very angry appeared in the content surrounding a hyperlink the article may be categorized as having a high emotional charge. In one example the hyperlink is found in a post and a post writer s language provides the content used to assess e.g. according to some predetermined criteria the article. To assess the article a particular number of terms e.g. 30 terms on one or both sides of the hyperlink are extracted and assessed. In one example the terms are assessed by a Maximum Entropy classifier which produces binary output e.g. 0 for a non emotional article and 1 for an emotional article and a confidence score indicating how confident it is with the binary output. Once the content surrounding the hyperlink pointing to the article is assessed the article is assessed as a function of the assessment of the content surrounding the hyperlinks from all posts pointing to said article e.g. aggregating the values produced by the Maximum Entropy classifier .

By way of example content is acquired by monitoring social media e.g. weblogs usenet microblogs message board forums etc. and receiving feeds e.g. including an XML data stream from ping servers and syndication feed crawlers. The XML stream is parsed and the title body permalink URL and timestamp are acquired for a post comprising a hyperlink and stored. To provide better performance an in memory queue for example is utilized to temporarily store posts coming through a feed when there are bursts of traffic and an offline queue is used to temporarily store information that is acquired but cannot be stored quickly enough. The post is assigned a social media identification tag that matches the post s permalink e.g. contained on a whitelist . The social media identification tag allows the post to be classified according to some category politically liberal politically conservative sports celebrity gossip etc. .

Once the post is acquired HTML tags are removed and hyperlinks e.g. URLs pointing a user to another page are replaced with placeholders e.g. numbered URL markers . In one example the placeholder acts as a bookmark and a particular number of terms before and after the placeholder may be used to assess the article related to placeholder e.g. the hyperlink . The hyperlinks are stored corresponding to their respective placeholder. Additionally the hyperlinks are classified as either pointing to a site containing articles e.g. in a database of sites that often contain articles pertaining to a particular category of interest or pointing to some other social media such as another blog for example. Hyperlinks classified as pointing to something else may be used to provide more content for making an assessment. For example the hyperlink may point to another post and the content of that post is extracted and assessed to provide more context for the article.

A hyperlink that points to a site containing articles is compared to URLs from articles already retrieved from the site. In one example URL s of articles already retrieved are only stored for a predetermined time period e.g. 1 day 1 week etc. to ensure that new articles having the same URL are detected. For example a URL for a page containing the editor s pick of the week and may have a different article weekly. If the hyperlink matches a URL from an article already retrieved the hyperlink is paired with an identification tag assigned to the article already retrieved. If the hyperlink does not match a URL from an article already retrieved the article related to the hyperlink is retrieved.

Additionally the article related to the hyperlink is compared to other articles already retrieved to find sufficiently similar content e.g. 85 of the terms in the article are the same as those that appear on an article already retrieved . In one example an article from one news source is syndicated and appears on multiple other news sources. Since multiple posts might point to different sources e.g. having different URLs for the same article articles with the same or sufficiently similar content might be retrieved multiple times. Articles are sufficiently similar in content when the ratio of the longest term sequence e.g. the most words in a row amongst two articles and the number of terms in the largest article exceeds some threshold for example. Additionally articles may be sufficiently similar in content for example if the fraction of terms that appear in two articles exceeds some threshold. If the article is sufficiently similar in content with an article already retrieved the article is treated as a duplicated e.g. it may be discarded . Additionally the hyperlink that was paired with the article s identification tag gets updated with the identification tag assigned to the article already retrieved. In one example the identification tag assigned to the article also gets paired with the URL from the recently retrieved article e.g. so that the same article will not be retrieved when future hyperlinks point to the recently acquired article s URL . By pairing multiple hyperlinks to the same identification tag e.g. the same article a many to one relationship is established.

After an article and a post are paired the article is assessed e.g. according to some predetermined criteria as a function of content surrounding the hyperlink. In one example the article is assessed for the emotional charge of text surrounding a hyperlink in the post. A particular number of terms e.g. 30 terms on one or both sides of the placeholder are extracted and run through a classifier and or another automatic method for assessing the content. The classifier assesses the terms thereby assessing the content as it relates to the article and the article itself. If the article has been previously assessed e.g. where an article had already been retrieved because of a hyperlink in another post that has previously been assessed the article s assessment is aggregated e.g. according the binary output of related posts the confidence score of related posts and the number of hyperlinks paired to the article . The content of a post may not be reassessed if it has already been assessed. It will be appreciated that other social media pointed to by other hyperlinks in the post may also be used to provide further assessment for the article.

A device e.g. a serving computer allows information to be retrieved from storage. For example a web service may expose methods for retrieving the article the related post s and the assessments. In one example the web service may allow retrieval of the most linked to news articles the most linked to news articles that contain a given keyword and links for a given news article and category it is related to. Additionally the web service may cache some information for a period of time so that repeated requests for this data does not generate excessive load on a storage component e.g. when the data infrequently changes .

A user interface provides a user with the article and context surrounding the article e.g. by displaying the assessment and the related post or posts . It will be appreciated that a category or categories e.g. of blogs may be chosen by default according to some predetermined criteria. It will also be appreciated that an article or articles and their respective assessments may be displayed by default according to some predetermined criteria. Additionally a user may alter a default category ies and or article s as a function of user input e.g. selecting a different category inputting a keyword relating to the desired article etc. . In one example the title of an article may represent the article an indicator box may represent the post s and small boxes may represent the assessment. An article may be presented for example by selecting the title of the article. A user may focus on the indicator box and the title of the post s for example related to the article may be presented. Where a title s of a post s is presented small boxes may also be presented to represent the post s assessment for example. Additionally a user may select a post s title and the post may be presented for example.

A user may focus on the indicator box and the titles of the posts related to the article may be displayed in a separate field as illustrated in . Additionally small indicator boxes may represent a post s assessment. In the illustrated example the user focused on the 5 in the tab comprising articles in the politically conservative category and the five posts e.g. from politically conservative blogs that have a hyperlink associated with that article e.g. that have a hyperlink that has been updated with that article s identification tag are displayed. A user may select a post s title and the post associated with that title will be presented to the user. It will be appreciated that the small boxes presented in this illustration may illustrate any assessment e.g. not just emotional charge . It will also be appreciated that something other than a small box may be used to represent an article and or a post s assessment.

Turning to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for making an assessment of an article. In one example an article can be a news story and blog posts can provide information such as how popular the article is who is linking to it and how people feel about the article. This information may be presented to a user so that the user may make a more informed selection concerning which article to read. At social media is monitored and a post is acquired and stored e.g. in a storage component such as a database . The social media may include for example weblogs usenet microblogs and message board forums. The monitoring may be limited to a segment of the social media as a function of a predetermined topic conservative issues liberal issues sports news new car releases celebrity gossip etc. of interest e.g. where a whitelist may be used to define what social media is monitored . Additionally the social media acquired may be limited to those that comprise hyperlinks pointing to category related sites e.g. the category related sites are contained on a whitelist . In one example ping servers are monitored and feeds are crawled in response to ping events. For posts that do not provide regular pings scheduled crawling may be performed. Partial feeds may be augmented with an intelligent scraping mechanism for example which parses the structure of the permalink page extracting the complete content of the post. HTML tags may be removed and hyperlinks replaced with placeholders e.g. numbered URL markers corresponding to their respective hyperlink. The hyperlinks are classified as either pointing to a site containing an article or some other social media. The information acquired e.g. the title of the post permalink URL of the post a timestamp related to when the post was posted the hyperlinks and the post including any placeholders is stored for later retrieval e.g. in a storage component such as a database .

At a first article corresponding to a first hyperlink in the post that points to a site is retrieved. If the URL of the first hyperlink matches a URL of a previously retrieved article the first article is not retrieved a second time. It will be appreciated that the URL from a previously retrieved article may be stored for a predetermined period of time e.g. after the predetermined period of time has expired the URL will be deleted and the article on the corresponding page will have to be retrieved if a new post contains the same URL . If the first article was previously extracted and stored the first hyperlink may get updated with an identification tag already assigned to the stored first article. Multiple posts using the same hyperlink may create a many to one relationship between an article and hyperlinks. In one example the full text of the page e.g. the article copyrights headers etc. is retrieved and reduced to the article using a Hidden Markov Model based text segmentation algorithm or other algorithms based on pattern recognition in a page s HTML markup. For example term sequences of a minimum length e.g. sequences of 10 terms or more may be grouped e.g. to avoid eliminating terms that may be common independently of whether they correspond to the article or the full text of the page and compared to other pages from the same site. Those terms that are not found on many other pages are determined to be the article. Additionally the first article is assigned some identification tag and the first hyperlink may get updated with this identification tag.

At the first article is compared to previously stored articles and the first hyperlink is updated to point to the second article if the first article and the second article are sufficiently similar in content. In one example a first hyperlink and a second hyperlink may point to different articles that have been slightly modified from an original syndicated article. If a threshold e.g. 85 of the terms appears in both a first article and second article those articles are considered to have sufficiently similar content. Additionally articles are sufficiently similar in content if the longest term sequence e.g. words in a row common among the first and second article exceeds some threshold. The first hyperlink is then updated to correspond to the identification tag already assigned to the second article. In one example multiple posts referring to the similar content despite having different URLs may create a many to one relationship between an article and posts hyperlinks e.g. having many posts connected to a single article s content . It will be appreciated that in this disclosure the second article is also termed a modified first article if a second article is detected as being sufficiently similar in content and a first article is termed a modified first article if a second article does not contain sufficiently similar content and or a second article containing sufficiently similar content is not found prior to the article being assessed at .

At upon determining a modified first article the modified first article is assessed e.g. according to some criteria as a function of meaning of content surrounding the first hyperlink in view of contemporarily lexicon or generally understood vernacular of the day. That is the meaning of the words and language surrounding the hyperlink at the time they are used e.g. fifteenth century old English is very different than modern contemporary English . It will be appreciated that the term meaning is used in a broad sense herein to describe or comprise among other things a level of context that a term connotes in present language and or a definition of a term e.g. the assessment may include but does not require a cognitive step . In one example an emotional charge of the modified first article is assessed. To assess an article a number of terms e.g. 30 in the post before and or after the first hyperlink s placeholder are extracted and processed by an annotator for example to provide context for assessing the article. A Maximum Entropy classifier e.g. or any other type of annotator for example may be trained to learn which terms signify more emotional charge. The classifier may for example produce binary output e.g. 0 for non emotional and 1 for emotional and a confidence score corresponding to the terms assessed. Once the terms are given an assessment the modified first article is assessed as a function of the terms assessment. For example if the terms are assessed as being extremely emotionally charged the discussion of the article in the post will be assessed as being extremely emotionally charged. If multiple hyperlinks point to the same modified first article the article s assessment is an aggregate of the terms assessment from multiple posts. For example if an article had a score of 4 based on the assessment of terms from one post and another post is created corresponding to that article and is given a score of 2 the article s score may be reduced for 3 for example. In one example aggregate scores are stored for a number of different time spans e.g. 1 3 7 14 days to ensure that changes over time are reflected in the classification and categories to improve performance. If a previous post is sufficiently similar in content and or points to the same URL the previous post will not be reevaluated again e.g. only the article and the new post will be evaluated .

At an assessment of the modified first article the modified first article and the post comprising the first hyperlink that pointed to the first article are presented. It will be appreciated that multiple posts may be presented where multiple hyperlinks point to the modified first article. A web service for example may provide methods for retrieving stored information e.g. the most linked to articles the most linked to articles that contain a given term etc. that is presented to a user. The web service may also store particular information that is commonly requested but does not change frequently for example to prevent excessive loads on a storage component. The information may be presented according to some predetermined criteria and the user may alter the information presented e.g. by inputting a term selecting a different category etc. . In one example the title of an article may be displayed more prominently with the post comprising the first hyperlink that pointed to the first article represented by a number in an indicator box and the assessment represented by a glow surrounding the indicator box. Additionally where multiple hyperlinks point to the modified first article the multiple posts are represented by a number in an indicator box e.g. a 5 if five blog posts contain a hyperlink to the modified first article for example. The user may select the title of an article for example and the article will be presented. Additionally the user may focus on the number in the indicator box and the titles of the post s related to that article will be presented along with the assessment of the post s . The user may select the title of the post for example and the post may be displayed. It will also be appreciated that multiple categories related to the same article may be displayed concurrently. Additionally the categories displayed are a function of some predetermined criteria and may be altered by user input for example. For example if an article is linked to by politically liberal blogs but also by politically conservative blogs the blog posts related to both categories may be displayed.

The acquisition component acquires posts from social media e.g. a weblog usenet microblogs message board etc. . The posts acquired may be limited by specifying e.g. on a whitelist which social media to acquire posts from. Additionally the post acquired may be limited to those comprising a hyperlink to a particular site or sites e.g. specified on a whitelist that commonly contain articles related to a particular topic or category e.g. of blogs . In one example posts are acquired if they are on a politically liberal blog and comprise a hyperlink to a news site. The acquisition component may for example use syndicated feed crawlers to extract posts from social media. If the feed crawler extracts a portion of the post an intelligent scraping mechanism which might parse the structure of the permalink may extract the complete content of the post. Once the post is extracted the acquisition component extracts hyperlinks in the post replaces the hyperlinks with placeholders e.g. numbered URL markers and removes HTML tags. The post e.g. the title permalink URL of the post a timestamp related to when the post was posted body of the post including placeholders etc. is stored in the posts storage component . Extracted hyperlinks are classified as pointing to other social media or a site containing an article. After hyperlinks are classified the hyperlinks pointing to other social media are stored in the links to other social media storage component and hyperlinks pointing to a site are sent to the article scraper queue . Additionally the posts queue e.g. an in memory queue may be utilized to store acquired posts where the acquisition component is unable to extract information rapidly enough due to burst in traffic.

A first hyperlink sent to the article scraper queue is forwarded to the article scraper component . The article scraper component determines if an article has already been retrieved by comparing the first hyperlink with URLs corresponding to articles in the articles storage component . If the first hyperlink matches a URL corresponding to an article in the articles storage component the first hyperlink is assigned an identification tag corresponding to the article with the URL matching the first hyperlink. If the first hyperlink does not match a URL corresponding to an article in the article storage component a first article is retrieved from the site pointed to by the first hyperlink. In one example the full text e.g. the article navigation headers copyrights etc. of an HTML page pointed to by the first hyperlink may be extracted and segmented e.g. using a Hidden Markov Model based text segmentation algorithm or other algorithms based on pattern recognition in a page s HTML markup . If the full text is extracted the texts of multiple pages from a single site are compared for terms that appear frequently e.g. in more than 50 pages . To avoid terms that may appear frequently regardless of whether they correspond to the article or other portions of the full text a minimum number of terms e.g. 10 terms may be grouped before being compared. Terms that appear frequently across pages may be separated from the remaining portion of the text for example and stored e.g. in main memory to expedite the removal of frequent terms from future full text pages extracted from the same site. In one example frequent terms may be stored for a period of time and then discarded to ensure that changes in the site s copyright text for example are detected.

Once the first article is retrieved by the article scraper component the article is assigned an identification tag and the first hyperlink is updated with the identification tag. The article is sent to the article storage component and the identification tag is sent to the assessment queue .

The de duplication component receives the first article from the article storage component and compares the first article with other articles in the article storage component . If a threshold of terms e.g. 85 of the terms in first article appears in a second article already in the article storage component and or the largest sequence of terms e.g. words in a row in common among two articles exceeds some threshold the de duplication component determines that the first article and second article are sufficiently similar in content e.g. a single article that was syndicated to many sites which modified the article slightly and reposted it under a different URL . If the first article and second article are duplicates the de duplication component updates the first hyperlink with the identification tag assigned to the second article and the identification tag corresponding to the second article is placed in the assessment queue .

The assessment component receives the identification tag e.g. of the first article or the second article if the de duplication component determines the first article is a duplicate from the assessment queue and assesses it according to some predetermined criteria e.g. emotional charge objectiveness etc as a function of content surrounding the hyperlink that points to the article. The assessment component retrieves the post comprising the first hyperlink e.g. and updates with the identification tag . It will be appreciated that links to other social media may also be retrieved and used in the assessment process. Once the assessment component has retrieved the post comprising the first hyperlink the article is assessed with a function mapping the words in the context surrounding the hyperlink to a predicted emotional charge. Stated another way the article is assessed as a function of meaning of content surrounding the first hyperlink in view of contemporary lexicon or generally understood vernacular of the day. That is the meaning of the words and or language surrounding the hyperlink at the time they are used e.g. fifteenth century old English is very different than modern contemporary English . It will be appreciated that the term meaning is used in a broad sense herein to describe or comprise among other things a level of context that a term connotes in present language and or a definition of a term e.g. the assessment may include but does not require a cognitive step . For example vulgar language in a post may show a higher emotional charge than more neutral language. In one example the assessment component extracts a particular number of terms e.g. 30 before and after the placeholder for the first hyperlink and assesses the article based upon the terms extracted. In one example the assessment component may be a Maximum Entropy classifier which produces binary output and a confidence score. However some other assessment component may be used and does not have to produce binary output and or a confidence score. By assessing the terms surrounding the first hyperlink the post as it relates to the article and the article is assessed. Where an article is previously assessed e.g. as a result of another post comprising a hyperlink to the article the score of the primary article is aggregated as a function of the new post. Any prior posts related to the article are not reevaluated. In one example aggregate statistics take into account both the binary output and the confidence score and normalize the classification based on the number of posts comprising hyperlinks that point to articles that are sufficiently similar in content. Aggregate scores may be computed and stored for a number of different time spans e.g. 1 3 7 14 days to ensure that changes over time are reflected in the classification and categories to improve performance for example. The assessment of the post and article are stored in an assessment storage component . It will also be appreciated that article scraper component and the de duplication component may act independently from one another. If the two components act independently and de duplication component determines that one article is a duplicate of another the de duplication component retrieves that assessment of the first article from the assessment storage component aggregates the assessment of the second article by combining the assessments of the contexts around the links leading to both the first and the second article removes the first article s assessment from the assessment storage component and stores the new aggregate assessment of the second article for each of the supported time spans. The duplicate articles are therefore mapped to the primary article and all further aggregate assessments are computed and stored for that article.

The service component allows information stored in the posts storage component links to other social media storage component article storage component and the assessment storage component to be retrieved. For example the service component might expose methods for retrieving the most linked to articles the most linked to articles that comprise a given keyword or posts links for a given article from the storage components and or . Additionally the service component may store information that is commonly requested but does not change frequently for example to prevent excessive load on the storage components and or .

The user interface presents a user with information retrieved through the service component . The information presented is a function of some predetermined criteria and or a function of some user input. A user may enter a keyword and articles containing or related to that keyword are displayed for example. In one example the title of the article the assessment and an indicator box representing the number of posts comprising hyperlinks to the article are displayed. If the user desires to read an article the user may select the title of the article and the article is displayed for example. Additionally the user may focus on the indicator box and the titles of posts that comprise hyperlinks to the article e.g. and the assessment of posts are presented. Where the title of a post is displayed the user may select the title and the corresponding post is displayed. It will be appreciated that where one or more articles are unable to be presented e.g. because of display limitations the articles presented may have a higher figure of merit relative to other articles. Additionally the user may alter an article s figure of merit e.g. by selecting a different category typing in a keyword etc. . It will also be appreciated that the assessment may be represented by small squares glowing bars or some other visualization. In one example the classification used is emotional charge e.g. the more emotionally charged an article is the more the indicator box will glow . Furthermore multiple categories related to the same article may be displayed concurrently. For example if an article is linked to by both politically liberal blogs and politically conservative blogs the blog posts in both categories may be displayed.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary methods and of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

