---

title: Supporting a multicast session within a wireless communications network
abstract: Methods of supporting a multicast session within a wireless communications network are provided. An access terminal adjusts a monitoring rate of a downlink control channel either (i) after transmitting a multicast registration message in a sector that is not supporting a given multicast session or (ii) after receiving an announce message announcing the given multicast session. An access network anticipates the monitoring rate adjustment, and sends a message advertising the given multicast session (e.g., a broadcast overhead message (BOM)) based on the adjusted monitoring rate. Further, the announce message sent by the access network can be sent on the downlink control channel, and can be sent based on expected paging cycles, or monitoring rates, of the downlink control channel at one or more access terminals within the network prior to the monitoring rate adjustment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08630219&OS=08630219&RS=08630219
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08630219
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080922
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 829 entitled METHODS OF SUPPORTING A MULTICAST SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Sep. 24 2007 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to supporting a multicast session within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of supporting a multicast session within a wireless communications network are provided. An access terminal adjusts a monitoring rate of a downlink control channel either i after transmitting a multicast registration message in a sector that is not supporting a given multicast session or ii after receiving an announce message announcing the given multicast session. An access network anticipates the monitoring rate adjustment and sends a message advertising the given multicast session e.g. a broadcast overhead message BOM based on the adjusted monitoring rate. Further the announce message sent by the access network can be sent on the downlink control channel and can be sent based on expected paging cycles or monitoring rates of the downlink control channel at one or more access terminals within the network prior to the monitoring rate adjustment.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In an example the announce message sent in may be bundled with an access control message ACM with the ACM providing feedback protocols for ATs. In other words the ACM determines a manner in which ATs can respond to the announce message. For a further discussion of ACMs and feedback scheduling protocols see U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 796 entitled METHODS OF RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM assigned by the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further the announce message sent in can be packaged within a data over signaling DOS message that is sent over a downlink control channel. For a further discussion of packaging announce messages into a DOS message for transmission over the downlink control channel see U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 833 entitled MULTICAST MESSAGING WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned by the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Returning to of each of ATs A . . . E can have a different paging cycle of the downlink control cycle for a number of reasons such as a paging delay requirement battery length criteria etc. The paging cycle of the downlink control channel is the time period or interval at which a given AT checks or monitors the downlink control channel. For example commonly used paging cycles for monitoring downlink control channels within conventional multicast sessions include 426 milliseconds ms 213 ms 106.7 ms etc. Thus in to ensure that as many ATs receive the announce message as possible the RAN waits for a conservative control channel capsule on the downlink control channel e.g. the least common multiplier among possible paging cycles used at the ATs . For example if the RAN determines that ATs are configured to use paging cycles of 106.7 ms 213 ms and 426 ms then the least common multiplier LCM is 426 ms i.e. 4 106.7 2 213 and 1 426 . Accordingly in an example the control channel capsule s for the announce message can be selected in order to maximize the number of ATs that receive the announce message. In another example a paging cycle can be biased e.g. towards 106.67 or 213 ms depending on the relative percentage of ATs operating at each paging cycle as long as it is guaranteed that the AT with the largest paging cycle gets the Announce message.

Below the process of is described as performed at sector within the RAN . However it will be appreciated that the process of may concurrently be performed at other sectors not shown within the RAN .

In assume each of ATs A . . . E responds to the announce message by sending an announce ACK message on the reverse link access channel to the base station of the RAN . 1 EV DO standards provide the BCMCSFlowRegistration message for AT registration to multicast groups. BCMCSFlowRegistration messages include a listing of one or more BCMCS flows that a given AT is requesting to monitor. For example if the announce message in announces a PTT call associated with BCMCS Flow FLOW  then the BCMCSFlowRegistration messages sent in response to the announce message include FLOW . BCMCSFlowRegistration messages may be sent to the RAN at different times during a multicast or PTT session and not merely in response to an announce message.

In assume each announce ACK message is further bundled with a BCMCSFlowRegistration message within a single access probe to register for the BCMCS flow associated with the announce message. In contrast conventionally announce ACKs and BCMCSFlowRegistration messages sent in response to announce messages are not necessarily bundled together and are rather typically sent independently on different access probes. For a further discussion of how announce ACK messages and BCMCSFlowRegistration messages can be bundled together see U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 974 831 entitled Methods of Managing Acknowledgement Transmissions form Multicast Groups Members of A Multicast Group Within a Wireless Communications Network filed Sep. 24 2007 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In each AT sending the bundled announce ACK message and BCMCSFlowRegistration message in sets its paging cycle of the downlink control channel to a given paging cycle. For example the given paging cycle can be an aggressive or relatively short paging cycle such that each AT monitors e.g. wakes up and reads the downlink control channel at a higher rate. In another example the given paging cycle can correspond to a shortest paging cycle that is currently used among ATs A . . . E e.g. 106.7 ms . It will be appreciated that because one or more of ATs A . . . E may already be paging or monitoring the downlink control channel at the more aggressive rate does not necessarily imply that the paging cycle of each respective AT increases but rather that the paging cycle of each AT that has sent a bundled announce ACK message BCMCSFlowRegistration message is set to the same period with that period being relatively aggressive or short such that the RAN need not wait for a for a reserved downlink control channel capsule on which to send a subsequent broadcast overhead message BOM .

The BOM is a message sent by the RAN on the downlink control channel that identifies one or more multicast sessions being carried by the RAN and also includes information e.g. an interlace multiplex IM pair regarding how an access terminal can tune to a downlink broadcast channel BCH carrying the multicast messages. Conventionally BOMs are sent by the RAN at reserved slots of control channel capsules of the downlink control channel such as a synchronous control channel capsule. However as will be discussed below in greater detail because ATs A . . . E set their paging cycles more aggressively in the RAN need not wait for the reserved BOM slot but rather can send the BOM sooner at least in some instances as compared to the conventional art.

Accordingly in the RAN receives the bundled announce ACK messages and BCMCSFlowRegistration messages from ATs A . . . E and sends the BOM on a downlink control channel capsule of the downlink control capsule based on the paging cycle set at each of the respective ATs in . In an example the RAN and each of ATs A . . . E can be pre configured such that the aggressive paging cycle responsive to the announce message is known at each respective communication entity. Accordingly ATs A . . . E need not convey their respective paging cycle change to the RAN because the RAN can assume the change has been made based on the pre configuration. Thus because the RAN knows the paging cycle of each AT that is awaiting the BOM e.g. at least during a given time period subsequent to receipt of the announce message the RAN need not wait for the reserved BOM slot s or control channel capsule s but rather can select the earliest control channel capsule that is expected to be paged by the ATs. It will be appreciated that the earliest control channel capsule that will be paged by the ATs varies based on which paging cycle is actually pre configured at the ATs A . . . E and the RAN . For example the earliest control channel capsule can be a next available asynchronous control channel capsule a next available sub synchronous control channel capsule or can even in some instances be the next available synchronous control channel capsule. Additionally the BOM message containing resource allocation information for the multicast call can be transmitted in subsequent sub synchronous and synchronous paging cycles for purposes of reliability of transmission as well as to allow ATs that have switched from other CDMA channels to decode the BOM message if they missed the first one. ATs that have switched CDMA channels may miss the first BOM message that is transmitted in the CDMA channel in which the multicast call is hosted.

In upon receiving the BOM from the RAN each of ATs A . . . E resets its paging cycle back to the previous level from before . For example the paging cycle need not be maintained at more aggressive levels in order to conserve battery power at the ATs. In another example the triggering event that causes the ATs to reset the paging cycle to pre 415 levels need not be receipt of a first BOM from the RAN but rather can be any triggering event. Examples of such potential triggering events include the end or termination of the multicast session the receipt of one or more additional BOMs subsequent to receipt of the first BOM etc. Also each AT need not use the same triggering event for the paging cycle reset.

After sending the BOM in the RAN can begin transmitting multicast messages which are provided from the application or PTT server within sector to ATs A . . . E . In each of ATs A . . . E that is interested in monitoring the multicast session can tune to the downlink BCH in the manner indicated by the BOM e.g. based on the IM pair indicated for the BCMCSFIowID of the announced PTT session and can monitor the PTT session.

In AT A waits for a BOM interval e.g. an expected period at which the RAN sends periodic BOMs to determine whether AT A s new sector is already carrying the given multicast session. In AT A determines whether any BOMs advertising the BCMCSFIowID for the PTT session are received within the BOM interval. Because it is assumed that the sector that AT A has entered is not supporting the multicast session AT A receives no BOMs during the wait period and the process advances to .

In AT A sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN to request that AT A be registered for the PTT session and that the RAN support the PTT session within AT A s sector. In similar to of AT A sets its paging cycle of the downlink control channel to a given paging cycle with the given paging cycle set relatively aggressively and being known or expected at the RAN . Next similar to of in the RAN transmits the BOM advertising the BCMCSFIowID for the PTT session on a given control channel capsule of the downlink control channel where the given control channel capsule is selected or determined based on the given paging cycle at AT A. Thus the RAN interprets a BCMCSFlowRegistration message being sent in a non supporting sector as an indicator that the AT sending the BCMCSFlowRegistration message will at least temporarily establish an aggressive paging cycle. In another example while not illustrated in if the call is set up in a different CDMA Channel or carrier the BOM message in the other CDMA Channel or carrier can redirect ATs using the same algorithm to the Channel in which the PTT call is carried or hosted. In other words in the non hosting carrier the re direct BOM can be sent earlier and the AT can page the non hosting carrier more aggressively as in embodiments of the invention described herein.

In similar to of upon receiving the BOM from the RAN AT A resets its paging cycle back to the previous level from before . For example the paging cycle need not be maintained at a more aggressive level throughout the PTT session in order to conserve battery power at AT A. In another example the triggering event that causes the ATs to reset the paging cycle to pre 720 levels need not be receipt of a first BOM from the RAN but rather can be any triggering event. Examples of such potential triggering events are provided above with respect to of .

After sending the BOM in the RAN can begin transmitting multicast messages which are provided from the application or PTT server to AT A . In AT A tunes to the downlink BCH in the manner indicated by the BOM e.g. based on the IM pair indicated for the BCMCSFIowID of the announced PTT session and monitors the PTT session.

In view of the above description of the embodiments of it will be appreciated that a delay associated with BOM transmission during the initiation of a PTT session associated with call set up or supporting the PTT session in a new sector can be reduced by setting ATs to the same more aggressive paging cycle.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further aspects of embodiments of the invention can include logical implementations of the functions described herein. Accordingly those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the examples provided herein.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for performing the functions steps sequence of actions and or algorithms disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

