---

title: Mobile advertising syndication
abstract: Apparatus and methods for distributing advertising content to a mobile device. An application is executed on a mobile device containing an advertising opportunity. Advertising content is requested from an advertisement syndication interface. A filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request is identified and used to select and advertisement from a local advertising cache. The selected advertisement is rendered in a composite with rendering of content of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738431&OS=08738431&RS=08738431
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08738431
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081120
---
Consumers worldwide have evinced a desire for continuous ubiquitous access to information communication links and entertainment content. This desire has led to the introduction of mobile devices e.g. cell phones personal media devices PMDs portable gaming systems etc. . . . with increased communication throughput and processing capabilities capable of handling complex data rich interactions with between users and providers. As more people use their mobile devices for data rich applications such as web surfing and viewing mobile television the providers of such services naturally seek methods to derive profit from these activities.

One obvious method is to charge for the various services. However users of such services will only pay a limited amount which may or may not adequately compensate the providers of the services. Compounding the problem a variety of parties are typically involved in the providing of such services. For example there is the provider of the communication path e.g. the cellular network operator the content aggregators e.g. the networks and web site operators and the content providers. As a result providers are looking to advertising to generate a revenue stream.

This is not unexpected as traditional main stream media outlets such as newspaper television and radio have long relied upon advertisements to generate revenue streams. Advertising on mobile devices is estimated by one analyst to become a worldwide 25B market by 2011 as mobile devices proliferate around the world. However much like the Internet advertising on mobile devices present challenges when compared to traditional broadcast media. For example when pushing advertisements especially large format rich advertisements consideration must be given to the limited throughput associated with wireless networks and the limited power available to mobile devices.

The following presents a simplified summary to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described features in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with an advertising syndication method and apparatus that leverages the reach of a multicast network thereby providing cost efficiencies in delivery of advertising content. In some aspects the value of scheduling delivering targeting and measuring advertising presentations impressions is aggregated in a common service making advertising deployment more convenient for mobile device vendors mobile application developers and providers advertising content providers and wireless communication operators or carriers.

In one aspect a method utilizes syndicated advertising content on a mobile device. An application on a mobile device containing an advertising opportunity. An advertisement syndication interface is called upon to request advertising content. A filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request is determined. An advertisement is selected in accordance with the filtering constraint from a local advertising cache. The selected advertisement is rendered composited with rendering of content of the application.

In another aspect at least one processor utilizing syndicated advertising content on a mobile device. A first module executes an application on a mobile device containing an advertising opportunity. A second module calls upon an advertisement syndication interface to request advertising content. A third module determines a filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request. A fourth module selects an advertisement in accordance with the filtering constraint from a local advertising cache. A fifth module renders the selected advertisement composited with rendering of content of the application.

In an additional aspect a computer program product for utilizing syndicated advertising content on a mobile device by having a computer readable storage medium that provides codes. A first set of instructions causes a computer to execute an application on a mobile device containing an advertising opportunity. A second set of instructions causes the computer to call upon an advertisement syndication interface to request advertising content. A third set of instructions causes the computer to determine a filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request. A fourth set of instructions causes the computer to select an advertisement in accordance with the filtering constraint from a local advertising cache. A fifth set of instructions causes the computer to render the selected advertisement composited with rendering of content of the application.

In another additional aspect an apparatus utilizes syndicated advertising content on a mobile device. Means are provided for executing an application on a mobile device containing an advertising opportunity. Means are provided for calling upon an advertisement syndication interface to request advertising content. Means are provided for determining a filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request. Means are provided for selecting an advertisement in accordance with the filtering constraint from a local advertising cache. Means are provided for rendering the selected advertisement composited with rendering of content of the application.

In a further aspect an apparatus utilizes syndicated advertising content on a mobile device. An application executes on a mobile computing platform of a mobile device and requests request advertising content for an advertising opportunity. A client advertising interface executed on the mobile computing platform responds to the request for advertising content by determining a filtering constraint applicable to the advertising content request and selecting an advertisement in accordance with the filtering constraint from a local cache. A user interface rendering the selected advertisement composited with rendering of content of the application.

In one aspect a method wirelessly syndicates advertising content to a mobile device. Advertising content is tagged with a filtering constraint. The advertising content tagged with the filtering constraint is wirelessly multicast to a client advertising interface executed respectively on a plurality of mobile devices for being locally cached and selectively played in conformance to the tagged filtering constraint in conjunction with an advertising opportunity defined in a mobile application. A usage report is received from the plurality of mobile devices pertaining to advertising usage with the mobile application.

In yet another aspect at least one processor wirelessly syndicates advertising content to mobile device. A first module tags advertising content with a filtering constraint. A second module wirelessly multicasts the advertising content tagged with the filtering constraint to a client advertising interface executed respectively on a plurality of mobile devices for being locally cached and selectively played in conformance to the tagged filtering constraint in conjunction with an advertising opportunity defined in a mobile application. A third module receives a usage report from the plurality of mobile devices pertaining to advertising usage with the mobile application.

In yet an additional aspect a computer program product wirelessly syndicates advertising content to mobile device has a computer readable storage medium containing codes. A first set of instructions causes a computer to tag advertising content with a filtering constraint. A second set of instructions causes the computer to wirelessly multicast the advertising content tagged with the filtering constraint to a client advertising interface executed respectively on a plurality of mobile devices for being locally cached and selectively played in conformance to the tagged filtering constraint in conjunction with an advertising opportunity defined in a mobile application. A third set of instructions causes the computer to receive a usage report from the plurality of mobile devices pertaining to advertising usage with the mobile application.

In yet another additional aspect an apparatus wirelessly syndicates advertising content to mobile device. Means are provided for tagging advertising content with a filtering constraint. Means are provided for wirelessly multicasting the advertising content tagged with the filtering constraint to a client advertising interface executed respectively on a plurality of mobile devices for being locally cached and selectively played in conformance to the tagged filtering constraint in conjunction with an advertising opportunity defined in a mobile application. Means are provided for receiving a usage report from the plurality of mobile devices pertaining to advertising usage with the mobile application.

In yet a further aspect an apparatus wirelessly syndicates advertising content to mobile device. An advertising service component tags advertising content with a filtering constraint. A multicast broadcast transmitter wirelessly multicasts the advertising content tagged with the filtering constraint to a client advertising interface executed respectively on a plurality of mobile devices for being locally cached and selectively played in conformance to the tagged filtering constraint in conjunction with an advertising opportunity defined in a mobile application. A network receiver receives a usage report from the plurality of mobile devices pertaining to usage with the mobile application.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

In a personalized measurable way large format rich advertising content is delivered over a wireless network to a population of mobile devices. Limited data throughput is accommodated by utilizing a multicasting broadcast radio network avoiding the increased communications necessary to unicast to individual mobile devices. Power constraints of the mobile devices are respected by allowing the devices to deliver files over broadcast clip cast advertising content when needed and in particular to select content that satisfies certain filtering constraints such as imposed by the subscriber the advertiser or a mobile application that executes on the mobile device that provides an advertising opportunity. In particular a client ad syndication interface monitors application and advertising usage facilitates the download and selection for rendering of advertising content and reports the usage to a remote network for billing purposes and ad campaign effectiveness metrics. This interface can make advertisements and applications less computing platform and application dependent as well as facilitating ad targeting and an enhanced user experience. The client ad syndication interface syndicates advertisements that is the advertisements are made available for any application or component on a mobile device. This is to be contrasted with each application managing and delivering its own ad inventory rendering the appropriate targeted ad and logging and transmitting usage information back to a database.

In an illustrative aspect advertising syndication pertains to a system that takes a store of advertisements that are offered selectively to one or more devices and more particularly offered selectively to programs and advertising slots executed on the devices. In an exemplary aspect extending a paradigm of syndication long known in print media e.g. newspapers periodicals etc. mobile advertising syndication can provide an association that offers materials to one or more segments of a mobile device population.

It should be appreciated that delivery of large format rich advertising content is an illustrative use and that aspects disclosed herein can be advantageously used in delivering smaller scale content and non advertising content.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing these aspects.

Turning to the Drawings in a mobile advertising syndication framework leverages the efficiencies of a multicast broadcast network in delivery of large format rich advertising content over a multicast over the air OTA downlink channel from a radio access node RAN or a unidirectional broadcaster to a population of mobile devices of a communication system . The mobile devices in one aspect can have a communication module that responds individually via circuit switched CS or packet switched PS uplink channel to the RAN e.g. 2G 3G 4G cellular telephone . Alternatively or in addition the mobile devices can have a communication module that responds via wireless access point AP over an 802.11 uplink channel . Alternatively or in addition the mobile devices can have a persistent or intermittent wired network access as depicted at . In another aspect a communication module can be a dual mode device capable of both types of uplink communication. These responses can provide data as to the effectiveness of an advertising campaign over a network to a mobile advertising central controller . For example portions of the network can comprise a public or private Internet public telephone switched network PSTN .

For convenience and clarity unicast as used herein refers to sending information packets to a single destination. While such transmissions may be picked up by multiple receivers only the addressed receiver digests the data. Physically messages are directed only over those links in a network required to achieve delivery thereby limiting the number of devices on the network that actually receive the messages to a minimum. Unicast allows a single user to personalize receiving data on the fly. Web browsing to a particular streamed media clip is an example of unicasting.

Multicast as used herein refers to transmitting information packets addressed to a range of receivers. Multicast is typically implemented on an otherwise unicast based network using network addressing methods for the delivery of information to a group of destinations simultaneously. Multicast methods strive for efficiency through delivering the messages over each link of the network only once creating copies only when the links to the multiple destinations split typically at network switches and routers. Multicast is often used for streaming media and Internet television applications where the media is streamed to all requesting users in the same time frame. An example is a group selecting to receive streaming video of a live performance or sports contest.

Broadcast as used herein refers to transmitting information which in some but not all instances can be packetized to all units capable of receiving the transmission without distinction. Over the air television and radio are particular examples of broadcast networks. For example everybody tuned to channel receives the same signal at the same time with the transmission time chosen by the broadcaster rather than the user. Broadcast networks are usually physically separate from unicast based networks as generally one to many transmissions of data are not efficient on a unicast based network. Broadcast networks are also generally thought of as being one way communication paths.

To provide more of a user directed unicast or multicast content receiving experience without the corresponding network resource scalability constraints services such as the MediaFLO system provided by QUALCOMM CORPORATION San Diego Calif. provide a one to many content or media broadcast capability. It is to be noted that most digital video broadcasting networks like MediaFLO and DVH H use digital rights management systems to prevent the decoding of the received data absent subscriptions. In some ways this mimics functionality of multicast systems in that only those users electing e.g. paying to receive the content can view the content. In some aspects these services are focused on delivering live performance broadcasts of general appeal that users manually select to view.

Thus illustrative examples of multicast broadcast networks include MediaFLO media distribution system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H and Broadcast and Multicast Services BCMCS . In one aspect the broadcast network can further perform unicast communications such as WiMax cellular telephone etc. Network may be any private or public wireless communications network operating according to any known standard including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and TIA EIA 136.

The population of mobile devices is depicted as various types of user equipment or access terminals e.g. converged handheld computer smart phone portable media player not shown wireless capable handheld game console not shown personal digital assistant and a laptop etc. .

The mobile advertising central controller coordinates advertisement ad definition ingestion delivery serving and reporting to achieve end to end ad syndication depicted as being performed by an ad ingest module campaign management module delivery scheduling module and an ad tracking analytics module . Advertising content originates as creative files and advertising objectives of an advertiser which can be an ad agency. An ad team knowledgeable about the population of mobile devices can convert the creative files and advertising objectives into advertising content suitable for distribution. To advance the penetration and effectiveness of ad syndication application developers or providers can become involved in creating advertising opportunities in their deployed applications depicted as an application stored in memory of the mobile device . Defining such opportunities can be in return for usage data on the performance of their application or for remuneration for participation in the ad syndication depicted as being credited by a billing service . The ad team provides the ad content to a multicast service console that can schedule the ad content on the multicast broadcast network for distribution.

The mobile device advantageously has a computing platform manages constraints on power and storage as well as intermittent download communication. In particular a client ad syndication system executes on the computing platform to implement mobile ad syndication autonomously with intermittent communications and in a targeted fashion. The computer platform comprises a processor and the memory communicating over a data bus . Processor controls the operation of the mobile device according to an operating system O S applications or programs or modules stored in memory . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors state machines as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other data processing device such as ASIC can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications and or programs and or modules such as client ad syndication API stored in memory .

Memory represents all of the memory associated with mobile device and may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions and data utilized in the operation of mobile device may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory can also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers or for use by the client ad syndication system

In the exemplary aspect an integral graphical user interface GUI with input device depicted as touch screen stylus and an output device depicted as display allows the user to interact with application rendering that presents an opportunity for an integral advertisement presentation reservation . For example an input device can comprise a mechanism such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an output device may include or comprise an audio speaker display a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

The mobile device can advantageously sense or receive geographic location information from a location module depicted as being responsive to global positioning system GPS satellites . It should be noted however that location module may alternately or in addition be responsive to a terrestrial based wireless communication network e.g. a CDMA network where all or some portion of the position determination may be based on communications with base stations and or where location determination calculations are performed in whole or in part by network servers. Alternatively or in addition the location module can comprise an inertial platform that detects changes in location.

The client ad syndication system can advantageously comprise a number of features components modules or options such as managing an ad cache . An ad clip cast module can selectively store advertising content ad received over the multicast downlink channel to the ad cache . These ads can be received with a tag that categorizes the ad provides technical characteristics useful in successfully rendering the ad provides subscriber profile target data or provides campaign metrics such as duration frequency and dates to constrain use impressions . In one aspect the multicast contains sufficient instructions for the mobile device to determine what ads should be stored and when to be played.

Alternatively or in addition the client ad syndication system is capable of making such determinations. For example a targeting module can apply a filtering constraint for those ads that should be stored and used by referencing a filtering constraint provided by user settings . Such settings could be made into the GUI or made via an external interface such as a web portal not shown and communicated to the mobile device . Such settings could include a preference for certain kinds of advertisements e.g. sportswear Brand X movie releases etc. . Such settings could include a preference for advertisements that provide a credit to the subscriber or to a charity for agreeing to receive and present the advertisement. Such settings could include a block to certain categories of advertisements such as blocking objectionable material e.g. alcohol products tobacco products sexually suggestive products etc. .

Alternatively or in addition the targeting module can determine filtering constraints at least in part by inferring subscriber preferences and attitudes such as by accessing a user profile that contains information such as age sex residence ethnicity socioeconomic classification education level etc.

The client ad syndication system can advantageously monitor execution of applications such as by an application usage tracking module . In addition to tracking usage such monitoring can further be provided sufficient status tracking via the client ad syndication interface to determine particular portions of the application being used. Thereby ad tracking module can monitor advertising impressions for storing in use log but also correlate impressions with particular applications to provide an incentive to application providers .

In an exemplary mobile communication device is depicted as having a graphical user interface GUI that is rendering a game application that has several advertising opportunities that can be dynamically supported by the client ad syndication API . For example the application can reserve a bordering advertising banner space . As another example the application can provide branding opportunities such as requesting a car logo or changing to a graphical representation of product type based on available advertising revenue for that type of product. As a further example transient and integral advertising opportunities can be provided that enhance the user experience and realism as well as making the advertising more eye catching. For instance a current visible ad sign is depicted for previously requested ad content. The application can be requesting another ad for an upcoming ad sign that will become visible within a short period e.g. 5 seconds .

The mobile communication device further illustrates user interacting with the application and perhaps the advertisements as well via mobile phone user interface including dial tone multiple frequency DTMF keypad cursor buttons and select button and left center and right programmable menu buttons .

In a sequence of screen shots depicts illustrative interactions between the client ad syndication system and mobile applications depicted as a game application an audio video player e.g. television show digital movie music video etc. a mobile desktop screen and a wireless application protocol WAP browser each providing various kinds of advertising opportunities. Usage of each application can be tracked relative to total use time particular times of day or particular portions of the application that are viewed or interacted with.

For instance the game application can begin with a welcome screen having an advertiser opportunity and that is monitored as being viewed only briefly as depicted at . The game application proceeds to a later section as depicted at as discussed above in that has a large duration of exposure as depicted at . The game application can then proceed to another section as depicted at having a reduced but significant period of usage as depicted at . Finally the game application has another segment depicted at of very short duration e.g. game difficulty prevents reaching frequently . Thus the usage data can provide useful information to the advertiser as well as the application provider.

The audio video player is depicted as having different kinds of advertising opportunities such as being able to insert product promotion ads and a sponsor banner . Usage of this application can be monitored as depicted at .

The mobile desktop screen that draws user viewing with updated news items can provide yet other types of advertising options such as adding a logo to a scrolling data window and desktop ad wallpaper . Again the usage can be monitored as depicted at .

The WAP browser can provide network provided content such as headlines and links and supporting text. Burdens on the network are mitigated by utilizing cached ads that can be targeted based on locally cached advertising content. The usage of this application can be monitored as depicted at .

With reference to a methodology is depicted for mobile advertising syndication that leverages the efficiencies of multicasting over a communication network with participation by an advertiser an ad team billing service application developer multicast service console multicast broadcast system mobile device having a client ad syndication API and an ad cache .

The methodology is depicted as beginning with an ad ingestion and definition portion for preparing ad content for multicasting. As depicted at the advertiser creates creative content e.g. audio video images etc. as well as defining campaign business objectives perhaps in contractual terms. This ad content and campaign objectives are transmitted to the ad team for ad ingestion as depicted at . The ad team responds by packaging the ad content into a format suitable for mobile applications and mobile devices as well as integrating the campaign and targeted subscriber profile attributes by tagging or similar associations block . Prioritization and coverage can be made with reference to subscriber database information to estimate an approach reach for the ad content. The advertising clip with associated characteristics campaign profile tag is submitted to the multicast service console block .

The illustrative cooperation among various entities is simplified for clarity. It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that the illustrative ad team can comprise human interactions automated reformatting and integration or a combination thereof. In addition the depicted functions can be performed by fewer entities or distributed among more entities.

At some point prior the mobile device is prepared for ad syndication. For example the user and device preferences and settings can be established or selected as depicted at block which can be determined by the mobile device or sent to the mobile device . The profile for the user can also be established as depicted at block such as through demographic categorization or detected parameters e.g. current or residential location . The demographic information can be explicitly input by a user retrieved from a remote source inferred from objective data or calculated estimated based upon available data. In addition the application developer has created mobile applications that have inherent opportunities for advertising block that have been deployed to the mobile device as depicted at . Deployment can be installation at the original equipment manufacturer OEM local download from storage media such as a CDROM activated by installing a digital key or wirelessly transmitted.

The methodology continues with a delivery portion . The multicast service console schedules multicast clip casting block and stores the tagged ad clips in the multicast broadcast system block . At a convenient time taking advantage of unused broadcast allocation the multicast broadcast system wirelessly multicasts the tagged ad clips to the population of mobile devices block . The client ad syndication API can selectively receive ads block . To save power the API ignore clip casting when sufficient current ads are in local cache or when current offerings are not appropriate for the mobile device based on one or more filtering constraints. Those received can then be stored as depicted at in the ad cache .

With the mobile device readied the methodology continues with an advertisement serving portion when the mobile application requests an ad block . The mobile application can make this request from the API via a get ad request depicted at . The API targets an appropriate ad in block based on one or more filtering constraints and retrieves the selected ad from ad cache for use as depicted in block .

The methodology advantageously concludes by reporting usage particularly advertising usage in a reporting portion . The API logs application usage and advertisement impressions block . When an appropriate uplink communication channel is available or at a convenient or allocated time the mobile device reports the device usage to the multicast service or another radio access technology block . In addition the usage information can be fed back to the client side targeting system to infer demographic information as well as define a behavioral profile for additional targeting block . The multicast service console or another responsible entity can derive campaign statistics block . Reporting of advertising activity which can be de personalized for subscriber privacy is transmitted to other entities illustrated at that can prompt credits to participants in the delivery and invoicing to the advertiser for confirmed satisfaction of campaign objectives block .

With reference to an advertisement tagging methodology advantageously associates advertising content with attributes such as an electronic advertising tags that specifies or enables selective filtering by the mobile device . In particular advertising content originates with inherent and differing attributes as created by an advertiser . These varying attributes are depicted as a sportswear ad a car ad a food ad a travel ad and a multimedia service . A standardized characteristics tag portion of the advertising tag can provide metadata for filtering such as a plurality of categorizations depicted as Category B e.g. sports Category K e.g. clothes media type e.g. TIF or JPEG image MP4 video MP3 audio clip etc. image resolution e.g. 250 150 pixels 16 bit color length e.g. 3 second repeating animation 30 second duration etc. and identifier for tracking and reporting usage of the advertising content . It should be appreciated that conforming the advertising tag to certain protocols for multicasting or mobile device consumption can include participation by an ad team or a multicast service console as well as the advertiser . Certain standardizations can be agreed upon that can obviate having to characterize the advertising content and these aspects are merely illustrative.

Alternatively or in addition the advertising tagging methodology can further include a campaign tag portion to expresses measurable goals that can be implemented tracked and reported to satisfy an advertising campaign. Such metrics are illustrated by a geographic reach field e.g. U.S. wide North America Northeastern U.S. states Kansas City multicast broadcasters proximate to advertiser locations etc. . The campaign can specify run dates e.g. start and end dates field . A total impression field can give an indication of how often and how wide spread the multicasting should be to achieve a desired number of presentations impressions of the ad . The campaign tag portion can include a royalty field that enables royalty optimization by the multicaster or the mobile device . For example the royalty information can provide detailed insights such as royalties for presentation in a particular kind of application or to a certain category of subscriber. Thus optimizations can enable selections of ads to maximize royalties. Another campaign tag portion is illustrated as being a priority field that directs the multicaster service or the mobile device as to what order to multicast or store and present respectively. Maximum impressions per person field can indicate to the mobile device how many times to show the advertisement or a maximum number of times to show the advertisement.

Alternatively or in addition the advertising tagging methodology can include a target subscriber tag portion that indicates to the multicast service what subsets of mobile devices should be multicasted or indicates to the mobile device what ads should be stored and presented to a subscribing user . For instance a geographic field specifies certain locations that should receive the ad which can be a residential work or current location of the subscribing user . A carrier operator field can target the ad to certain mobile devices that subscribe to a particular premium service or to a certain communication carrier. An age field specifies one or more age ranges. A time of day field can specify a time of day day of the week etc. in which the ad should be presented. For example a restaurant may want their ad to run during their hours of operation. A sex field can specify male or female. A demographic field can specify other categories such as socioeconomic group education level political party religion association membership veteran status etc. Fields can also specify desired behavioral criteria such as daily viewing time daily text message volume daily news article reading volume frequency volume of stock price check etc.

The subscribing user can input blocked ads preferred ads that keys in on the characteristics tag portion such as I do not want to see alcohol or tobacco ads or I do want to see such ads. The subscribing user can input certain personal information or enable access and reporting of certain demographic data to satisfy the target tag portion . The mobile device can also create usage logs associated with the advertising content to provide closed loop control of multicast ad syndication. For instance an ad field can identify which ad was presented. An application field can specify how the ad was presented. A carrier field can identify certain links in the ad syndication for enabling crediting of participation in the ad syndication. A duration field can communicate how long the subscribing user was exposed to the ad . This duration can be predicated on certain user inputs to the mobile device that gives a high confidence of being actively viewing hearing feeling the output of the advertisement content . A subscriber field can identify the subscriber user . At some point in the reporting chain the identification can be de personalized to protect user privacy. A user interaction field can indicate whether the subscribing user responded to the ad such as selecting an icon associated with the ad content called a telephone number displayed in the ad etc. A times field can detail durations of each impression or detail the time of day and date of the impressions. The usage log can also indicate a location of where viewed and other information not shown .

In a methodology for client ad syndication can leverage the insights into the advertising content provided by the tagging as well as flexibly responding to multicast communication. In block user preferences regarding advertisements are received. In block filtering constraints for ad storing and presentation are determined by the mobile device by refereeing characteristics campaign or targeting tags associated with received advertising content. In block a user profile associated with the mobile device can be updated based on behavioral actions demographic inputs or user preferences. In block an ad syndication client API can scan installed mobile applications to ascertain needs that the mobile device can have for syndicated ads and thus download appropriate content in preparation. For example certain types of ads can be appropriate for a WAP browser and others can be appropriate for game applications. In block maintenance of ad cache is performed such as identifying downloaded ads that have expired or have met their campaign objectives. In block multicast communications can be monitored to identify an appropriate ad for reception and storage such as waking up to retrieve more ads when ad cache has room available. Use of priority data or royalty data or user preference data etc. can provide guidance for replacing unexpired ads in ad cache with ads with a higher value to the advertiser ad syndicator or subscribing user. In block the client ad syndication API can provide ad services even when downlink or uplink communication is unavailable. In block the API can advantageously monitor mobile application usage for characterizing the user and for network ad syndicators to identify ad opportunities that could be utilized in the future. Ads presented are logged in conjunction with the circumstances of the impression.

In block a determination is made as to whether a received ad is appropriate for the subscriber. If so the ad is stored in ad cache in block . In block when an ad is requested by a mobile application then in block the API filters cached ad possibilities based on some combination of the application ad requirements user preferences campaign constraints and profile constraints. In block in some aspects insights into royalty potential for certain cached ads can be optimized. In block the selected advertisement is rendered for presentation on the mobile device GUI. In block a determination is made as to whether an uplink is available to a network entity that collects metrics on accomplishment of ad syndication. If so a report on ad usage and advantageously statistical information on portions of mobile applications used are relayed in block .

In an illustrative GetAd API key function can be used for a mobile application to communicate its suggestions for ad content. In an exemplary depiction a media type argument can specify the type of ad requested such as graphic rich media video text etc. A size argument can specify a dimensional size of the requested ad. A location argument can report a current geographic location of the mobile device for example if the ad should correspond to current location or if the API needs to know what the current location is. A demographic argument specifies one or more desired demographic profile aspects of the subscriber to view the ad. A time argument specifies a current time if unavailable to the API for satisfying time of day selection and logging. A duration argument can specify a duration for the ad e.g. an animation of no more than 5 seconds duration a video clip of no more than 30 seconds duration etc. . A rendering capabilities argument can specify limitations of the mobile application or the mobile device as a filtering constraint e.g. frame rate color depth etc. . An urgency argument can predict how many seconds in the future that the ad will be needed. A callback argument can specify a function that should be called when the ad is ready.

In an illustrative Write Log Event API key function can be used to write an ad view event to a usage tracking database. An Application ID argument can identify the calling application. A name value pair x argument can be a secure field understood by the logging application client ad syndication API for user privacy and can contain additional information regarding the presentation.

What has been described above includes examples of the various aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the various aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the subject specification intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects. In this regard it will also be recognized that the various aspects include a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. To the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter have been described with reference to several flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described herein. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed herein are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Furthermore the one or more versions may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed aspects. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the disclosed aspects.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

