---

title: Coating system for cement composite articles
abstract: A coated article including a cement fiberboard substrate and a coating system applied to the substrate, wherein the coating system comprises (i) at least one acid-functional alkali-soluble polymer having a backbone substantially free of linear or branched aliphatic alkyl repeating units having more than 3 backbone carbon carbons, (ii) at least one water-soluble silicate salt and (iii) water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08057893&OS=08057893&RS=08057893
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 08057893
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080731
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2007 002802 filed on Jan. 31 2007 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 764 044 filed Jan. 31 2006 and 60 802 185 filed May 19 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Cement composite articles are becoming more and more common for use in building materials. Many of these articles are prepared from inexpensive materials such as cement wood cellulose fibers natural glass fibers and polymers. These articles usually are prepared in the form of cement fiberboard substrates such as siding panels and boards. The substrate or articles can be made using methods such as extrusion or using a Hatschek machine.

In northern climates damage from repeated freezing and thawing of water absorbed into the cement fiberboard substrate represents a significant problem. Continued exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles UV exposure and atmospheric carbon dioxide can cause physical and chemical changes in articles made from cement fiberboard compositions over time. Coating systems or coating compositions can prevent exposure to the elements such as UV light carbon dioxide and water or can help reduce the damage that can occur due to exposure to these elements. Several such systems are available for protecting cement fiberboard articles. However there is a need for coating systems and coating compositions that provide a superior seal have the ability to cure rapidly or can provide improved results when an article coated with the composition is submitted to wet adhesion testing and multiple freeze thaw cycles.

The present invention provides in one aspect a coated article including a cement fiberboard substrate and a coating system applied to the substrate wherein the coating system comprises i at least one acid functional alkali soluble polymer having a backbone substantially free of linear or branched aliphatic alkyl repeating units having more than 3 backbone carbon carbons ii at least one water soluble silicate salt and iii water. The disclosed coating system includes one or more coating compositions that may be applied in one or more layers or can be mixed with another composition e.g. on the substrate to form a coating composition.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises applying the above described coating system to the above described cement fiberboard substrate and drying the coated article.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawing and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.

An alkali soluble polymer means a polymer having sufficient acid functionality to render the polymer soluble or dispersible in water when mixed with a base.

A latex polymer means a dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles in water containing one or more secondary dispersing or emulsifying agents e.g. a surfactant alkali soluble polymer or mixtures thereof whose presence is required to form the dispersion or emulsion. The secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent is typically separate from the polymer after polymer formation. In some embodiments a reactive dispersing or emulsifying agent may become part of the polymer particles as they are formed.

A water dispersible polymer means a polymer which is capable of being combined by itself with water without requiring the use of a secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent to obtain an aqueous dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles having at least a one month shelf stability at normal storage temperatures.

A polymer backbone means elements within a main polymer chain excluding pendent groups. For example a styrenic polymer contains polymerized vinyl groups which form elements containing two carbon atoms per repeating unit in the backbone with pendant aromatic ring groups.

The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

The term comprises and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus for example a composition comprising a wax compound means that the composition includes one or more wax compounds.

The terms acrylate esters and methacrylate esters refer to esters of acrylic acid and esters of methacrylic acid respectively. They may be referred to as meth acrylates or meth acrylate esters.

The term olefinic compound refers to any monomer oligomer or polymer containing reactive ethylenic unsaturation such as vinyls meth acrylates vinyl ethers allyl ethers vinyl esters unsaturated oils including mono di and triglycerides unsaturated fatty acids and the like. The term olefinic group refers to the reactive ethylenic unsaturated functional group in an olefinic compound.

The terms preferred and preferably refer to embodiments that may afford certain benefits under certain circumstances. However other embodiments may also be preferred under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the invention.

The disclosed articles may be coated on one or more surfaces with the disclosed coating system. The coating system includes i at least one acid functional alkali soluble polymer having a backbone substantially free of linear or branched aliphatic alkyl repeating units having more than 3 backbone carbon carbons ii at least one water soluble silicate salt and iii water. Water soluble silicate salts are relatively alkaline and can promote premature gelation settling or flocculation of a latex polymer. This may be compensated for by increasing the amount of surfactant or emulsifier in the latex. However when applied to a cement fiberboard substrate the resulting modified latex may be undesirably prone to foaming or may exhibit undue water sensitivity. The disclosed acid functional alkali soluble polymers can form emulsions or dispersions having good storage stability despite the presence of water soluble silicate salts and the water soluble silicate salts can actually assist in stabilizing the acid functional alkali soluble polymer in water. In this context storage stability may be evaluated by heating the composition to about 50 C. for two weeks and more preferably one month to determine whether the composition does not undesirably settle flocculate or gel.

The disclosed compositions may contain additional ingredients including various latex polymers water dispersible polymers olefinic compounds and epoxy resins as discussed in more detail below. The disclosed acid functional alkali soluble polymer can also be combined with latex forming monomers and water and may serve as a support or colloidal stabilizer during the formation of latex polymer particles from such monomers as discussed in more detail below.

Referring to a coated article of the present invention is shown in schematic cross sectional view. Article includes a cement fiberboard substrate . Substrate typically is quite heavy and may for example have a density of about 1 to about 1.6 g cmor more. The first major surface of substrate may be embossed with small peaks or ridges and valleys e.g. so as to resemble roughsawn wood. Major surface may have a variety of other surface configurations and may resemble a variety of building materials other than roughsawn wood. Layer or layers of the disclosed coating system lie atop and partially penetrate surface and desirably are applied to article at the location where article is manufactured. Layers help to protect substrate against one or more of exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles UV exposure or atmospheric carbon dioxide. Layers also may provide a firmly adhered base layer upon which one or more firmly adhered layers of final topcoat may be formed. Final topcoat desirably is both decorative and weather resistant and may be applied to article at the location where article is manufactured or after article has been attached to a building or other surface.

A variety of cement fiberboard substrates may be employed in the disclosed articles. The disclosed substrates typically include cement and a filler. Exemplary fillers include wood fiberglass polymers or mixtures thereof. The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion the Hatschek method or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. patent application No. 2005 0208285 A1 corresponds to International Patent Application No. WO 2005 071179 A1 Australian Patent Application No. 2005100347 International Patent Application No. WO 01 68547 A1 International Patent Application No. WO 98 45222 A1 U.S. patent application No. 2006 0288909 A1 and Australian Patent Application No. 198060655 A1. Non limiting examples of such substrates include siding products boards and the like for uses including fencing roofing flooring wall boards shower boards lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas. One or both major surfaces of the substrate may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron or submicron scale cross sectional dimensions.

A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. including those sold as HARDIEHOME siding HARDIPANEL vertical siding HARDIPLANK lap siding HARDIESOFFIT panels HARDITRIM planks and HARDISHINGLE siding. These products are available with an extended warranty and are said to resist moisture damage to require only low maintenance to not crack rot or delaminate to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity rain snow salt air and termites to be non combustible and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH Co. KG of Iserlohn Germany CEMPLANK CEMPANEL and CEMTRIM cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo Calif. WEATHERBOARDS cement board products from CertainTeed Corporation of Valley Forge Pa. MAXITILE MAXISHAKE AND MAXISLATE cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson Calif. BRESTONE CINDERSTONE LEDGESTONE NEWPORT BRICK SIERRA PREMIUM and VINTAGE BRICK cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A. Inc. of Norcross Ga. EVERNICE cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co. Ltd. of China and E BOARD cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.

The disclosed coating systems may contain a variety of acid functional alkali soluble polymers. The acid functional alkali soluble polymer has a backbone substantially free of linear or branched aliphatic alkyl repeating units having more than 3 backbone carbon carbons. Representative such repeating units include CH units such as CH and hydrogenated butadiene radicals and CH units such as CHCH CH CH and hydrogenated isoprene radicals. The acid functional alkali soluble polymer preferably contains less than 10 wt. of such repeating units more preferably less than 8 wt. and most preferably less than 5 wt. based on the weight of polymer solids. Exemplary acid functional alkali soluble polymers may be prepared by making a polymer with acrylic or methacrylic acid or other polymerizable acid monomer and neutralizing the polymer by addition of ammonia or other base as is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 300 070 and 11 342 412 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 962 571. Commercially available acid functional alkali soluble polymers include JONCRYL 675 and JONCRYL 678 from Johnson Polymer Corp. A variety of polymeric materials may be employed to make acid functional alkali soluble polymers including meth acrylics vinyls oil modified polymers polyesters polyurethanes polyamides chlorinated polyolefins and mixtures or copolymers thereof. Preferred alkali soluble polymers have a number average molecular weight of no more than 50 000 daltons more preferably a number average molecular weight no more than 25 000 daltons and most preferably a number average molecular weight no more than 15 000 daltons. Typically a chain transfer agent such as a mercaptan is utilized to control molecular weight using techniques that will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art. Preferred mercaptans include dodecyl mercaptan and 3 mercaptopropionic acid.

Latex polymers are readily synthesized at modest cost and provide a preferred class of acid functional alkali soluble polymers. Latex polymers are typically prepared through chain growth polymerization using one or more olefinic compounds preferably monomers . The reactants preferably include at least one acid functional monomer in an amount sufficient to provide at least 5 wt. more preferably at least 6 wt. and yet more preferably at least 8 wt. acidic monomers in the reaction mixture. Non limiting examples of olefinic compounds which may be used to prepare latex polymers include ethylene butadiene propene butene iso butene acrylic acid methacrylic acid methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate hydroxyethyl methacrylate hydroxypropyl acrylate hydroxybutyl acrylate hydroxybutyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate 4 hydroxybutyl acrylate glycidylether acrylamide methylacrylamide styrene methyl styrene vinyl toluene vinyl acetate vinyl propionate allyl methacrylate acetoacetyl ethyl methacrylate AAEM diacetone acrylamide dimethylaminomethacrylate diethylaminomethacrylate N hydroxy meth acrylamide vinyl ether maleate vinyl esters of VERSATIC acid VERSATIC acid is a synthetic saturated monocarboxylic acid of highly branched structure containing about 5 to about ten carbon atoms and mixtures thereof. Preferably the latex polymer is an acid functional alkali soluble meth acrylic polymer. The latex polymer may optionally also be functionalized with olefinic groups or other crosslinkable groups where it is desired to enable the latex polymer to participate in radiation curing. Further details regarding such functionalized polymers are contained in applicants copending PCT Application Serial No. PCT U.S.2007 061326 filed Jan. 30 2007 and entitled COATING COMPOSITION FOR CEMENT COMPOSITE ARTICLES.

The latex polymers are typically stabilized using one or more nonionic or anionic emulsifiers viz. surfactants used either alone or together. Examples of nonionic emulsifiers include tert octylphenoxyethylpoly 39 ethoxyethanol dodecyloxypoly 10 ethoxyethanol nonylphenoxyethyl poly 40 ethoxyethanol polyethylene glycol monooleate ethoxylated castor oil fluorinated alkyl esters and alkoxylates polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monolaurate sucrose monococoate di 2 butyl phenoxypoly 20 ethoxyethanol hydroxyethylcellulosepolybutyl acrylate graft copolymer dimethyl silicone polyalkylene oxide graft copolymer poly ethylene oxide poly butyl acrylate block copolymer block copolymers of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide 2 4 7 9 tetramethyl 5 decyne 4 7 diol ethoxylated with 30 moles of ethylene oxide N polyoxyethylene 20 lauramide N lauryl N polyoxyethylene 3 amine and poly 10 ethylene glycol dodecyl thioether. Examples of anionic emulsifiers include sodium lauryl sulfate sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate potassium stearate sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecyldiphenyloxide disulfonate nonylphenoxyethylpoly 1 ethoxyethyl sulfate ammonium salt sodium styrene sulfonate sodium dodecyl allyl sulfosuccinate linseed oil fatty acid sodium or ammonium salts of phosphate esters of ethoxylated nonylphenol sodium octoxynol 3 sulfonate sodium cocoyl sarcocinate sodium 1 alkoxy 2 hydroxypropyl sulfonate sodium alpha olefin C C sulfonate sulfates of hydroxyalkanols tetrasodium N 1 2 dicarboxy ethyl N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium alkylamido polyethoxy sulfosuccinate disodium ethoxylated nonylphenol half ester of sulfosuccinic acid and the sodium salt of tert octylphenoxyethoxypoly 39 ethoxyethyl sulfate and the like. In addition combinations of emulsifiers can be used.

A water soluble free radical initiator is typically used in the polymerization of a latex polymer. Exemplary water soluble free radical initiators are described below. The amount of initiator is preferably from 0.01 wt. to 3 wt. based on the total amount of monomer. In a redox system the amount of reducing agent is preferably from 0.01 wt. to 3 wt. based on the total amount of monomer. The reaction temperature may be in the range of 10 C. to 100 C.

A variety of acid functional alkali soluble water dispersible polymers may also be used in the disclosed coating systems. Exemplary water dispersible polymers include polyurethanes polyamides chlorinated polyolefins meth acrylics vinyls oil modified polymers polyesters and mixtures or copolymers thereof. The water dispersible polymer typically will include as a part of the polymer a group or groups which render the polymer dispersible by itself in water. Preferably the water dispersible polymer is an acid functional alkali soluble polyurethane. Water dispersible polyurethanes may be made in a variety of ways. One method for preparing water dispersible polyurethanes involves reacting one or more isocyanates with one or more hydroxy compounds that include an appropriate functional group. Exemplary such functional groups include salt forming groups. For example basic salt forming groups can be introduced by reacting a suitable compound e.g. a polyisocyanate with a compound containing active hydrogen groups and active acidic groups neutralized with a base. Water based anionically stabilized polyurethane polymers can be prepared by reacting polyols and dihydroxy carboxylic acid compounds with an excess of diisocyanate to provide a carboxylic acid functional prepolymer having NCO terminal groups. The acid groups can be neutralized with a base e.g. a tertiary amine or metal salt to provide salt groups and the neutralized prepolymer can be dispersed in water. An anionic stabilizing group in a water dispersible polyurethane polymer may be replaced or used in conjunction with a nonionic stabilizing group to facilitate water dispersibility. The water dispersible polymer may optionally also be functionalized with olefinic groups or other crosslinkable groups where it is desired to enable the water dispersible polymer to participate in radiation curing. Further details regarding such functionalized water dispersible polymers are contained in applicants above mentioned copending PCT Application Serial No. PCT U.S.2007 061326.

Oil modified polymers may also be used as latex polymers or if appropriately stabilized as water dispersible polymers. As used herein oil modified polymers include polymers that contain oils or oil based derivatives such as glyceride oils monoglycerides diglycerides and the like fatty acids fatty amines and mixtures thereof. Examples of such oil modified polymers include alkyds oil modified polyurethanes oil modified polyamides oil modified acrylics and mixtures or copolymers thereof. Preferably the oil modified polymer is an acid functional alkali soluble oil modified polyurethane or alkyd. Oil modified polymers are readily synthesized and can be made to be acid functional and alkali soluble using known techniques.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably contain about 90 to about 10 by weight acid functional alkali soluble polymer based on the total weight of the non volatile components in the coating system more preferably about 80 to about 15 by weight and most preferably about 70 to about 20 by weight.

The disclosed coating systems may also contain latex polymers or water dispersible polymers that are not themselves acid functional alkali soluble polymers. Exemplary commercially available latex polymers include AIRFLEX EF811 available from Air Products EPS 2505 available from EPS CCA and NEOCAR 2300 NEOCAR 820 and NEOCAR 2535 available from Dow Chemical Co. . Other exemplary latex polymers include the latex polymers described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 329 filed Nov. 15 2006. Exemplary functionalized latex polymers include ROSHIELD 3120 available from Rohm Haas and the AAEM functional latex polymers disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 300 070 filed Dec. 14 2005 and 11 342 412 filed Jan. 30 2006 and in the above mentioned application Ser. No. 11 560 329.

In another embodiment the coating system includes a functionalized latex polymer that incorporates acetoacetyl functionality. Acetoacetyl functionality may be incorporated into the polymer through the use of acetoacetoxyethyl acrylate acetoacetoxypropyl methacrylate allyl acetoacetate acetoacetoxybutyl methacrylate 2 3 di acetoacetoxy propyl methacrylate 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate t butyl acetoacetate diketene and the like or combinations thereof. The acetoacetyl functional latex polymer can be prepared through chain growth polymerization using for example 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate AAEM . Preferred latex polymers include at least about 0.5 weight acetoacetyl functionality based on the total weight of the latex polymer more preferably about 0.5 to about 5 weight acetoacetyl functionality based on the total weight of the latex polymer and most preferably about 1 to about 4 weight acetoacetyl functionality based on the total weight of the latex polymer. Such functionalized latex polymers are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2006 0135684 A1 and 2006 0135686 A1. In general any polymerizable hydroxy functional or other active hydrogen containing monomer can be converted to the corresponding acetoacetyl functional monomer by reaction with diketene or other acetoacetylating agent see e.g. Comparison of Methods for the Preparation of Acetoacetylated Coating Resins Witzeman J. S. Dell Nottingham W. Del Rector F. J. Coatings Technology Vol. 62 1990 101 and references contained therein . In preferred coating compositions the acetoacetyl functional group is incorporated into the latex polymer via 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate t butyl acetoacetate diketene or combinations thereof. The functionalized latex polymer is preferably prepared through chain growth polymerization using one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers such as are described above.

If desired the functionalized latex polymer may be a multistage latex polymer. Multistage latex polymer compositions contain at least two polymers of different glass transition temperatures e.g. different Tg s and may be prepared via emulsion polymerization using many of the aforementioned monomers. The latex may comprise a first polymer stage the soft stage having a Tg between about 65 and 30 C. preferably between about 5 and 25 C. and a second polymer stage the hard stage having a Tg between about 30 and 230 C. preferably between about 30 and 125 C. Multistage latexes are typically produced by sequential monomer feeding techniques. For example a first monomer composition is fed during the early stages of the polymerization and then a second different monomer composition is fed during the later stages of the polymerization. In certain embodiments it may be favorable to start the polymerization with a high Tg monomer composition and then switch to a low Tg monomer composition while in other embodiments it may be favorable to start the polymerization with a low Tg monomer composition and then switch to a high Tg monomer composition.

Numerous hard and soft stages may also be utilized. For example in certain compositions it may be beneficial to polymerize two different low Tg soft stage monomer compositions after the hard stage polymer is formed. The first soft stage may be a prepared with a monomer composition Tg close to room temperature e.g. 20 C. and the second soft stage may be prepared with monomer composition Tg well below room temperature e.g. less than 5 C. . While not intending to be bound by theory it is believed that this second soft stage polymer assists with improving coalescence of the latex polymer particles.

It may also be advantageous to use a gradient Tg latex polymer which would contain an almost infinite number of Tg stages. For example one may start with a high Tg monomer composition and then at a certain point in the polymerization start to feed the low Tg soft stage monomer composition into the high Tg hard stage monomer feed. The resulting multistage latex polymer will have a gradient Tg from high to low. A power feed process may be used to prepare such compositions. A gradient Tg polymer may also be used in conjunction with multiple multistage Tg polymers. As an example one may prepare a high Tg monomer feed F1 and a low Tg monomer feed F2 . One would begin to feed F1 into the latex reactor vessel and initiate polymerization. At a certain period during the F1 feed one would then feed F2 into F1 wherein the F2 feed rate is faster than the overall feed rate of F1 F2 into the reactor vessel. Consequently once the F2 feed into F1 is complete the overall Tg of the F1 F2 monomer feed blend will be a lower Tg soft stage monomer composition.

Preferably the multistage latex polymer is prepared with a high Tg alkali soluble polymer hard stage made from an acid functional alkali soluble polymer having a backbone substantially free of linear or branched aliphatic alkyl repeating units having more than 3 backbone carbon carbons prepared as described above. A low Tg soft stage monomer composition could then be polymerized in the presence of the hard stage acid functional alkali soluble polymer to prepare a multistage latex polymer.

The disclosed multistage latex polymer preferably includes about 5 to about 95 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology based on total polymer weight more preferably about 50 to about 90 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology based on total polymer weight and most preferably about 55 to about 80 weight percent soft stage polymer morphology on total polymer weight. The disclosed multistage latex polymer preferably includes about 5 to 95 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology on total polymer weight more preferably about 10 to about 50 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology on total polymer weight and most preferably about 20 to about 45 weight percent hard stage polymer morphology on total polymer weight.

Compositions of this embodiment preferably include a multistage latex polymer in an amount of at least 10 weight more preferably at least 25 weight and even more preferably at least 35 weight based on total solids of the composition. Compositions of this embodiment preferably include a multistage polymer in an amount less than 95 weight more preferably less than 85 weight and even more preferably less than 80 weight based on the total solids in the composition.

The multistage latex polymer is preferably prepared through chain growth polymerization using one or more ethylenically unsaturated monomers as mentioned above. The ratios of the monomers may be adjusted to provide the desired level of hard or soft segments. In general the Fox equation may be employed to calculate the theoretical Tg of the monomer composition being fed. For example a soft segment may be introduced by providing a monomer composition comprising 5 to 65 parts butyl acrylate 20 to 90 parts butyl methacrylate 0 to 55 parts methyl methacrylate 0 to 5 parts meth acrylic acid and 0 to 20 parts AAEM. In contrast an acid functional alkali soluble polymer hard segment may be introduced by providing a monomer composition comprising 0 to 20 parts butyl acrylate 0 to 40 parts butyl methacrylate 45 to 95 parts methyl methacrylate 5 to 20 parts meth acrylic acid and 0 to 20 parts AAEM. The aforementioned compositions are illustrative of this concept and other compositions can be used in the practice of this invention. A preferred embodiment would contain at least 15 weight butyl methacrylate based upon total functionalized multistage latex polymer solids. Preferably the functionalized multistage latex polymer includes acetoacetyl functionality which may be incorporated into the multistage polymer as described above. A water soluble free radical initiator is typically used in the chain growth polymerization of the functionalized latex polymer as described above.

The functionalized latex polymers described above whether single stage or multistage may be stabilized by one or more nonionic or anionic emulsifiers e.g. surfactants used either alone or together as described above.

The disclosed coating systems include one or more water soluble silicate salts. Visual observation of coating compositions containing such silicate salts indicated that inclusion of the silicate salt led to improved absorption of the coating composition into cement fiberboard substrates. The silicate salt may also serve as an alkaline base that helps to neutralize the acid functional alkali soluble polymer and render it soluble or dispersible in water. Examples of silicate salts include lithium silicate potassium silicate sodium silicate ammonium silicate and the like. In preferred embodiments the amount of silicate salt is from about 2 to about 50 by weight more preferably from about 5 to about 40 by weight and most preferably from about 10 to about 35 by weight based on the total weight of the non volatile components. Silicate salts are available through a variety of chemical suppliers. For example sodium silicate sometimes referred to as waterglass is available in a variety of forms including sodium orthosilicate NaSiO sodium metasilicate NaSiO sodium polysilicate NaSiO n and sodium pyrosilicate NaSiO . Sodium silicate and potassium silicate sometimes referred to as potassium waterglass are available from PQ Corporation Valley Forge Pa.

The disclosed coating systems contain water. The water may for example be distilled deionized or tap water. The amount of water preferably is about 95 to about 40 wt. more preferably about 90 to about 60 wt. and most preferably about 85 to about 50 wt. of the total coating system weight.

The disclosed coating systems may contain one or more optional olefinic compounds. An olefinic compound appears to function as a reactive penetrant. This may be better appreciated by observing a coating system containing an olefinic compound after the system is applied to the substrate but before radiation curing is performed. An olefinic compound appears to improve wetting or penetration and may help draw at least a portion of the other coating system components into pores in the substrate. An olefinic compound also appears to help the coating adhere to the substrate following cure or other hardening. Further details regarding such olefinic compounds are contained in applicants above mentioned copending PCT Application Serial No. PCT U.S.2007 061326.

If desired the disclosed coating system may optionally include an epoxy resin system. The epoxy resin system is typically a multi component coating system. Epoxy resin systems include multi functional epoxy resins e.g. di tri tetra and other multi functional epoxy resins that are prepared from aliphatic or aromatic starting materials. Examples of such multi functional epoxy resins include the reaction products of epoxy containing compounds e.g. epichlorohydrin with multi functional aliphatic or aromatic alcohols or acids. Further details regarding such epoxy resins are contained in applicants copending PCT Applications Serial No. PCT U.S.2007 069387 filed May 21 2007 and entitled COATING SYSTEM FOR CEMENT COMPOSITE ARTICLES and PCT U.S.2007 073070 filed Jul. 9 2008 and entitled COATING SYSTEMS FOR CEMENT COMPOSITE ARTICLES.

Other optional components for use in the coating systems herein are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86. Typical performance enhancing additives that may be employed include surface active agents pigments colorants dyes surfactants dispersants defoamers thickeners heat stabilizers leveling agents coalescents biocides mildewcides anti cratering agents curing indicators plasticizers fillers sedimentation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers optical brighteners and the like to modify properties.

The coating systems may also contain an optional coalescent and many coalescents are known in the art. The optional coalescent is preferably a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 762 230.

Other optional components for use in the coating systems herein are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86. Typical performance enhancing additives that may be employed include surface active agents pigments colorants dyes surfactants dispersants defoamers thickeners heat stabilizers leveling agents coalescents biocides mildewcides anti cratering agents curing indicators plasticizers fillers sedimentation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers optical brighteners and the like to modify properties.

Optional pigments include titanium dioxide white carbon black lampblack black iron oxide red iron oxide yellow iron oxide brown iron oxide a blend of red and yellow oxide with black phthalocyanine green phthalocyanine blue organic reds such as naphthol red quinacridone red and toulidine red quinacridone magenta quinacridone violet DNA orange and or organic yellows such as Hansa yellow . The composition can also include a gloss control additive or an optical brightener such as that commercially available under the trade designation UVITEX OB from Ciba Geigy.

Optional fillers and inert ingredients include for example clay glass beads calcium carbonate talc silicas organic fillers and the like. Fillers extend lower the cost of alter the appearance of or provide desirable characteristics to the composition before and after curing.

The disclosed coating systems and coating compositions may include other ingredients that modify properties of the coating system or coating composition as it is stored handled or applied and at other or subsequent stages. Optional waxes flatting agents mar and abrasion additives and other similar performance enhancing additives may be employed as required in amounts effective to upgrade the performance of the coating system coating composition or hardened coating. Desirable performance characteristics for the hardened coating include chemical resistance abrasion resistance hardness gloss reflectivity appearance or combinations of these characteristics and other similar characteristics.

Wet adhesion testing and freeze thaw cycles have been shown under laboratory conditions to simulate long term outdoor exposure encountered in northern climates. A Wet Adhesion Test may be carried out as follows to evaluate adhesion of the coating system after a coated cement fiberboard substrate has been saturated with water. According to this test procedure coated substrates e.g. fiber cement boards are soaked in room temperature water for 24 hours. After soaking the boards are removed from the water and kept at room temperature for 24 hours. A six inch 15.24 cm length of 3M HD tape is applied to the surface of the board with the long axis of the tape in the direction of any embossing patterns that may be present. The tape is firmly pressed onto the board ensuring full contact. The tape is then removed by quickly pulling it off at a 90 degree angle to the board. Wet Adhesion performance is rated based on the percent of coating removed from the cement board. Performance is further assessed by noting where any failure occurs. For example failure may occur between interfacial coating layers between the coating and the surface of the board or within the board itself. Preferred coating systems or coating compositions typically have less than 25 coating removal more preferably less than 15 coating removal. In addition the failure preferably is within the board as indicated by a significant amount of fiber from the board adhering to the removed coating.

Preferred coated articles can withstand at least 30 freeze thaw cycles when tested according to ASTM D6944 03 Test Method A. As written this ASTM test method recites a 30 cycle sequence. However rather than simply grade a specimen as a pass at the end of 30 cycles the test desirably is lengthened to include additional cycles. More preferably the coated articles can withstand at least 75 freeze thaw cycles most preferably at least 125 freeze thaw cycles and optimally at least 175 freeze thaw cycles.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably have improved viz. lower volatile organic content VOC . The coating systems or coating compositions desirably have a VOC of less than about 5 based on the total weight of the coating system preferably a VOC of less than about 2 more preferably a VOC of less than about 0.5 .

Exemplary coating compositions that can be used in the disclosed coating systems are listed below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of coating compositions.

A variety of application routes may be employed for preparing the coated articles. Specific application routes include 

Accordingly the articles can be prepared by applying the coating system as a single coating composition or the coating system can be applied as multiple compositions. In coating systems using multiple coating compositions i the applied coating composition s can be dried to remove at least a portion of the water prior to curing or addition of one or more additional coating compositions or ii the coating composition s can be applied prior to drying the previously applied coating composition s thus allowing the coating compositions to mix at an interface.

The disclosed coating composition s are preferably applied at about 5 to 50 solids by weight and more preferably at about 10 to 40 solids. The coating systems may be applied by any number of application techniques including but not limited to brushing e.g. using a brush coater direct roll coating reverse roll coating flood coating vacuum coating curtain coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. Lower viscosities facilitate uniform film control. The applied film thickness may be controlled for example by varying the application rate.

The disclosed coating systems may for example be applied to a cement fiberboard substrate by roll coating. A dry film thickness DFT of the coating system on the cement fiberboard substrate may for example be in the range of but not limited to about 0.2 to about 4 mil about 0.005 to about 0.1 mm more preferably about 0.3 to about 3 mil about 0.008 to about 0.08 mm .

It is preferred that the coated articles are coated on at least one major surface with the coating system. More preferably the coated articles are coated on a major surface and up to four minor surfaces including any edges. Most preferably the coated articles are coated on all e.g. both major surfaces and up to four minor surfaces including any edges.

A topcoat may be applied directly to the coating system. The coating systems and coating compositions described herein may be used in place of or in addition to coatings that the prior art has categorized as sealers primers and topcoats. However the systems and compositions may not fit neatly into any category per se and such terms should not be limiting.

It is also noted that the disclosed coating systems and coating compositions can be used with other coating compositions such as those disclosed in the following applications U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 764 103 60 764 131 and 60 764 242 each filed Jan. 31 2006 and 60 802 185 filed May 19 2006.

The invention will be described by the following non limiting examples. Unless otherwise indicated all parts and percentages are by weight.

An alkali soluble polymer was prepared from a monomer mixture of methyl methacrylate MMA methacrylic acid MAA dodecylmercaptan and 3 mercaptopropionic acid. The ratio of MMA to MAA was 91 9. The polymer was prepared at 21 solids in deionized water and was rendered water soluble via the addition of a 1 1 mix of potassium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide until a pH of greater than 7 resulted.

An alkali soluble polymer was prepared from a monomer mixture of methyl methacrylate MMA methacrylic acid MAA dodecylmercaptan and 3 mercaptopropionic acid. The ratio of MMA to MAA was 90 10. The polymer was prepared at 21 solids in deionized water and was rendered water soluble via the addition of ammonium hydroxide until a pH of greater than 7 resulted.

An acetoacetyl functional multistage latex polymer is prepared by adding a monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate BA methyl methacrylate MMA and 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate AAEM to alkali soluble polymer A. The ratio of BA MMA AAEM is 52 43 5. 65 parts of the monomer mixture is added to 35 parts of the alkali soluble polymer. The monomer mixture is polymerized with a redox initiation system of t butyl hydroperoxide and isoascorbic acid. The final solids level for the combined polymer mixture would be about 35 in water.

An acetoacetyl functional multistage latex polymer is prepared by adding a monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate BA methyl methacrylate MMA styrene S and 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate AAEM to alkali soluble polymer A. The ratio of BA MMA S AAEM is 55.5 24.5 15 5. 60 parts of the monomer mixture is added to 40 parts of the alkali soluble polymer. The monomer mixture is polymerized with a redox initiation system of t butyl hydroperoxide and isoascorbic acid The final solids level for the combined polymer mixture would be about 35 in water.

An acetoacetyl functional multistage latex polymer is prepared by adding a monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate BA methyl methacrylate MMA styrene S and 2 acetoacetoxy ethyl methacrylate AAEM to alkali soluble polymer B. The ratio of BA MMA S AAEM is 49 26 15 10. 65 parts of the monomer mixture is added to 35 parts of the alkali soluble polymer. The monomer mixture is polymerized with a redox initiation system of t butyl hydroperoxide and isoascorbic acid. The final solids level for the combined polymer mixture would be about 35 in water.

An multistage latex polymer is prepared by adding a monomer mixture containing butyl acrylate BA methyl methacrylate MMA styrene S and 2 aceto acetoxy ethyl methacrylate AAEM to the alkali soluble polymer B. The ratio of BA MMA S is 58 27 15. 60 parts of the monomer mixture is added to 40 parts of the alkali soluble polymer. The monomer mixture is polymerized with a redox initiation system of t butyl hydroperoxide and isoascorbic acid. The final solids level for the combined polymer mixture would be about 35 in water.

Samples mix for 30 minutes and the coating system is allowed to de air. The coating is then applied to a fiber cement article at a dry film thickness of 0.5 to 0.7 mils 0.00127 to 0.001778 cm by either a single coating application or by two or more coating applications and a portion of the water is removed either by air drying a heated drying stage or by application to a warm substrate e.g. about 38 C. . The coated substrate may then be coated with a second coating system e.g. using a topcoat as disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 329.

A reactor was charged with 567 parts of deionized water and 1.5 parts RHODAPON UB sodium lauryl sulfate Rhodia . The reaction mixture was heated to 75 C. under a nitrogen blanket. During heating a pre emulsion was formed containing 331 parts of deionized water 56.8 parts of RHODAPON UB 0.9 parts ammonium persulfate 149 parts of 2 ethyl hexyl acrylate 732 parts of butyl methacrylate 28.1 parts of AAEM and 28.1 parts of methacrylic acid. Once the reaction mixture reached 75 C. 2.8 parts of ammonium persulfate was added to the reactor and the monomer feed started for a 3 hour feed rate. The reaction temperature was held between 80 C. to 85 C. during polymerization. Once the pre emulsion feed was complete the container was rinsed with 20 parts of deionized water and the reaction was held 30 minutes. A post reaction consisting of 0.9 parts t butyl hydroperoxide mixed with 20 parts of deionized water and 0.7 parts of isoascorbic acid mixed with 20 parts of deionized water was then added over 30 minutes. The resulting latex polymer was then cooled to 40 C. 28 concentrated ammonia was added to adjust the pH to 7.5 8.5 and deionized water was added to adjust the weight solids to 48 .

A reactor was charged with 547 parts of deionized water and 1.5 parts RHODAPON UB. The reaction mixture was heated to 75 C. under a nitrogen blanket. During heating pre emulsion 1 was formed containing 215 parts of deionized water 37 parts of RHODAPON UB 0.6 parts ammonium persulfate 103 parts of 2 ethyl hexyl acrylate 470 parts of butyl methacrylate 18 parts of AAEM and 18 parts of methacrylic acid. Pre emulsion 2 was formed containing 116 parts of deionized water 20 parts of RHODAPON UB 0.3 parts ammonium persulfate 223 parts of methylmethacrylate 85 parts of butyl methacrylate 10 parts of AAEM and 10 parts of methacrylic acid. Once the reaction mixture reached 75 C. 2.8 parts of ammonium persulfate was added to the reactor and the pre emulsion 1 started for a 2 hour feed rate. Once pre emulsion 1 was added the container was rinsed with 20 parts deionized water and pre emulsion 2 started for a 1 hour feed rate. The reaction temperature was held between 80 C. to 85 C. during polymerization. Once the pre emulsion 2 feeds was complete the container was rinsed with 20 parts of deionized water and the reaction was held 30 minutes. A post reaction consisting of 0.9 parts t butyl hydroperoxide mixed with 20 parts of deionized water and 0.7 parts of isoascorbic acid mixed with 20 parts of deionized water was then added over 30 minutes. The resulting latex polymer was then cooled to 40 C. a 28 concentrate ammonia was added to adjust the pH to 7.5 8.5 and deionized water was added to adjust the weight solids to 48 .

In a mixing vessel equipped with a high speed mixer and dispersion blade the following ingredients were added in order parts by weight 

The above ingredients were mixed for 5 minutes or until homogenous and then the following ingredients were added parts by weight 

The above ingredients were mixed at high speed for 15 minutes and then the following ingredients were added parts by weight 

A 15.24 21 cm board sample may be prepared as described in Example 3 and then a second coating system applied using the following technique.

Preheat board sample to 43 C. 110 F. using a convection oven set at 149 C. 300 F. . Apply approximately 5.2 grams of the coating system by spreading evenly over the surface of the board using either a bristle or foam brush. Immediately after coating the board place it in a 149 C. 300 F. oven until the board surface temperature reaches 60 C. 140 F. . Remove sample and allow it to cool to room temperature.

Adhesion test procedure A board sample that is sealed top coated and dried can be tested for coating adhesion using 3 250 masking tape. The adhesion of a coating system to the surface of a board may be tested after the coating system is applied and cured or otherwise hardened. To the surface of the board apply at least a 3 inch strip of masking tape. Firmly press the tape to the board surface using either a rubber roller or a thumb applying a minimum of 5 psi to the full length of the tape for 10 seconds. Allow 2 minutes for the adhesive to equilibrate on the board surface. After equilibrating remove the tape by rapidly equal to or less than 1 second pulling it up at a 90 degree angle. Failure is reported as a combination of coating adhesion failure and also board surface failure. When one tests adhesion the systems coated with the disclosed coating system containing an acid functional alkali soluble polymer and silicate salt will exhibit less than 10 adhesion loss. In contrast the boards that are not coated with this coating system will exhibit approximately 50 adhesion loss.

All patents patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies the present disclosure including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within invention.

