---

title: Method and system for display of information in a communication system gathered from external sources
abstract: Among other disclosures, a method may include identifying one or more of personal or public data that is related to a party in a message. The message delivered by a communication system where the personal or public data is unrelated to and otherwise inaccessible to the communication system. The method may include displaying the personal or public data upon a predetermined trigger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549412&OS=08549412&RS=08549412
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08549412
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080725
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 951 880 filed on Jul. 25 2007 entitled Presentation of Personal and Public Data Queried Through Implicit Actions the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

Electronic communications between persons for both business and personal use have increased substantially in recent years. In addition to the number of communications increasing the number of available communication mediums has also increased. In addition to e mail communications and telephone communications additional forms of communication have become common in recent years including instant messaging social network messaging and commenting message board posting text messaging and Voice Over Internet Protocol communications.

These additional forms of communication have led to individuals exchanging communications with more people than ever before which leads to an even higher increase in the number of communications sent and received by an individual.

The present disclosure relates to collecting and presenting profile data within a communication system. The present disclosure further relates to identifying and displaying personal or public profile data that is unrelated and otherwise inaccessible to the communication system.

In a first aspect a computer implemented method identifies one or more of personal or public data that is related to a party in a message. The message is delivered by a communication system. The personal or public data is unrelated to and otherwise inaccessible to the communication system. The method displays the personal or public data upon a predetermined trigger.

The method can further include a trigger of initiating a communication with the party. The method can further include a trigger of retrieving a communication in the communication system from or to the party. The method can further include gathering the personal or public data from a social network site that includes the party as a member. The method can further include identifying the personal or public data when performing a search. The method can further include using an Internet search as the search. The method can further include searching the personal or public data using a local search of a device executing the communication system. The method can further include identifying the personal or public data by searching social network sites associated with the party. The method can further include displaying the personal or private data in a user interface along with the user interface of the communication system.

The method can further include displaying the personal or private data in a profile associated with the party. The method can further include displaying the profile in a user interface along with the user interface of the communication system. The method can further include displaying the profile in a same user interface as the communication system. The method can further include identifying personal or private data unrelated to the communication system including using data selected from the group comprising a party name email address or screen name. The method can further include displaying the personal or private data in an email client web browser or stand alone application. The method can further include selecting the personal or private data from the group comprising public or private web based data social network data webmail data phone numbers addresses search engine results or non web public or private data sources. The method can further include selecting the trigger implicitly from the group comprising clicking on or selecting a communication from the party.

The method can further include enabling a user to interact with the displayed data. The method can further include interactions where interacting includes linking the displayed data to a source of such data to enable a user interacting with the link to access source material associated with the displayed data. The method can further include enabling a user to configure settings that control the content and timing of the displayed data.

In some implementations instead of an e mail client the system can include an instant messaging client a social network client a text message client or another communication viewing client. It is to be understood that while portions of this description describe systems and methods involving e mail communications these same systems and methods can be implemented using other forms of communication including instant messages phone calls text messages Internet message board postings social network messages or comments or voice over IP communications.

The e mail client also includes a profile . In the example depicted the profile is displayed as an additional panel within the e mail client positioned to the right of the inbox viewing panel and the e mail viewing panel . This additional panel is sometimes referred to as a side bar. In some implementations the profile can be located at the top bottom left side or any other location within the e mail client . In some implementations the profile can be displayed in a stand alone window in a pop up bubble displayed over a portion of the e mail client or integrated as part of one of the other viewing panels displayed by the e mail client . For example a pop up bubble containing a profile could appear when an e mail is selected in the inbox viewing panel when an e mail address or portion of text in the e mail viewing panel is selected or when a mouse icon is moved over an e mail address name icon or portion of text. In another example information can be integrated as part of the body of an e mail such as inserting a picture next to a person s name in the body of an e mail or inserting a person s name next to a phone number in an e mail or attachment.

The profile can contain information relating to a sender of an e mail a recipient of an e mail the body of an e mail an attachment to an e mail or a person or topic mentioned in an e mail. In alternate implementations the profile can contain information related to a sender recipient body attachment or topic of another communication medium such as an instant message a phone call a text message an Internet message board a social network message or comment or a voice over IP communication. The user can implicitly request information to be displayed in the profile by selecting an e mail in the inbox viewing panel or selecting text within a header or body of an e mail in the e mail viewing panel . In some implementations the profile can include additional information e.g. derived information such as search results derived from a topic mentioned in a communication .

In some implementations the profile can display information about an entity other than a person. For example a communication may be received from an automated system such as from a travel website on line retailer an advertising service or a mailing list. The profile can display information related to the sender of the communication. For example if the communication received has been sent from a travel website information related to the travel website or other communications from the travel website can be displayed. In another example if the communication received has been sent from an mailing list information related to the mailing list or other communications received from the mailing list can be displayed. As yet another example if the communication received has been sent from a business entity information about the business entity e.g. address telephone number contact person name can be included in the profile.

For example the user can select an e mail in the inbox viewing panel causing the profile to display information related to a sender of the e mail . In another example the user can select an e mail address or name of a recipient of the e mail in order to display information related to the recipient in the profile . In another example the user can select an attachment to the e mail in order to display information related to the attachment in the profile . In yet another example the user can select the name of a person a user name of a person or a particular topic listed in a header a body or an attachment of the e mail in order to display information related to the person or topic in the profile .

In some implementations the system can determine if the user has made an implicit request to view information in the profile by tracking for example user input of the form of mouse movements mouse locations keyboard strokes mouse clicks or active windows. Implicit requests to view information in the profile can include opening viewing reading or writing an e mail or other communication medium. For example if the user starts to compose an instant message the profile can display information related to the recipient of the instant message. In another example if the user views a social network profile either within the e mail client or in a separate web browser the profile can display information related to a person associated with the social network profile.

In some implementations the user can make a specific request to view information in the profile by performing a search or clicking on a person s name.

In some implementations the system can be linked to a phone e.g. voice over IP phone used by the user. For example the system can include means for detecting when the user makes or receives a phone call or text message using the phone and display information related to a recipient or initiator of the phone call or text message in the profile .

In the example depicted in the user has selected the e mail in the inbox viewing panel and header information and a portion of the body of the e mail is displayed in the e mail viewing panel . The e mail was received from the sender . The system has determined that the user has made an implicit request to view information related to the sender by selecting the e mail . In response to this implicit request the system displays in the profile information related to the sender .

In the example the information displayed in the profile includes an e mail address a phone number communication statistics a contact network a conversation list and a files exchanged list . In some implementations the profile can display additional contact information such as name screen names social network profile names social network profile URLs physical addresses website URLs additional e mail addresses or additional telephone numbers.

In the example the communication statistics include the number of e mails received from the sender and the number of e mails sent to the sender . In some implementations additional communication statistics can be displayed including times of communications dates of communications types of communications volume of communications length of communications or speed of responses. For example a statistic for the average amount of time it takes the sender to respond to e mails sent by the user can be displayed. In another example the times of day that the sender is most likely to respond to an e mail or other form of communication can be displayed as a communication statistic . In another example a statistic can be displayed that lists the percentage of communications between the user and the sender that occur using a telephone the percentage of communications that occur using instant messaging the percentage of communications that occur using e mails or the percentage of communications that occur using a social network website as a percentage of all communications between the user and the sender . In another example the number of communications sent or received on which the sender has been copied can be displayed as a communication statistic . In another example the number of communications received by the user on which the sender has also been listed as a recipient can be displayed as a communication statistic .

In some implementations the communication statistics that are displayed can be chosen by the user. The user can choose to have a default set of communication statistics displayed or the user can select which individual communication statistics are to be displayed. The user can choose to have the same set of communication statistics displayed for each profile or the user can choose to have a different set of communication statistics displayed depending on which person or topic the currently displayed profile is associated with.

The contact network displayed in the profile shows a list of contacts that are associated with the sender . In the example depicted the contacts are shown as e mail addresses. In some implementations the contacts can be listed as names screen names nick names employee numbers social network profile names social network profile URLs telephone numbers website URLs or any combination of these.

In some implementations details about a contact can be displayed adjacent to the contact in the contact network . These details can include time since last communication last form of communication frequency of communications total numbers of communications or other related data.

The contacts listed in the contact network are contacts that are associated with the sender . The contacts can include recipients of communications from the sender recipients of communications of which the sender is also a recipient individuals named in a body or header of a communication with the sender or individuals named in a document that is attached to a communication with the sender . For example a person who was copied on an e mail between the user and the sender can be listed as a contact in the contact network . In the example depicted the header of the e mail as shown in the e mail viewing panel lists all.houston enron.com as a recipient of the e mail . The contact network lists all.houston enron.com as a contact of the sender . In another example if the user receives an e mail from the sender with the subject line Matt Smith s birthday party Matt Smith can be listed as a contact in the contact network even if Matt Smith has never been included in or been the recipient of any communications between the user and the sender . In another example if the user posts a comment to a social network profile page belonging to the sender and a person named Eric Johnson has also posted a comment to the social network profile page or is listed as a friend of the sender on the social network profile page Eric Johnson can be listed as a contact in the contact network .

In some implementations the contacts listed in the contact network can be collected from sources other than communications between the user and the sender . In one implementation the sender can provide a list of contacts to the user to include in the contact network for the sender . The sender can provide the list of contacts to the user through sharing the list of contacts on a shared network or by sending a communication to the user with for example the list of contacts in a body of the communication or in an attachment to the communication.

In another implementation the system can collect data from outside sources in order to determine contacts to be listed in the contact network . The system can query various sources to extract information on contacts that can be associated with the sender and listed in the contact network . Sources of information that can be queried to derive contacts associated with the sender can include web search engines people search engines social networks personal web pages telephone directories scanned business card data or company website profiles.

For example the system can perform a search of a social network based on the sender s name e mail address screen names or other information about the sender . The system can then identify a profile page on the social network belonging to the sender . Any contacts that are publicly listed on the social network profile page can be listed in the contact network of the sender even if the user has never communicated with the sender using the social network or viewed the profile page of the sender on this social network. In some implementations the system can access and extract contacts listed on a private social network profile page belonging to the sender if the user has proper access information or authorization to view the private social network profile page of the sender .

In another example the system can use a search engine to perform a search based on the sender s name e mail address screen names or other information about the sender in order to identify web pages that may contain contacts that can be associated with the sender . For example the system can use a search engine to perform a search based on the sender s name. If one of the search results returned is for a blog written by a person named Mark Adams that mentions the sender then Mark Adams can be listed as a contact in the contact network . In another example the system can determine that the sender works for the same company as a person who has sent a different communication to the user. This person can then be listed as a contact of the sender . In some implementations the system can collect data using a peer to peer network.

Information that can be used to collect information about contacts or other information displayed in the profile can include e mail addresses names screen names social network profile names phone numbers personal website URLs social network profile URLs or physical addresses.

The contacts displayed in the contact network can be listed in order based on a ranking system. Criteria used to rank the contacts can include total volume of communication volume of communication over a period of time length of communications importance level of communications types of communications contents of communications time of communications methods by which the contacts were determined to be associated with the sender or any combination of these. For example the contacts can be ranked based on the total number of communications between the user and the sender for which a contact is also a recipient of the communication. In another example the contacts can be ranked based on the number of communications between the user and the sender for which a contact is also a recipient of the communication over the course of the last three weeks. In another example the contacts can be ranked based on the number of communications between the user and a contact for which the sender is also a recipient of the communication.

In another example the contacts can be ranked based on the length of communications between the user and the sender for which a contact is also a recipient of the communication with longer communications being ranked higher than shorter communications. In another example contacts that are listed on communications flagged as urgent or important can be ranked higher than other contacts. In another example the user can choose to have contacts who mainly communicate with the user or sender using e mail ranked higher than contacts who mainly communicate with the user or sender using instant message or social networks. In another example the system can use the contents of communications involving each contact and the sender to determine if communications involving the contact and the sender are primarily business related or social related communications. The system can then give a higher ranking to contacts associated with business communications than contacts associated with social communications.

In another example contacts who are associated with more recent communications between the user and the sender can be ranked higher than contacts associated with older communications between the user and the sender . In another example contacts that have been determined to be associated with the sender based on e mail communication can be ranked higher than contacts that have been determined to be associated with the sender based on web searches.

In some implementations each contact listed in the contact network can be a link to more information about the contact . For example if a contact is clicked on selected or interacted with by the user a profile containing information about the selected contact can be displayed. In another example the user can hover a mouse cursor or other selection tool over a contact . This can cause a pop up bubble containing additional information about the contact to be displayed.

The conversation list can display a list of recent communications between the user and the sender or involving the user and the sender . The communications displayed on the conversation list can be a list of past e mails text messages instant messages telephone calls social network communications message board posts or voice over IP communications involving the sender . In some implementations the conversation list can be a list of recent conversation threads involving the sender . A conversation thread is a series of communications that can be grouped together. For example a series of e mails having the same or similar subjects can be grouped together as a conversation thread. In another example a group of instant messages between the sender and the user that occurred over a specific period of time can be grouped together as a conversation thread. For example if the user sent and received a series of instant messages from the sender over a three hour period earlier in the day and that conversation was separated from another series of instant messages between the user and the sender by a period of 2 hours the instant messages that were sent and received during that three hour period can be grouped together as a conversation thread. In another example a series of telephone calls between the user and the sender that occurred during a set time period can be grouped together as a conversation thread.

The communications or conversation threads displayed in the conversation list can be listed in order based on a ranking system. In one implementation conversation threads can be listed in order of most recent communications to oldest communications. In another implementation conversation threads can be listed in order of oldest to most recent. In another implementation conversation threads can be listed in order of importance with conversation threads containing communications marked as urgent being ranked higher than conversation threads with fewer communications marked urgent or no communications marked urgent. In another implementation the system can determine which conversation threads are work related and which conversation threads are social. The conversation threads that are work related can then be ranked higher than the conversation threads that are social. In another implementation conversation threads can be ranked based on the number of communications in the conversation thread.

Communications that are listed in the conversation list can include communications initiated by the sender communications for which the sender is a recipient communications on which the sender has been copied or communications in which the sender is mentioned.

In the example depicted in the conversation list displays a list of recent conversation threads involving the user and the sender . The conversation threads displayed are for recent e mail communications involving the user and the sender . The e mails in each conversation thread are grouped by subject. The conversation list displays the subject for each conversation thread the number of e mails in each conversation thread and the amount of time that has passed since the last communication for this conversation thread was sent or received. In some implementations additional information can be displayed for each conversation thread including time and date of the last communication in the conversation thread time and date of the first communication in the conversation thread other contacts involved in the conversation thread average length of communications in the conversation thread total number of people involved in the conversation thread level of importance of the communications in the conversation thread attachments shared in the conversation thread calendar events related to the conversation thread other forms of communication related to the conversation thread relevant web data or average response time of communications in the conversation thread.

In some implementations the conversation list can display a summary or the first few lines of the most recent communication for each conversation list. In another implementation the conversation list can display a summary or the first few lines of the first communication for each conversation list. In another implementation the conversation list can display a summary or the first few lines of the last communication initiated by the sender for each conversation list.

The files exchanged list displays a list of files that were attached to communications involving the user and the sender . This can include communications initiated by the user for which the sender was a recipient communications initiated by the sender for which the user was a recipient or communications initiated by a third party for which the sender and the user were both recipients. The files exchanged list can also include files that were exchanged between the user and the sender with out using a communication medium. For example the files exchanged list can include files that were transferred from the sender s network drive to the user s computer or network drive. In another example the files exchanged list can include files that were transferred to the user s computer or network drive from an external hard drive flash drive or floppy disk belonging to or populated by the sender .

The files displayed in the files exchanged list can be listed in order based on a ranking system. In one implementation files can be listed in order of most recently received files to least recently received files. In another implementation files can be listed in order of oldest to most recent. In another implementation files can be listed in order of importance with files that were attached to communications marked as urgent being ranked higher than files attached to communications that were not marked as urgent. In another implementation the system can determine which files are work related and which files are personal. The files that are work related can then be ranked higher than the files that are personal. In another implementation files can be ranked based on the size of the files.

In some implementations the files displayed in the files exchanged list can be grouped together. The files can be grouped together based on the subject of the communications to which the files were attached file name file title date of the file date of the communication file type or subject matter of the file. For example if a document has undergone several rounds of revisions the different versions of the document can be grouped together so that the different versions of the document can be easily compared to one another. In another example a number of files about rain forests can be grouped together since they all contain related subject matter. In another example all image files can be grouped together so that they can be more easily viewed or easily put into a slide show. For example a group of image files can be displayed as a slide show and each slide can contain additional information about the image being displayed such as who sent the image recipients of the image the date the image was sent or received or other information drawn from one or more communications to which the image was attached.

In some implementations the profile can include additional information about the selected e mail . The system can extract information from the e mail and use this information to gather and display data from websites search engines or other sources of information. For example the e mail may contain information about travel arrangements. The e mail can be an e mail from an airline travel agent travel website or other source. If the e mail contains information about a flight such as a flight number an airline a departure time an arrival time a departure city or an arrival city the system can use this information to query search engines or travel websites for information about the flight. This information can include expected departure time expected arrival time expected delays weather in the destination city weather in the departure city or any changes to the flight. This information can then be displayed as part of the profile . This allows the user to see when changes to travel arrangements have occurred and easily contact a travel company or airline in order to correct the situation.

In another example the e mail can contain information about a purchase from an on line retailer. The e mail can contain shipping information shipping status or order information. If the e mail contains a shipping number for the shipment of a recently purchased item the system can query a search engine or shipping web site to extract information about the current status and expected arrival of the item. This information can then be displayed as part of the profile .

In another example the e mail can contain information about an item or service that the user is interested in purchasing. The system can query one or more search engines websites or on line retailers to determine which retailer or website has the best price or currently has the item in stock or the service available. This information can then be displayed as part of the profile .

The profile includes a search bar . The search bar can be used to request that information be displayed about a particular person topic conversation thread communication or file. For example a search performed using the search bar and the search string Allan Tate can result in a profile for a person named Allan Tate being displayed. In another example a search using the search string sunday presentation.ppt can result in information about a file named sunday presentation.ppt being displayed. In another example a search using the search string 2002 Sales Goals can result in information to be displayed regarding communications with the subject 2002 Sales Goals containing the phrase 2002 Sales Goals or having attachments that contain the phrase 2002 Sales Goals .

Search criteria that can be used to identify a profile can include names screen names social network profile names social network profile URLs physical addresses website URLs e mail addresses e mail subject lines file names or telephone numbers. For example a search using the search string allan.tate example.com can result in a profile for a person named Allan Tate being displayed. In the example depicted in a search for the phone number 612 555 1243 may have been performed in order to display the profile for the person named Jen Ertel .

The profile can include a title bar . The title bar can display a name a nick name a screen name a primary e mail address or other identifying title for the person so that the user can easily identify who the information in the profile is related to.

The profile can also include an image . The image can be a picture of the person to help the user more easily identify who the information in the profile is related to or to help the user identify whom he or she is communicating with. For example if the user receives an instant message from a person with the screen name summergirl the user may not be able to remember who this screen name belongs to. When the instant message is received the profile can display information about the person with the screen name summergirl including a picture of the person as the image . This can help the user to identify whom he or she is communicating with. The image can also be an image icon or picture associated with the person . The image icon or picture can be used to identify the person as a business contact co worker friend social acquaintance client or contractor. For example all of the profiles for contacts from a particular company can display a logo for that company. This can help the user to quickly identify what relationship he or she has with these particular contacts.

The image can be added to the profile by the user or it can be automatically extracted from a communication with the person or from a website or profile page belonging to or about the person . For example if a social network screen name or URL for the person is known an image from the person s social network profile page can be extracted and used as the image . In another example if instant message communications with the person include an icon that identifies the person this instant message icon can be extracted and used as the image .

The profile can include communication statistics about communications involving the person . These communication statistics can include the statistics as previously described for . In the example shown in one of the communication statistics displayed is a graph showing what times of day communications are received from the person and the relative volume received from the person at each time of day. This can help the user to determine when or how quickly the person will respond to a new communication from the user. For example if the user lives in the United States and the person lives in Germany most of the communications received from the person may occur between 5 00 am and 10 00 am of the user s local time. The graph can easily display this information so that the user can determine when to reasonably expect a response to a recent communication from the person .

Other communication statistics displayed in the profile in include the total number of communications received from the person the total number of communications sent to the person and a rank . The rank can be the rank of the person compared to all other persons that the user communicates with. The rank can be based for example on total communications exchanged total number of attachments exchanged total number of communications sent total number of communications received length of communications or importance of communications.

Communication statistics can be displayed as graphs or charts as shown in or as text. In some implementations statistics can be displayed in the profile or in an additional panel or pop up window as fun facts . For example when viewing a profile for someone named Matt Miller the profile can display a message that reads Matt s birthday is next week . In another example a pop up bubble with the message Your last communication with Matt was 21 days ago can be displayed. In another example a panel can display a message reading You send Matt 20 times as many messages as he sends you. 

Another example of a fun fact that can be displayed is Matt is your 5most e mailed contact . Another example of a fun fact that can be displayed is your most e mailed contact is Steve. . Another example of a fun fact that can be displayed is the fastest responder to your communications is Garrett. The fun facts can include any combination of communication statistics communication information contact information or contact statistics.

In some implementations communication statistics can be shared with other persons. For example the user can choose to share communication statistics with the person . The person will then be able to view communication statistics about his or her communications with the user. In some implementations the user can indicate that one or more persons are trusted contacts. Communication statistics can be automatically shared with all persons indicated as trusted contacts. Other information such as calendar information contact information or contact network information can also be shared with trusted contacts.

The profile can include contact information . The contact information displayed can include e mail addresses telephone numbers screen names social network profile names social network profile URLs physical addresses facsimile numbers or website URLs. The contact information can be collected from a variety of sources including communications between the person and the user communications between the user and other persons e mail body text e mail meta data e mail header information e mail attachments web search engines people search engines social networks e mail clients instant messages personal web pages telephone directories scanned business card data text messages picture sharing websites video sharing websites profile pages telephone communications or customer relationship management systems. For example when the user receives an e mail from a person that person s e mail address can be added to the list of contact information for that person s profile . In another example when the user makes a phone call to a person that person s telephone number can be added to the list of contact information for that person s profile .

In some implementations contact information can be extracted from the body subject or meta data of a communication between the user and the person . For example if the user receives an e mail from the person with a signature block at the end that includes a telephone number facsimile number and screen name for the person this contact information can be extracted from the e mail and added to the list of contact information for the person s profile . In another example an e mail from a person can include an address for the person in the body of the e mail or in an attachment to the e mail this address can be extracted from the e mail or attachment and added to the list of contact information for that person s profile . In another example the person can leave a social network post for the user telling the user the person s instant message screen name this screen name can be added to the list of contact information for the person s profile .

In some implementations contact information for the person can be extracted from a communication from a third party. For example the user can receive an e mail from Bill that contains the text Mary s cell phone number is 608 555 5353 . This phone number can be extracted from Bill s e mail and added to the list of contact information for Mary s profile . In another example the user can receive an e mail with an attachment that contains a list of telephone numbers e mail addresses and office numbers for everyone in the user s office. The telephone number e mail address and office number for each person listed on the attachment can be extracted and added to the list of contact information for the profiles of each person listed on the attachment.

Contact information can be extracted from multiple sources including multiple e mail clients multiple web mail systems multiple instant message clients multiple telephone numbers multiple social networks or multiple web pages.

In some implementations contact information can be collected using search engines telephone directories or people search engines. Search criteria can include e mail addresses names screen names social network profile names phone numbers personal website URLs social network profile URLs facsimile numbers or physical addresses. For example a search of a telephone directory or people search engine for Rex Banner can return a telephone number for Rex Banner. This telephone number can then be added to the list of contact information for Rex Banner s profile . In another example a people search or web search for the e mail address alewis example.com can return a URL for a social network profile for Adam Lewis. The name Adam Lewis can then be associated with the e mail address alewis example.com in a profile . In addition the social network profile URL and social network screen name for Adam Lewis can be added to the list of contact information for Adam Lewis s profile . Furthermore additional contact information that is listed on the social network profile for Adam Lewis such as additional e mail addresses phone numbers instant message screen names etc. can be extracted from the social network profile and added to the list of contact information for Adam Lewis s profile .

In another example a web search or person search for a person can return a photo or video sharing website profile for the person. The URL or screen name for the person s photo or video sharing website profile can be added to the list of contact information for the person s profile . In addition the photo or video sharing website may contain additional contact information for the person that can be extracted and added to the list of contact information for the person s profile .

In another example contact information for the person can include an e mail address jertel examplecompanyltd.com . A web search can be performed to identify the website associated with the e mail extension examplecompanyltd.com . For example this e mail extension can be associated with a company called Example Company ltd. . The website for Example Company ltd. can then be searched for information about the person . The website may include a profile page for the person that includes contact information that can be added to the list of contact information for the person s profile . In addition the URL for the profile page can be added to the list of contact information for the person s profile .

In some implementations the address for a person can be used to refine the search results for that person by constricting the results to information about persons in a specific geographic area. For example if a search is being performed for information on a person with a common name such as Bill Johnson and Bill Johnson s address is known the search results can be refined by restricting the results to information about person s named Bill Johnson in the city of the known address. In some implementations other information about a person can be used to refine search results for that person.

In some implementations contact information can be extracted from a shared network drive or through a secure connection. In some implementations contact information can be automatically shared between systems. For example the person can elect to share contact information with all people in a trusted network such as all people with e mail extensions from the same company. A computer belonging to the person can then automatically send contact information to all trusted people. If the user is in the network of trusted people the person s contact information will automatically be shared with a computer or system belonging to the user.

In some implementations contact information for the person can be manually added or removed from the profile by the user. In some implementations contact information for the person can be manually added or removed from the profile by the person or by a third party. In some implementations the user can choose which contact information for each person is displayed in that person s profile.

In some implementations when a mouse cursor or other selection tool is hovered over indicates a piece of contact information in the list of contact information a pop up bubble or other indicator can be displayed which indicates the source from which the piece of contact information was received or extracted. For example if a phone number has been extracted from an e mail a hover bubble can be displayed which shows the e mail or a portion of the e mail where the phone number was extracted with the extracted info highlighted or demarcated in some way.

In some implementations the user can be allowed to validate contact information in the list of contact information . Validated contact information can be indicated as validated and un validated contact information can be indicated as un validated. For example if a phone number for the person is extracted from an e mail the user can look at the phone number to determine if it is indeed the correct phone number for the person . If the user believes that the phone number is correct the user can choose to validate the phone number. The phone number can then be displayed along with an indication that it has been validated such as with a check mark icon or text that reads valid . If the user is unsure if the phone number is correct or has not taken the time to validate the phone number the phone number can be displayed with an indication that it has not been validated such as with a question mark icon or the text not validated .

In some implementations presence of the person can be indicated for some or all of the contact information on the list of contact information . For example an indicator next to a person s instant message screen name can indicated if the person is currently logged onto the related instant message network. In another example an indicator next to a person s social network screen name or URL can indicate if the person is currently logged onto the related social network or if the person has made a recent update to his or her social network profile. In another example an indicator next to a person s e mail address can indicate if the person has put up an away message or out of the office message.

In some implementations the profile can display information about the person s current location. If the person is in possession of a GPS unit GPS enabled phone or other location detection device the person can choose to share his or her location information. There are several services that allow a person to share location information with other people. The person can choose to share his or her location information with the user. The profile can then display the current location of the person . This location information can be displayed as an address map coordinates or a graphic of a map with an icon to indicate the person s present location.

Other information about the person that can be displayed on the profile can include birthday gender age job title employer universities attended family information or other biographical data. Information from Customer Relationship Management Systems CRMs about or related to the person can also be displayed in the profile . Information about calendar items or scheduled meetings related to the person or related to a communication can also be displayed as part of the profile .

In some implementations information from one or more websites can be displayed as a chronological feed of information in the profile . This information can be queried on the web via one or more search engines or from one or more specific websites through established associations between the person and the one or more websites. For example this information can be found by general searching people searching or querying websites where it has been established that the person is generating content or is the subject of content on the website. Search terms for these searches can include e mail addresses names screen names social network profile names phone numbers personal website URLs social network profile URLs or physical addresses. Information that is extracted from communications with the person can also be used as search criteria.

The profile can include a schedule time link . The user can click on interact with the schedule time link to send a communication to the person to request a meeting or to send the user s schedule to the person . For example clicking on the schedule time link can cause an e mail to be automatically composed that is addressed to the person that contains all of the times over the course of the next week that the user is available during business hours. This schedule information can be extracted from a calendar associated with an e mail client web mail account social network account instant messaging program telephone personal digital assistant PDA or website belonging to the user or associated with the user. In addition schedule information can be extracted from a calendar stored on a computer network drive or other data storage location belonging to or associated with the user. In one implementation clicking on the schedule time link can cause a communication to be sent to the person requesting schedule information from the person .

The profile can also include one or more initiate communication links . In the example shown in the initiate communication link displayed will cause an e mail addressed to the person to be automatically generated when it is clicked on. Other forms of communication that can be initiated using an initiate communication link include telephone calls instant messages text messages social network messages social network posts message board posts facsimiles or voice over IP communications. For example the profile can include a call Jen link that can cause the user s cell phone to dial Jen s phone number when clicked on. In another example the profile can include an instant message link that when clicked on can cause an instant message program to automatically open and generate an instant message addressed to a screen name of the person .

The profile can include a contact network . The contact network can include a list of contacts associated with the person . The contact network can be populated using the methods previously described in the description of . The profile can also display the total number of contacts associated with the person in the contact network . In the example shown in the contact network displayed in the profile indicates that there are 50 contacts in Jen s contact network .

Clicking on selecting or interacting with one or more contacts from the contact network can cause one or more actions to occur. In one implementation selecting a contact from the contact network can cause a profile for that contact to be displayed. In another implementation selecting one or more contacts from the contact network can cause a communication directed to the selected contacts to be initiated. For example selecting three contacts from the contact network can cause an e mail addressed to the three contacts to be generated. In another example clicking on three contacts from the contact network can cause the user s telephone to initiate a conference call with the selected contacts. In another implementation selecting one or more contacts from the contact list can cause a communication directed to the selected contacts and the person to be generated.

In some implementations selecting a contact from the contact network can cause the most recent communication or conversation thread between the user and the selected contact to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a contact from the contact network can cause the most recent communication or conversation thread involving the contact the person and the user to be displayed. In some implementations moving a mouse cursor over a contact in the contact network can cause information about the contact to be displayed. For example moving a cursor over a contact can cause a small pop up bubble to appear that displays the contact s phone number e mail address or other contact information. In some implementations contacts can be manually added or removed from the contact network by the user.

The profile can include a conversation list that includes a list of recent communications or conversation threads involving the user and the person as previously described in the description of . The conversation list can display the total number of communications or conversation threads involving the user and the person . In the example shown in the conversation list indicates that 2510 conversation threads have occurred that involved the user and the person .

Clicking on or selecting a conversation thread or communication in the conversation list can cause a more detailed summary of the conversation thread or communication to be displayed. For example selecting a conversation thread can cause a summary of one or more communications in the conversation thread to be displayed. In another example selecting a communication in the conversation list can cause a summary of the communication to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a communication in the conversation list can cause the communication to be displayed. For example selecting an e mail from the conversation list can cause the e mail to be displayed.

In another implementation selecting a conversation thread can cause the most recent communication to be received or the most recent communication to be sent in that conversation thread to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a conversation thread in the conversation list can cause the first communication in that conversation thread to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a conversation thread from the conversation list can cause a communication addressed to all of the participants of the conversation thread to be generated. For example selecting an e mail conversation thread can cause an e mail to be automatically generated that is addressed to all of the e mail addresses involved with the selected conversation thread. In some implementations communications or conversation threads can be manually added or removed from the conversations list by the user

The profile can include a files exchanged list . The files exchanged list can contain a list of files exchanged between the user and the person as previously described in the description of . For each file listed in the files exchanged list the profile can display a file name a file title an icon the time or date when the file was received the amount of time that has elapsed since the file was received the subject of the communication to which the file was attached or other information about the file. Icons displayed next to a file name or file title can indicate what type of document the file is. In the example depicted a file with the file name sturgeon 001.jpg is displayed. An icon next to the file name for the file indicates that the file is a picture file. A date next to the file name indicates that the file was received on April 23.

Clicking on or selecting a file in the files exchanged list can cause the file to open. In another implementation selecting a file can cause the communication to which the file was attached to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a file can cause a list of files with the same file name to be displayed. This allows the different versions of a document that has undergone several rounds of revisions to be reviewed and compared to each other. In another implementation selecting a file can cause a summary of the file to be generated and displayed. For example hovering a cursor over a file in the files exchanged list can cause an information bubble containing the title and first few lines of the file to be displayed. This list of files can include a time and date stamp for each version of the file so that the most recent revision can be easily identified. In some implementations files can be copied from the files exchanged list to other locations. In some implementations files can be manually added or removed from the files exchanged list by the user.

The profile can include one or more menu buttons . The menu buttons can be used to change personal settings or preferences change viewing preferences or access menus or help information. The profile can also include a minimize button that can cause the profile to minimize or close. When the minimize button is clicked or selected a minimized version of the profile that takes up less space in a viewing window can be displayed. The minimized version of the profile can include a summary of some or all of the information displayed by the profile .

The viewing panel can include one or more navigation buttons . The navigation buttons can include a profile view navigation button . The profile view navigation button can be used to return the viewing panel to a profile view so that the viewing panel displays information about the sender or recipient of a currently selected communication or another person as indicated by the user. The navigation buttons can also include a back button . The back button can be used to display a profile conversation thread or other information that was previously displayed in the viewing panel . For example if the user was previously viewing a profile for a person named Mark Wagner clicking on the back button can cause the viewing panel to display the profile for Mark Wagner. In another example if the user was previously viewing information about an e mail attachment clicking on the back button can cause the viewing panel to display the previously viewed e mail attachment information.

The navigation buttons can also display a navigation history that has lead to the current information being displayed in the viewing panel . In the example shown in the navigation buttons indicate that the user first viewed a profile for Jen Ertel. The user then viewed a profile for Jerri Clark Wagner. The user may have opened the profile for Jerri Clark Wagner by clicking on the name Jerri Clark Wagner in a contact network or list of contacts on Jen Ertel s profile or by performing a search for Jerri Clark Wagner or other information associated with Jerri Clark Wagner. The navigation buttons indicate that the user then viewed a profile for Mark Wagner. The user may have caused the current conversation thread to be displayed by clicking on a conversation thread in a conversation list similar to the conversation list from . In some implementations clicking on or selecting any of the buttons in the navigation history can cause the viewing panel to display the profile conversation thread communication communication attachment or other information associated with the selected navigation button .

The viewing panel can include a title bar . The title bar can include the type of information being displayed in the viewing panel the subject and other key information. When the information being displayed in the viewing panel is a conversation thread the title bar can indicate that a conversation is being viewed the title or subject line of the conversation thread the number of communications involved in the conversation thread the types of communications involved in the conversation thread or the number of people involved in the conversation thread. In the example shown the title bar indicates that a conversation is being viewed that the subject line of the communications in the conversation thread is dinner that there are 8 people involved in conversation thread that 18 communications are included in the conversation thread and that all 18 communications are e mails.

The viewing panel can include a summary of some or all of the communications that make up the conversation thread . Information displayed as part of the summary for each communication can include the sender of the communication the recipients of the communication the time or day that the communication was sent or received attachments to the communication the first few lines or sentences of the communication the importance of the communication or the number of recipients of the communication . For example an e mail summary indicates that the user sent an e mail in response to an e mail from Jerri 1 week ago and that 5 additional recipients were also listed on the e mail. The e mail summary also displays the first lines of the e mail sent to Jerri.

In some implementations clicking on or selecting a communication summary in the conversation thread can cause the related communication to be displayed. For example clicking on the e mail summary can cause the e mail sent from the user to Jerri to be displayed. In another example selecting a communication summary in the conversation thread can cause a profile for the sender or one or more recipients of the related communication to be displayed. In another example selecting a communication summary in the conversation thread can cause one or more attachments or a list of attachments to the related communication to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a communication summary in the conversation thread can cause a communication addressed to the sender or one or more recipients of the related communication to be automatically generated. In some implementations selecting a communication summary in the conversation thread can cause a more detailed summary for the related communication to be displayed.

The viewing panel can include a detail adjustment control . the detail adjustment control can be used to modify the amount of detail that is displayed in each communication summary in the conversation list . In one implementation adjusting the detail adjustment control can increase or decrease the number of words or lines of a body of a communication that are displayed in each communication summary. In another implementation adjusting the detail adjustment control can increase or decrease the amount of information that is displayed for each communication summary. For example the detail adjustment control can be changed to display an e mail address and phone number for each sender or recipient of each communication in the corresponding communication summary. In another example the detail adjustment control can be used to control what information is used to identify senders or recipients of communications in each communication summary. Information used to identify senders or recipients can include names nick names screen names e mail addresses telephone numbers social network profile names or company names.

In some implementations in which some or all of the communications that make up a conversation thread are telephone calls or voice over IP communications audio recordings of some or all of the telephone calls or voice over IP communications can be displayed in the conversation thread . Clicking on or selecting a telephone call or voice over IP communication in the conversation thread can cause an audio recording of the communication to play. In some implementations automatically or manually created transcripts of telephone calls or voice over IP communications that make up part or all of a conversation thread can be displayed. In some implementations a summary of a transcript of the audio communication can be displayed as part of a communication summary in the conversation thread . Clicking on or selecting a communication summary of a telephone call or voice over IP communication for which a transcript exists can cause the full transcript of the audio communication to be displayed or an audio file of the audio communication to play.

The viewing panel can include a conversation participants list . The conversation participants list can be a list of senders and recipients of the communications that make up the conversation thread . Information about each participant in the conversation thread can be displayed including name contact information number of communications initiated in the displayed conversation thread and other relevant information. The conversation participants list can also indicate the total number of participants involved in the conversation thread .

In some implementations clicking on or selecting a person listed in the conversation participants list can cause a profile for the selected person to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a person from the conversation participants list can automatically generate a communication addressed to the selected person. In another implementation selecting a person from the conversation participants list can cause all communications or summaries of communications from the current conversation thread that were initiated by the selected person to be displayed.

The viewing panel can include a files exchanged list . The files exchanged list can display a list of files that have been exchanged in the current conversation thread . For example the files exchanged list can list all of the files that have been attached to communications in the conversation thread . Clicking on or selecting a file from the files exchanged list can cause the selected file to open. In another implementation selecting a file from the files exchanged list can cause one or more communications to which the file was attached to be displayed. In another implementation selecting a file from the files exchanged list can cause one or more communication summaries for communications to which the file was attached to be displayed.

In the example depicted in the e mail address for the person is known however a phone number for the person is unknown. Clicking on the request contact information link can cause an e mail addressed to the e mail address to be automatically generated with the text Hello I don t have your phone number. Can you please send it to me. If the person responds to the automatically generated e mail with a phone number the phone number can be extracted from the e mail and displayed as part of the profile.

In some implementations where the person responds with more than one additional piece of contact information each additional piece of contact information can also be extracted and displayed as part of the profile. For example if an e mail requesting a phone number from the person is automatically generated and sent the person may send a response e mail containing both a home phone number and work phone number. Both phone numbers can be extracted from the response e mail and displayed with the work phone number and home phone number respectively indicated.

Posting a shared note can involve typing text or a hyperlink in a box in the shared notes panel . One or more files can be added to the shared note by browsing for the files in a file directory and selecting the files to be attached to the shared note. In another implementation one or more files can be added to the shared note by dragging the one or more files into the box . The one or more files dragged into the box can include files in a folder on a computer or computer network files that are attached to communications files that are listed as part of a communication summary or files that are listed in an exchanged files list.

Shared notes can be displayed as a part of a profile and can be displayed chronologically or grouped by the type of shared note or other grouping criteria. For example if a first person posts a shared note and a second person is on a list of contacts that are permitted to view shared notes posted by the first person a profile for the first person on a computer used by the second person can display the shared note from the first person as part of the profile.

In some implementations information shared in a shared note can be used to refine web searches. For example a hyperlink can be sent as part of a shared note. This hyperlink can be included in a list of search results for a subject related to the topic of the shared note. Shared notes can also be used to profile a person or group of people and their interests by analyzing common sources of information and types of information commonly shared. This can be used to target adverting or recommend sources of information.

In some implementations the shared notes panel can be a panel pop up window or pop up bubble that is separate from the profile . In some implementations the shard notes panel can be part of a conversation thread display. In some implementations the shared notes panel can be part of a viewing panel such as the viewing panel of . In some implementations files that are shared using a shared notes system such as the one described can be stored and retrieved upon request by for example visiting the file location in a web browser or when a user of the system views a profile of a contact who shared the file.

The computer can extract data from the communication about the first user. This data can be used to make a profile similar to the profile shown in . Data extracted from other communications with the first user can also be used to create a profile for the first user. Data that is extracted from communications with the first user can be used to query websites search engines person search directories and other sources of information for additional information about the first user that can be used to create a profile. Information from communications that can be used as search criteria include names screen names social network profile names social network profile URLs physical addresses website URLs e mail addresses or telephone numbers. Information that is collected as a result of these queries can be used in future searches to identify additional information that can be used to create a profile.

For example the computer can receive an e mail sent by the first user from the computer . The computer can perform a search using a search engine with the first user s e mail address as the search criteria. The search engine can return a search result that includes the first user s phone number. This phone number can be displayed as part of a profile for the first user. The search engine can also return the URL for or link to a personal website belonging to the first user. The personal website may contain additional information about the first user that can be used to create a profile such as additional contact information or biographical information.

In another example the e mail address belonging to the first user may include an extension for a company. The computer can perform a search using the search engine with the e mail extension as the search criteria. A result returned by the search can be a company website. The company website can be searched to reveal a profile page for the first user on the company website. The profile page may contain additional information about the first user that can be used to create a profile such as additional contact information or biographical information.

In another example the computer can perform a search using a person search directory with the first user s name or other contact information as the search criteria. The person search directory can return search results with additional contact information and other information that can be used to create a profile for the first user.

In another example the computer can receive an e mail sent by the first user from the computer . The e mail can contain a social network profile name for the first user. The computer can extract this social network profile name from the e mail and use it to access a social network webpage . The social network webpage can contain additional contact information and other information that can be extracted and used to create a profile for the first user. The social network webpage can also contain additional contacts that can be associated with the first user in a profile. For example persons on the friends list of the social network webpage or persons who have posted comments or messages on the social network webpage can be listed as contacts in a contact network for the first user.

In another example a search performed using the search engine can return a URL or link for a photo or video sharing website on which the first user has a profile. Additional contact information or biographical information that can be extracted and used to create a profile for the first user. For example a profile belonging to the first user on a video sharing website may include an instant message screen name for the first user. This screen name can be extracted and displayed as part of a profile for the first user.

Information extracted from communications between the first user and second user can also be used to update profile information on a social network webpage or other webpage. For example the computer can detect that the second user system has primarily used e mail address david foo.com in recent communications while the second user s profile on the social network webpage shows his email address as david bar.com . The computer can share the second user s new e mail address with the social network webpage and the social network can automatically update the second user s info or suggest he update it based on this changed behavior recorded by the computer .

Information from travel websites and on line retailers can also be extracted and displayed as part of a profile. For example an e mail containing information about a flight itinerary can be received by the computer . The computer can extract a flight number or other information about a flight from the e mail. the computer can then query a travel website using the flight number or other flight information as search criteria. Information about the flight such as expected departure time expected arrival time expected delays weather in the destination city weather in the departure city or any changes to the flight can be displayed as part of a profile.

In another example an e mail containing information about an item or service that the second user is interested in purchasing can be received by the computer . The computer can query one or more search engines websites or on line retailers to determine which retailer or website has the best price or currently has the item in stock or the service available. This information can then be displayed as part of the profile.

Information from mapping web sites and location tracking servers can also be extracted and displayed as part of a profile. For example the first user can own a GPS unit cell phone or other device that is capable of transmitting the first user s current physical location. A location tracking server can receive this transmission and allow other users to access the first user s current location information. If the second user has permission to view the location information for the first user the computer can access the location tracking server using the computer network to receive location information about the first user. This location information can be displayed as part of a profile.

The computer can also access a maps and directions website to create a map of the first user s current location or to generate directions to the first user s current location. The map or directions can be displayed as part of a profile for the first user. The maps and directions website can also be used to generate a map or directions to one or more known addresses for the first user such as a work address or home address. The map or directions can be displayed as part of a profile for the first user.

The system described above can be extended using additional personal and public data that exists outside of the communication application. For example the additional data can be obtained from the World Wide Web or from other data sources such as databases on the local machine or some other private data stores. Such access may be provided using a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wireless network or any other network. In some implementations the additional data obtained can be selected based on its relationship to the person with which the user of the communication application is interacting e.g. the sender or a participant in an email .

As depicted in the web data area includes three areas a social networks area a CRM area and an addresses area . Areas can be used to display profile data obtained outside the system for the person .

The social networks area can identify any social network information e.g. MySpace Facebook etc. associated with the person . In some implementations the initial information displayed in the area can be a summary. Additional social network information for a particular entry in the area can be obtained by the user such as by clicking a link .

The CRM area can display for example any information related to the person that can be obtained from various Customer Relationship Management CRM systems. Such information can include customer information supplier information marketing campaigns events lead tracking management contract tracking management sales pipeline forecasting analysis call center tracking etc.

The addresses area can include the addresses related to the person . For example addresses can include the person s current address mailing address past addresses and so on. In some implementations the user can click on a map link to graphically display a map to the location identified by the address.

Other types of data can be displayed in the web data area in addition to the areas depicted. In some implementations the user can have control over which types of data to display and when. For example configurable settings can be set by the user that specify that social network CRM and address information be included automatically whenever the user is viewing information for someone who sent a message.

In some implementations the additional data obtained from outside the communication medium can be related to the communication medium sender recipient and or participant based on name email address screen name etc. The system can display the data in an email client web browser or stand alone application. In some implementations the data ban be included and displayed in the profile or in an area adjacent to the profile . The data can include public or private web based data such as social network data webmail data phone numbers addresses search engine results etc. Other non web public or private data sources can include customer relationship management CRM enterprise resource planning ERP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP etc.

In some implementations access to the data can be provided by way of application programming interfaces APIs or other software related methods. In some implementations data can be pulled from web sources or other third party data repositories and can be displayed as it relates to a person in the profile .

The user of the communication system can initiate access of web based profile data in various ways. For example the user can explicitly click on or otherwise select a message from a specific sender. In another example the user can select the sender s name for use in a search of data outside the communication. In yet another example the user can select the person s name from a set of person search results. In all such cases the communication system can use the sender s name to access related data from external sources.

Examples of applications where this data can be displayed as part of a profile include a desktop email client e.g. Outlook Thunderbird etc webmail e.g. Yahoo gmail etc. CRM application e.g. Salesforce Seibel etc. IM client e.g. AIM Skype etc. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP systems smart phone applications address books or other applications which contain information relating to people.

The data displayed in each of these communication applications can include data from that communication application or data from other communication applications. For example the profile displayed in the AOL instant messenger client can include data from the Outlook email application.

Whether data is public or private can limit access to some data. For instance the data displayed can be data that is available without restriction to the public. In other instances data can be private and only available to a subset of the public based on some login or other identification credentials. In some implementations the profile containing web based data and data from other databases can be displayed in a separate application solely for this purpose. For example the separate application can be opened individually or can be opened from within the communication application or opened implicitly e.g. automatically based on actions within a communication application.

In one example implementation the web based profile data can include any or all of various content items such as social network data person search engine data search engine data other email source data customer relationship management CRM systems Web feeds and so on. Examples of these content items are described in detail below. Alternatively other groupings of content items are possible including subsets of the content items discussed as well as additional content items.

When social network data is included with the web based profile data the user of the system can choose to integrate data from one or many social networks. The system can request the login credentials for these selected social networks. Such credentials can for example limit the user to accessing the personal data of just individuals or groups of individuals whose data the user is authorized to see. For example the system can limit the user to see personal data when the user is listed as a friend of the individual. In another example identification of profile data can include searching social network sites associated with the party e.g. Matt is a member of MySpace .

In some implementations the system can alias the subject of the profile to social network data using any available contact information including but not limited to subject name email addresses physical addresses phone numbers and instant messaging IM user names. The contact information of the most common communication source between the participant and the subject can be queried first. If no results are found then the second most common communication alias can be used and so on. If the queried network returns multiple results then the results can be refined by querying other communication aliases within the results.

Network data can also be filtered by its uniqueness. For example the name Matt Jones is a very common name but Matt Jones s Flickr user name e.g. monkeypants25 can be uncommon. The results of a search on Flickr for monkeypants25 can produce more accurate results than a search for Matt Jones. In some implementations the system can prioritize a unique occurrence higher in the case of a common query with a myriad of results.

In some implementations when the subject is uniquely identified in the social network the social network data can be queried from a database or website and presented in the profile or other display mechanism. This data can be stored by the system or queried real time. The social network data can include messaging on the social network pictures videos interests biographical information lists of friends and any other data shared on a social network.

If the subject doesn t have an established connection to the participant on a social network then the social network database or web site can be queried with the subject s contact aliases to identify him as a member. Once a unique match is made the participant can be provided with a link to add the friend. The participant can also be provided with a link to navigate to the social network web page. The participant can also be shown data that is publicly available on the social network.

Data from websites and social networks can become part of the data presented in the system when working with any form of communication medium. The presentation can include seeing a social network profile picture for a person when you receive a message from the person seeing a Twitter update from a person when you get a phone call from the person or being presented with a person s location data when you get a message from the person. This is not a limiting list. Any data from the web and social networks can be integrated with any communication medium and can be presented intelligently based on senders recipients people mentioned in a communication medium email addresses contained in a communication medium or topics discussed in a communication medium.

In some implementations the participant can update the data in his profile or on the social network from the system . For example based on information e.g. a new phone number or address received in an email from a sender the participant can update the sender s personal information.

The data from the system and its associated communication mediums can be used to improve the accuracy and relevance of data that exists on a social network. For example if David is using the system and he begins primarily using email address david foo.com while the social network shows his email address as david bar.com the system can share this data with the social network and the social network can automatically update David s info or suggest he update it based on this changed behavior recorded by the system .

When person search engine data is included with the web based profile data the participant can choose to integrate data from one or many people related search engines e.g. ZoomInfo Spock etc. . To search for person search engine data the system can query the people search engine with the subject s name email address physical address phone number IM user name or other pieces of contact information. Information from the resulting people search can be displayed in the profile or in other locations or context of the system . The information from the people search engine can include biographical information associated web pages jobs titles employers etc.

In some implementations participants can choose to confirm a people related search engine result for their own name. This data can be shared among a trusted network to refine the accuracy of people search results for all participants.

In some implementations data from the system or its associated communication mediums can be exported to people related search engine databases to refine data and more accurately produce results for users. For example if the system shares the information that David changed his email address from David FOO.com to David BAR.com then the people related search engine results can be updated to say that David is now involved with company BAR. Data from people related search engines can be collected into a centralized or distributed data stores for further access mining cross validation or redundancy.

When search engine data is included with the web based profile data search results from search engines such as Google Yahoo MSN etc. can also be included in the system and integrated with the profile or other parts of the system . The search queries can include various query terms or parameters such as names of communication medium senders or receivers email addresses IM screen names phone numbers physical addresses IP addresses cities or locations. The query parameters can be identified explicitly in the communication or implicitly through the origin of the message text content of communication mediums etc.

In some implementations data from the system and its related communication mediums can be used to improve the ranking and relevance of search results from search engines. For example if the system shares the geographic location of the participant with a search engine the search engine can provide better localized results. Data from the search engine s results or from web locations pointed to by the search results can be stored and or aggregated at a central or distributed storage location or displayed in profiles alongside email IM communications or web pages.

Other email source data can be included with the web based profile data. In some implementations the system can query other email sources including emails contact information and related people from other email sources. Email sources can include email clients e.g. Mac mail Entourage Thunderbird etc. and webmail e.g. gmail Yahoo mail Hotmail etc. . Each source can be aliased to a unique contact of the participant and added to their corresponding section of the profile or put in a section by themselves which is dedicated to an individual email source.

In some implementations the system can be a repository and display mechanism for data from multiple email clients multiple webmail systems multiple IM clients multiple phone numbers or for multiple people. The information displayed can be organized such as by date type of communication importance ranking and so on.

Customer relationship management CRM system data can be included with the web based profile data. For example data from one or more CRM systems can be queried and displayed in the profile as it relates to the subject e.g. subject of the email . The subject can be aliased to a contact in a CRM system via for example any contact field including email addresses phone numbers physical addresses IM screen names etc.

In some implementations CRM data can be contained in a separate field or elements of the CRM data can be placed in their related fields such as contact information conversations etc. Data from the system and associated communication mediums can also be exported for incorporation into the CRM database or data collection systems.

Web feed data can also be included with the web based data. For example information can be queried on the web via a search engine or on a specific website through established associations between the subject. Each of these mediums can be displayed as a chronological feed of information in the profile . This web data can be found for example by general search by people search or by querying websites where it has been established that the subject is generating content or the subject of content on the web site or web page.

In some implementations the contact information used to extract this data for web feeds can include but is not limited to email address IM screen name social network profile associated website and other contact details. Data that relates to information extracted from the body of an email or communication medium can be used to query the web for related data. Methods such as Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency TFIDF can be applied to find unique elements of one communication medium as it relates to an entire communication corpus.

Examples of email body information includes location names people names International Standard Book Numbers ISBNs web page links shipping e.g. UPS DHL FedEx etc. tracking numbers Amazon receipt numbers flight tracking numbers etc. Data sources can include but aren t limited to Facebook Linkedin Spock Zoominfo Twitter Flickr Photobucket Netflix Newegg Amazon Expedia Orbitz Travelocity YouTube Lijit Ebay MySpace last.fm iLike etc.

Different types of web data can be displayed in the profile . For instance a participant can make an action e.g. read an email etc. that renders him viewing a participant s e.g. the sender David s profile. For example through an integration with Linkedin David s job title company and network location can be pulled from Linkedin and displayed in the profile . In another example through the use of Flickr s API David s most recent picture uploads to Flickr can be displayed in the profile . In yet another example through an integration with Amazon.com David s most recent book purchases can be displayed in the profile . These are just a few examples of how several different types of data can be displayed in the profile .

In some implementations data can be read only. In some implementations some or all of the data but can edited changed or added through interactions with the user. Such interactions can update the data at its source such as data stored on Linkedin. In some implementations only a copy of the data can be updated preserving the original data on the source. For example if the participant e.g. David s boss is viewing David s profile and job title from an integrated CRM database then the participant can change David s job title in the system and the change can propagate to the CRM database.

Interactions with the data can occur in various ways. For example a participant can interact with the data in a visual area within the people profile such as in a module in a sidebar in a native email client. In another example the participant can use a visual area to open a third party website or separate application e.g. though an API to interact with data related to the person whose profile is currently being viewed.

In some implementations the web or API data can be displayed in a prioritized manner. One example of prioritizing the data can be based on the date of most recent update with new information. An example of sorting the data can be based on the number of times data from that source of web data was declared interesting by the user by voting on it selecting it etc.

The web or API data can be displayed in one list from multiple web API data sources or can be displayed in separate areas one for each source of web data. In some implementations the participant can configure which sources of data they are interested in viewing in the people profile areas. These configurations can be configured differently for each contact or group of contacts or can be consistent across the people profiles for all contacts.

In some implementations the web or API data can be pulled real time from the data sources or the data can be cached in a local or remote store and displayed from that location. The data can be added to the store after it is first queried and can be updated at a regular interval or asynchronously.

The system can have multiple identifiers for a single person. Identifiers can include name several email addresses instant message screen names user names on various services phone numbers physical addresses etc. The system can collect these identifiers by associating their common appearance in materials relating to a person. For example two emails have been received one from MATT.Jones example.com and MJones example.com and the name on both of these accounts is Matt Jones and the participant has only ever communicated with one Matt Jones. The system can then associate both of these email addresses to the same Matt Jones. Then when querying web data or other APIs data related to the email address MATT.Jones example.com and MJones example.com can both be displayed in the profile for Matt Jones.

Stage collects historical communication data from the communication system. For example historical data from communications such as e mails instant messages phone calls text messages Internet message board postings social network messages or comments or voice over IP communications can be collected. The historical data can include information regarding communications with other individuals and statistics on those communications. Statistics can include for example times of communications dates of communications types of communications volume of communications length of communications or speed of responses.

Stage collects personal data that is available directly from the communication system. For example if the communication system is an email client the personal data can include the names of email senders and receivers their email addresses other contact information etc. Such information can obtained updated and stored continuously over time by the communication system and available for use at all times.

Historical communication data and personal data can also be collected from web search engines people search engines social networks e mail clients personal web pages telephone directories scanned business card data picture sharing websites video sharing websites profile pages travel websites on line retailers or customer relationship management systems.

In some implementations identifying the personal or public data can include performing a search such as an Internet search. In some implementations the search can include a local search of a device executing the communication system such as the system .

Stage identifies parties in the communications for which additional personal data can exist outside the communication system. For example parties can include senders and receivers of messages e.g. email IM etc. as well as people mentioned within the message such as in the email message s subject line and or the message body.

Stage collects personal or public personal data that is unrelated to and otherwise inaccessible to the communication system. The personal or public personal data collected can be related to the parties e.g. message senders receivers etc. identified in Stage . The sources of the personal or public personal data can include any or all of various content items such as social network data person search engine data search engine data other email source data customer relationship management CRM systems Web feeds and so on.

The system can collect Web based and other personal or public personal data in various automatic ways. For example the system may automatically detect user inputs on Web browsers and attempt to search for personal data based on the user designated social network sites or sites that the system suspects to contain useful data. In other examples the system can use APIs links etc. to access data from other websites or other data repositories outside of the system . Personal or public data gathered from social network sites can include for example sites of which the party is a member.

Stage deposits the collected data into a repository. For example the collected personal data can be stored in a database on a user s computer. The collected personal data can also be stored on a network server a web server a removable storage device or as part of an e mail client or other communication client.

Stage presents historical communication data. For instance the communication data presented can include the conversation list providing a historical record of conversations involving a particular person. The communication data presented can also include the files exchanged list . Such historical communication data can be obtained directly from the system .

Stage presents personal data obtained from an underlying communication system. For example the system can display personal data that includes a message sender s e mail address his phone number his contact network etc. The personal data display can be obtained directly from repositories of the communication system such as from an email client.

Stage presents personal data obtained outside of the communication system. For instance stage can present the data that is obtained in stage of the process . In some implementations the additional data can be displayed for example in one or more windows within an email client or communication system such as adjacent to the profile . In some implementations the additional data can be displayed by a stand alone application such as one that executes in parallel with the system . In some implementations the additional data can be displayed in a web browser.

The timing of the display of personal or public data can be based upon a group of predetermined implicit and or explicit triggers. For example the system can automatically access social network or other data related to a particular person while the user is composing a message to that person. In some implementations the system can access social network information when the user selects a message from the party clicks on the person s name or in some other way initiates a request for the data. In one example social network information from MySpace can be displayed if the user clicks on a particular link in a message or on a particular link in a list of social network links displayed adjacent to the message.

In some implementations various triggers can exist. For example display of personal or public data can be triggered when the user initiates a communication e.g. email text message etc. with another party. In another example the trigger mechanism can be retrieving a communication in the communication system from or to the party.

Stage presents historical communication and personal data. For example the data can include fields and displays shown in . The data can be obtained from the repositories directly available to the system . The data can also include personal or public personal data obtained from other sources such as social network data person search engine data search engine data other email source data customer relationship management CRM systems Web feeds and so on.

In some implementations the data presented can be organized by source. For example data from social network sites can be organized in one or more separate windows while CRM can be displayed in one or more other areas.

The data presented can include any computer renderable object such as text videos images music sounds etc.

Stage monitors user behavior. For example a system implementing the method can track the mouse movements keyboard strokes or mouse clicks of a user of the system or active windows or mouse locations displayed on a monitor or other display device of the system. The user s behavior can be monitored to determine if a user has opened viewed read or composed a communication such as an e mail. The user s behavior can also be monitored to determine if the user has performed a search clicked on a particular item or selected a particular item.

Stage presents data from the repository in response to user behavior. For example the system can display initial information when it is initiated such as when the user starts the application. In some implementations the system can be configured to start automatically such as when the user starts an email client. In another example the user can perform an action to choose other data for display or to sort the data already displayed and so on. Any user behavior can result in the system displaying new or different data from the repository.

Stage presents data from outside sources in response to user behavior. For example if the system determines that the user s actions constitute a request for person data derived outside of the system the system can obtain and present that data. For example the data can include personal or public personal data obtained from other sources such as social network data person search engine data search engine data other email source data customer relationship management CRM systems Web feeds and so on.

Stage performs operations on the data based on the user s behavior. For example based on user clicks selections or particular items text entry etc. the system can open and close emails perform user specified searches display user specified data re sort displayed data etc.

In some implementations the operations can include accessing a link associated with the personal or public personal data. For example the system can include a MySpace link with personal data retrieved from MySpace and displayed to the user. For instance the link can identify the source of the information as MySpace. Upon the user clicking the link the system can access source material associated with the displayed personal data.

The apparatus methods flow diagrams and structure block diagrams described in this patent document may be implemented in computer processing systems including program code comprising program instructions that are executable by the computer processing system. Other implementations may also be used. Additionally the flow diagrams and structure block diagrams described in this patent document which describe particular methods and or corresponding acts in support of steps and corresponding functions in support of disclosed structural means may also be utilized to implement corresponding software structures and algorithms and equivalents thereof.

This written description sets forth the best mode of the invention and provides examples to describe the invention and to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. This written description does not limit the invention to the precise terms set forth. Thus while the invention has been described in detail with reference to the examples set forth above those of ordinary skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the examples without departing from the scope of the invention.

