---

title: Sliding antenna apparatus
abstract: Various embodiments of a mobile computing device are described. In one embodiment, the mobile computing device comprises an internal antenna system and a first housing coupled to a second housing by one or more electrically conductive sliding portions, the one or more electrically conductive sliding portions to operate as radiating arms for the internal antenna system. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08451179&OS=08451179&RS=08451179
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08451179
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081029
---
A wireless device typically operates using a radio transmitter receiver transceiver and one or more antennas. Antenna orientation for a given wireless device is an important design consideration and is often limited by strict performance constraints. For example some external antenna placements may expose the antenna to potential damage and may provide reduced performance or no performance at all when in a retracted or closed position. In addition some internal antenna placements may be undesirable since they may increase the overall size and shape of the wireless device. Such problems may be further exacerbated for those wireless devices with smaller form factors such as a mobile telephone or handheld computer. Consequently there may be a need for improvements in antenna design.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Various embodiments may be directed to an internal antenna and sliding antenna architecture that may potentially improve the performance of a wireless device by improving one or more characteristics such as a size shape form factor power consumption battery life transceiver operations signal quality weight and so forth. Accordingly a user may realize enhanced products and services.

In various embodiments the internal antenna and sliding antenna architecture may comprise an antenna system which may provide advantages in terms of industrial design usability and reliability for low profile small and compact wireless device designs. In various implementations the antenna architecture may employ a plurality of sliding portions acting as radiating elements for the internal antenna system. Because an electrically conductive sliding portion may have a much larger physical dimension than a conventional internal antenna the internal antenna and sliding antenna architecture may provide a wireless device with a larger antenna system without requiring extra physical volume. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

As shown the wireless device may comprise a first housing and a second housing . The housings and may include one or more materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass and so forth suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of the wireless device . In various embodiments the housing may comprise an upper housing and the housing may comprise a lower housing. In some embodiments the housings and may be connected by one or more electrically conductive sliding portions and . In such embodiments the upper housing and lower housing may be configured to slide relative to each other. Referring to the upper housing and the lower housing are shown in a relatively closed position. Referring to the upper housing and the lower housing are shown in a relatively open position. While a particular arrangement may be shown by way of example it can be appreciated that the housings and may be arranged in other ways.

In various embodiments the electrically conductive sliding portions may comprise one or more metal tracks on the first housing and one or more metal tracks on the second housing that connect or couple the housings and . The one or more metal tracks made consist of any metal material suitable for conducting electricity and also suitable for securing the upper housing to the lower housing . In various embodiments the one or more tracks may be made from a material other than metal and still fall within the described embodiments. For example the tracks may be made from a material selected to reduce friction when the tracks slide relative to each other to reduce system cost or to reduce system weight. In some embodiments the tracks may be made from Teflon for example and a conductive path may be created between the upper and lower housings via strategically placed clips fingers or other conductive elements placed on or near the tracks. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The one or more tracks of the first housing and the one or more tracks of the second housing may be engaged to enable the first and second housings to slide relative to each other. In some embodiments each of the one or more tracks may comprise non linear or curved tracks creating a radius when the first and second housings slide relative to each other. In some embodiments the tracks may comprise linear or other shaped tracks and still fall within the described embodiments.

The one or more tracks may comprise spring clips spring connectors fingers or any other suitable device to maintain electrical connectivity between the one or more tracks when the first and second housings slide relative to each other in various embodiments. The spring clips spring connectors or fingers may be located in overlapping portions of the one or more metal tracks in some embodiments. For example the one or metal tracks may comprise overlapping portions that lock the tracks together and resist movement perpendicular to the length of the tracks while allowing movement of the tracks relative to each other in a direction parallel to the length of the tracks. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the wireless device may comprise an internal antenna system configured as part of the sliding antenna system. The internal antenna system may comprise a directional internal antenna system arranged to reduce radiation in an undesired direction and focus radiation in a desired direction. In various embodiments the internal antenna system may be arranged to transmit and or receive electrical energy in accordance with a given set of performance or design constraints as desired for a particular implementation. During transmission the internal antenna system may accept energy from a transmission line and radiate this energy into space via a wireless shared media. During reception the internal antenna system may gather energy from an incident wave received over wireless shared media and provide this energy to a corresponding transmission line. The amount of power radiated from or received by the internal antenna system is typically described in terms of gain. In addition the antenna system may operate in accordance with a desired Voltage Standing Wave Ratio VSWR value. For example VSWR relates to the impedance match of an antenna feed point with a feed line or transmission line of a communications device. To radiate radio frequency FR energy with minimum loss or to pass along received RF energy to a wireless receiver with minimum loss impedance may be matched to the impedance of a transmission line or feed point of a PCB.

The internal antenna system may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. For example the internal antenna system may allow the wireless device to operate in the 824 894 Megahertz MHz frequency band for GSM operations the 1850 1990 MHz frequency band for Personal Communications Services PCS operations the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations the 824 860 MHz frequency band for NAMPS operations the 1710 2170 MHz frequency band for WCDMA UMTS operations and other frequency bands. This may be desirable since the wireless device may be compatible with multiple wireless data multimedia and cellular telephone systems. In addition the internal antenna system may be used to implement various spatial diversity techniques to improve communication of wireless signals across one or more frequency bands of wireless shared media. In various embodiments for example the internal antenna system may be designed for Evolution Data Optimized EVDO diversity at both the 800 MHz band cellular and the 1900 MHz PCS . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the internal antenna system may comprise a first ground plane and a first motherboard in the first housing and a second ground plane and a second motherboard in the second housing . In some embodiments the first ground plane the first motherboard the second ground plane or the second motherboard may be coupled to the one or more electrically conductive sliding portions to enhance the antenna architecture for wireless device . For example the first ground plane the first motherboard the second ground plane or the second motherboard may act as radiating arms for the internal antenna system in addition to the electrically conductive sliding portions acting as radiating arms for the antenna system. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The wireless device may comprise a plurality of motherboards such as a first motherboard and a second motherboard . As shown the upper housing may comprise the first motherboard and the lower housing may comprise the second motherboard . In various embodiments the first motherboard and or the second motherboard may comprise a printed circuit board PCB . The PCB may comprise materials such as FR4 Rogers R04003 and or Roger RT Duroid for example and may include one or more conductive traces via structures and or laminates. The PCB also may include a finish such as Gold Nickel Tin or Lead. In various implementations the PCB may be fabricated using processes such as etching bonding drilling and plating.

Conductive traces of the PCB may be formed by chemical etching metal etching and other similar techniques. The traces may have any suitable pattern or geometry tuned for various operating frequencies. For example the traces may comprise one or more center lines and or branch lines. Phase lines and or various chip components such as resistors capacitors or inductors may be used among the center lines and or branch lines. The different elements may be contacted or parasitic.

The wireless device may comprise a plurality of ground planes such as a first ground plane and a second ground plane . As shown the first ground plane and the second ground plane may be configured as part of the first motherboard and the second motherboard . In some embodiments the ground planes may be formed separate from the motherboards and still fall within the described embodiments.

The first ground plane and the second ground plane may comprise for example a layer of copper or other plating metal connected to ground. In various embodiments the first motherboard and or the second motherboard may comprise a multi layer PCB including one or more signal planes power planes and ground planes. The actual number of layers and or planes and the length of each individual layer and or plane may vary for a particular implementation.

In various embodiments the ground planes motherboards may be coupled within the wireless device . As shown in for example the ground planes motherboards may be coupled through the electrically conductive sliding portions to form a continuous electrical connection including both halves of wireless device . In various implementations the coupling may comprise one or more coupled transmission lines wires cables circuitry semiconductor materials and or other medium capable of carrying signals.

In various embodiments the electrically conductive sliding portions the first motherboard and the second motherboard may comprise or form part of an antenna system for the wireless device . In various implementations by virtue of the physics of antenna design and electromagnetic theory and the coupling of the first ground plane to the second ground plane the first motherboard and the second motherboard may act as radiating elements of the internal antenna system along with the electrically conductive sliding portion radiating elements. For example the first motherboard may act as a first radiator arm of the internal antenna system and the second motherboard may act as a second radiating arm of the internal antenna system along with the radiating arms of the electrically conductive sliding portions . Because the electrically conductive sliding elements along with the ground planes and or the motherboards may have larger physical dimensions than conventional internal antennas the wireless device may comprise a relatively larger antenna system without requiring extra physical volume.

As shown sliding portions and may comprise different length sliding portions than sliding portions and . For example sliding portions and restrict the distance in which upper housing and lower housing can slide relative to one another. While a limited number of lengths are illustrated for the electrically conductive sliding portions it should be understood that any length sliding portion could be used and still fall within the described embodiments. Additionally while the wireless devices and shown in and A B comprise embodiments of an antenna architecture it can be appreciated that the size placement or location of the motherboards ground planes and the electrically conductive sliding portions may be implemented in accordance with various performance and design constraints. For example the efficiency of the antenna system may depend upon a proper relationship between the size and shape of the various components and the wavelength of the targeted frequency. The specific frequency range that the antenna system is designed to cover may dictate the optimal size of the components. Therefore the specific implementation of the antenna system may vary depending upon such factors as the target operating frequencies power consumption requirements battery life a form factor of the wireless device transceiver operations signal quality weight considerations of the wireless devices and and so forth.

For example in various embodiments the one or more electrically conductive sliding portions are connected to establish predetermined conductive lengths when the first and second housings are in the open and closed positions. In some embodiments the predetermined conductive lengths may comprise fractions of wavelengths such as a quarter wavelength for example.

In various implementations the motherboards ground planes and electrically conductive sliding portions may be spatially separated by a predetermined amount such as a fraction of a wavelength for example. In certain directions signals radiated from the radiating elements may add constructively resulting in a lobe or stronger antenna pattern. In other directions radiated signals may add destructively resulting in a null or weak antenna pattern. The number of lobes and or nulls may depend on the number of radiating elements the physical separation between radiating elements the wavelength of the radio signal and or phase of the radio signal.

Upper housing may include a display in various embodiments. Display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the wireless device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments lower housing may include a keyboard . Keyboard may comprise any keyboard keypad or thumb board suitable for entering information into wireless device . For example keyboard may comprise a QWERTY keyboard in various embodiments.

In various embodiments a portion of the one or more electrically conductive sliding portions are exposed when the first and second housings and are in the open position. In this manner the antenna system for wireless device may be improved in that exposure of a portion of the electrically conductive sliding portions may enhance the reception or radiation of these radiating elements.

In some embodiments the material used for electrically conductive sliding portions may be selected or finished to enhance the visual appearance of wireless device in addition to enhancing the antenna capabilities of the wireless device. For example electrically conductive sliding portions may be polished painted or otherwise finished to achieve a desired look while maintaining electrical connectively and coupling of the housings . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Upper housing may include a mirrored surface located on a side opposite the display in various embodiments. For example the mirrored surface may be visible when the first and second housings are in the open position. Mirrored surface may comprise any material suitable for reflecting an image. In various embodiments mirrored surface may comprise or be backed with an electrically conductive material and may be connected to sliding portions to enhance the size of the radiating elements of the antenna system for wireless device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display . The keypad may also comprise a thumbboard.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11a 802.11n etc. WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include an antenna module . The antenna module may be configured to control the antenna systems described above with reference to A B and A B. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

