---

title: Hardened current mode logic (CML) voter circuit, system and method
abstract: A current mode logic voter circuit includes three two-input split NOR gates. Each two-input split NOR gate receives a corresponding pair of input signals and generates a pair of first output signals responsive to the input signals. A three input split NOR gate is coupled to the two-input split NOR gates to receive the first output signals and generates a second pair of output signals responsive to the first output signals from the two-input split NOR gates. The two and three-input split NOR gates can be formed from current mode logic buffer circuits, and in one embodiment in the three-input split NOR gate the buffer circuits are hardened.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07965098&OS=07965098&RS=07965098
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 07965098
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081210
---
The present application is a national phase application filed pursuant to 35 USC 371 of International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US2008 086291 filed 10 Dec. 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 007 340 filed 10 Dec. 2007 now expired all of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DTRA01 03 D 0007 0007 awarded by the Department of Defense. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to electronic circuitry including current mode logic that operates in environments where radiation induced logic errors may occur.

Integrated circuits are operated in environments where radiation induced logic errors may occur such as in outer space. In outer space for example high energy protons or heavy ions cosmic rays are a type of radiation that can cause logic errors when impacting integrated circuits. In such environments the integrated circuit is required to maintain data integrity during a single event upset SEU . A single event upset is a radiation induced error in the logic state of a signal within the integrated circuit. Such an error can result from the collision between a high energy proton or a heavy ion and the semiconductor material that forms the integrated circuit. This type of collision produces a quantity of electron hole pairs in circuitry within the integrated circuit that is generating the signal with the quantity of electron hole pairs being capable of altering the logic state of the signal.

Current mode logic CML is a differential logic family intended to be utilized for the transmission of high speed data. is a simplified schematic illustrating a conventional current mode logic buffer that includes two NMOS transistors each transistor receiving a respective one of a pair of complementary input signals A Ab where Ab is a signal having a voltage level corresponding to the complementary logic state of the signal A. Each of the transistors is connected in series with a corresponding pull up resistor between a supply voltage Vdd and a current source . In operation in response to the input signals A Ab the buffer generates a pair of complementary output signals Y Yb on drain nodes of the transistors that are coupled to the pull up resistors .

A single event upset is functionally illustrated in and corresponds to radiation impacting the buffer at the drain node of the transistor . The radiation corresponds to the collision of a high energy proton heavy ion or other atomic particle at this node. A collision has the effect of removing charge from the drain node of the transistor as is functionally represented by a current source in the figure. Note that for current mode logic circuitry which utilizes only NMOS transistors single event upsets cause only the invalid logic condition 0 0 since such an event will only have the affect of removing charge from one of the nodes in the buffer as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The effect of the single event upset event on the operation of the buffer of is illustrated in the signal diagram of showing the complementary output signals Y Yb as a function of time during the occurrence of the event . As shown in initially the complementary output signals Y and Yb have complementary logic levels 1 and 0 respectively at just before a time T. Upon occurrence of the single event upset at the drain node of transistor however which occurs at the time T in both the complementary output signals Y Yb go low i.e. to a logic level 0 as illustrated in the signal diagram. As a result the single event upset causes both complementary output signals Y Yb to have the same logic state 0 which is an invalid logic condition. The output signals Y Yb are complementary signals so the logic states 1 0 or 0 1 are valid while the logic states 0 0 and 1 1 are invalid logic conditions. Note that the buffer is an inverting buffer if output signals Y Yb are taken from the opposite drain nodes and in the description below if output signals Y Yb are the complement of the input signals A Ab during normal operation then the buffer is assumed to be an inverting buffer as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Such invalid logic conditions may of course result in improper operation of electronic circuitry not shown of which the buffer is a part. Moreover such an invalid logic condition will be propagated by subsequent conventional current mode logic buffers that receive invalid complementary output signals Y Yb having invalid logic levels. This is seen with reference to the schematic of the buffer in since the buffer will generate invalid complementary output signals Y Yb if invalid states 1 1 or 0 0 for the input signals A Ab are received by the buffer.

Current mode logic circuits are extremely susceptible to single event upsets as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. illustrates a conventional triple module redundancy TMR approach for hardening current mode logic circuitry. With the TMR approach a hardened CML voter circuit is utilized in combination with triple redundancy of the actual electronic circuitry contained in the system to be protected. The actual electronic circuitry corresponds to each of the modules in .

The hardened CML voter circuit implements the illustrated Boolean logic function namely Z AB AC BC where Z is the output of the voter and A B and C are the outputs from the modules respectively. Each of the outputs A B and C corresponds to a differential pair of outputs as discussed with reference to the buffer of . In operation the voter circuit outputs a logic 1 for the output Z when any two outputs A B and C from the modules are equal to a logic 1. Thus if two or more of the modules output a logic 1 for the outputs A B and C then the logic 1 provided by these two modules is assumed to be correct. The rationale for this is that while a single event upset may impact one of the modules the probability that such a single event upset will impact more than one of the modules is extremely low.

There is a need for improved circuits and methods of preventing single event upsets in current mode logic systems.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a current mode logic voter circuit includes three two input split NOR gates. Each two input split NOR gate receives a corresponding pair of input signals and generates a pair of first output signals responsive to the input signals. A three input split NOR gate is coupled to the two input split NOR gates to receive the first output signals and generates a second pair of output signals responsive to the first output signals from the two input split NOR gates. The two and three input split NOR gates can be formed from current mode logic buffer circuits and in one embodiment in the three input split NOR gate the buffer circuits are hardened.

In the following description certain details are set forth in conjunction with the described embodiments of the present invention to provide a sufficient understanding of the invention. One skilled in the art will appreciate however that the invention may be practiced without these particular details. Furthermore one skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described below do not limit the scope of the present invention and will also understand that various modifications equivalents and combinations of the disclosed embodiments and components of such embodiments are within the scope of the present invention. Embodiments including fewer or more than all the components of any of the respective described embodiments may also be within the scope of the present invention although not expressly described in detail below. Finally the operation of well known components and or processes has not been shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Each of the two input split NOR gates receives two corresponding pairs of complementary input signals A Ab B Bb C Cb from modules not shown that form the actual circuitry being protected. Each two input split NOR gate generates a corresponding pair of complementary outputs I I I I and I I. Note that while selected signals are described as being complementary signals single event upsets can result in such signals not being complementary and thereby result in invalid logic conditions as previously discussed above. The three input split NOR gate receives the complementary outputs I I I I and I Ifrom the two input split NOR gates and generates a complementary pair of output signals Z Zb in response to the output signals from the two input split NOR gates.

In operation of the voter circuit it is assumed that only one pair of input signals e.g. A Ab can be corrupted at a time since as discussed above the likelihood of a single event upset condition affecting two or more modules not shown coupled to the voter circuit is extremely low. Furthermore it is assumed that only one of the split NOR gates can be hit by a single event upset at time. In one embodiment the three input split NOR gate is formed from hardened current mode logic buffers not shown and is therefore immune to single event upsets. The two input split NOR gate implements the following logic function 1 1 The same is true for the split NOR gates and their corresponding inputs so only the gate is discussed in more detail. When the input signals A Ab and C Cb are complementary as they should be under normal operating conditions with no single event upsets then the split NOR gate functions as a simple NOR gate. When this is not true and a single event upset had corrupted one of the input signals A Ab or C Cb the two input NOR gate rejects 0 0 and 1 1 input conditions for the corrupted input signal and outputs the correct values for the outputs I I. For example if the input signals A Ab are 0 0 or 1 1 and the C Cb signals are a valid 0 1 or 1 0 then in this situation the gate outputs for I Ithe inverted correct values of either 1 0 or 0 1 of the valid input signal C Cb. Finally the split NOR gate outputs a 0 0 value for the output signals I Iwhen the input signals A Ab and C Cb are mismatched. The input signals A Ab and C Cb are considered mismatched when the signals of each input signal are complementary so that the input signal is valid but the input signals have different values. For example if input signal A Ab is 0 1 and input signal C Cb is 1 0 then the split NOR gate outputs a 0 0 value for output signals I I. The same is true if input signal A Ab is 1 0 and input signal C Cb is 0 1 . Thus by forming the two input split NOR gates to implement the above logic functions each of the gates operates as just described responsive to the corresponding input signals.

The three input split NOR gate functions similarly to the two input split NOR gate as just described. The gate rejects the 0 0 condition on two of the three pairs of signals I I I I and I Ifrom the two input split NOR gate . In this situation the gate generates correct values for the output signals Z Zb from the third pair of signals I I I I and I Ihaving the correct value. For example if the signals I I and I Ihave the invalid 0 0 condition and the signal I Ihas the value 0 1 then the gate outputs 1 0 for the signals Z Zb which corresponds to the complement of the valid 0 1 state for the valid signal I I. In this way the hardened current mode logic voter circuit does not propagate errors to circuitry downstream of the voter circuit.

In operation the isolation resistors and isolate or decouple the drain nodes of the transistors and from the output nodes on which the signals Y and Yb respectively are developed. As a result a single event upset on one of the drain nodes does not pull the corresponding output node down so quickly but more slowly at a rate determined by the value of the isolation resistor and the capacitance of the output node. Moreover in one embodiment the buffer includes a number of the buffers coupled in parallel so that in the event one of the circuits experiences a single event upset the remaining fifteen other circuits continue driving the output node at the proper logic level. Sixteen buffers are coupled in parallel in one embodiment of the present invention.

The voter circuit of and the voter circuit of may be utilized in a variety of different types of electronic circuits such as phased locked loops and phase interpolators which in turn can themselves be contained in a variety of different types of electronic systems. is a functional block diagram of an electronic system including the hardened current mode logic voter circuits of and or according to another embodiment of the present invention. The electronic system includes processing circuitry that is shown as including an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that in turn includes the voter circuits and or in the embodiment of . In one embodiment the ASIC includes a serializer deserializer SERDES that in turn includes the voter circuits and or . The processing circuitry is coupled to a memory through a bus . Data and any programs being executed by the processing circuitry may be stored in the memory . The electronic system further includes input devices and output devices coupled to the processing circuitry via the bus . The inputs devices may include a receiver circuitry including an antenna for receiving and conditioning transmitted signals and the output devices may similarly include an antenna and associated transmitter circuitry for transmitting signals to a remote location. Furthermore note that depending on the specific application of the system the components may be integrated in a single semiconductor chip or may be contained on a common carrier such as a printed circuit board. Also depending on the application of the system the hardened current mode logic voter circuits may be contained not only in the processing circuitry but may also be contained in other components of the system such as the memory input devices and output devices .

Even though various embodiments and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description the above disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail and yet remain within the broad principles of the present invention. Moreover the functions performed by components in the voters and may be combined to be performed by fewer elements separated and performed by more elements or combined into different functional blocks in other embodiments of the present invention. Also other embodiments of the present invention are directed to other than triple mode redundancy and include components having different numbers of inputs such as the split NOR gates of where for example each of the gates could include N inputs instead of three inputs as in this embodiment where N equals 2 and any integer greater than 3. Therefore the present invention is not to be limited by the above description of embodiments thereof but only by the appended claims.

