---

title: Method and system for customizing metadata in TV network
abstract: A method for customizing metadata in a content delivery network, said method comprising: (a) storing customized metadata for a program, said customized metadata being inputted by a user; (b) modifying default metadata with said customized metadata and providing said modified metadata to said EPG; and (c) displaying program information based on said modified metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955016&OS=08955016&RS=08955016
owner: TVWorks, LLC
number: 08955016
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080222
---
The present invention relates generally to displaying information about a television program using an electronic program guide and more specifically to displaying information that is customized by a user.

Electronic program guides EPG are ubiquitous in television TV delivery systems or networks such as cable television and satellite television. Generally an EPG displays information about a program that facilitates watching or recording the program such as its title broadcast time and broadcast channel. An EPG allows the viewer to browse program summaries and in certain interactive networks search by genre title or channel. Furthermore when an EPG is connected to a digital video recorder DVR it enables a viewer to plan his or her viewing and record programs for later viewing. An EPG may also be used to implement parental controls such that programs with certain ratings or titles are not permitted to be viewed without the appropriate password to override the parental control. The program information displayed by an EPG is based on the program s metadata.

Metadata for EPGs can be obtained in different ways including from the program s delivery stream through metadata service providers and from the recorded program. When a program is being delivered it must have certain metadata information associated with it. Metadata transmitted along with the stream is referenced to herein as content metadata. This is data transmitted along with the Digital TV DTV signal that lets DTV receivers extract information about the currently tuned station and the current program. The data includes tuning information frequency MPEG program number title rating for VCHIP parental control purposes closed captioning information etc. This information is targeted for a short time frame from current program up to 6 hours out for the currently tuned digital transport stream only. It typically follows the Program and System Information Protocol PSIP . This is not the type of information a traditional electronic program guide would use but rather is used by an advanced digital TV without a set top box STB or set top unit. This data is accessed by the JavaTV http java.sun.com products javatv application programming interface API in the javax.tv.service.guide package. Other standards for injecting metadata in a delivery stream are ATSC American TV Standards Committee which is an older more generic standard and OCAP Open Cable Application Platform which is a Java API for making metadata available from a content entity e.g. ABC PBS etc to any java application running on device.

Another source of metadata is through metadata aggregators and is referred to herein as aggregated metadata. This is not governed by a standard but rather is provided for a fee to populate an EPG. This data includes all the typical data one would expect to see title rating content warnings description actors director s review duration audio info language stereo Dolby Dolby 5.1 etc. video info letterbox wide screen HD etc. category subcategories . The two major program metadata aggregators in the North American market are Tribune Media Services TMS which provides both PSIP and proprietary program listing formats and Gemstar TVGuide which provides a proprietary program listing format for use in their guides.

A third source of metadata is through the content recorded by a DVR and is referred to herein as recorded metadata . Recorded metadata is stored when a program is recorded on a user s DVR. Although this information will include the broadcast and or aggregated metadata as mentioned above it will also include other information as to the time of recording and whether or not the show has been watched by the user. Generally this metadata is stored with the recorded content on the user s DVR.

Displaying program information on the user s TV requires obtaining organizing and providing the above described metadata to the EPG. TVWorks Ontario Canada provides a state of the art solution for providing metadata to the EPG. Specifically the solution involves a server associated with the cable provider or multi system operator MSO and a software module associated with the user s STB. The server accesses metadata aggregators such as TVGuide and TMS to obtain metadata information on publicly delivered content. This server also functions to filter this metadata such that only regionally appropriate subject matter that is programming specific to the regional area supported by the MSO headend is provided to the signal provider. In the TVWorks environment this data is imported from either TMS or TVGuide and converted into a proprietary database format.

In addition to the server the TVWorks system also comprises a module on the user s STB that serves to gather and provide metadata information to the EPG. Specifically the module comprises a set of Java APIs that an electronic program guide or any other OCAP application can use to query or search form program data up to two weeks beyond the current time on any channel regardless of what channel the user might be tuned to at that moment. This way the TVWorks system aggregates the various metadata sources and provides the EPG with a single point to obtain the needed metadata.

Although TVWorks approach is effective in supporting the EPG Applicants have nevertheless identified a need for improving the quality of the metadata provided. The present invention fulfills this need among others.

Applicants have recognized that information displayed by an EPG is not as useful as it could be because only information based on default metadata is displayed. As used herein the term default metadata refers to content metadata aggregated metadata and recorded metadata as described above.

Default metadata is deficient in several ways. First often it provides insufficient information to adequately describe the program. For example certain programs may be entitled as unlisted. Likewise often series are entitled by just the name of the series with no specificity given to the particular episode in question. For example the metadata information for an episode of the Sopranos may simply say Sopranos and not provide additional information of that particular episode. Conversely often situations arise when the default metadata provides too much information. Such a case may arise for example with respect to adult content or other programming that a user may want to conceal from other members of his household. Yet another shortcoming of default metadata is with respect to parental controls. Parental controls typically involve a prohibition of certain titles and ratings meaning that programs having the locked titles or ratings cannot be viewed without a password. However a parent may deem a program suitable for viewing after reviewing the program or otherwise reevaluating it and wish to override a locked title or rating. In this case it would be helpful if additional information could be provided to override the parental control. Therefore Applicants have identified a need to augment or otherwise modify the default metadata to enhance or obscure the description or to facilitate more flexibility in the parental controls.

Applicants not only have identified the need for modifying default metadata but also provide a solution. Specifically the system of the present invention provides an additional source of metadata which is customized for a particular user for a particular program. This customized metadata changes augments or otherwise modifies the default metadata described above. Such customized metadata allows the default metadata to be modified automatically and updated appropriately such that the EPG is provided with more meaningful metadata.

One aspect of the invention is a set top box STB for providing default metadata modified with customized metadata to an EPG. In one embodiment the STB comprises a an interface with a signal provider to convert information transmitted therefrom for display on a monitor b an interface to a customized metadata database containing customized metadata c an electronic program guide for displaying information about a program and d a metadata module for obtaining default metadata for a program and modifying the default metadata with the customized metadata contained in the customized metadata database and providing the modified metadata to the electronic program guide which displays information about the program on the monitor.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method for modifying default metadata to display information that is more meaningful to a particular user. In a preferred embodiment the method comprises a displaying information about a program with an EPG based on default metadata b storing customized metadata for the program the customized metadata being inputted by a user c modifying the default metadata with the customized metadata and providing the modified metadata to the EPG and d displaying modified program information with the EPG based on the modified metadata.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a TV network for modifying default metadata. In a preferred embodiment the system comprises a signal provider operatively connected to a server which obtains aggregated metadata a content entity which transmits content metadata and at least one STB comprising a an interface with the signal provider to convert information transmitted therefrom for display on a monitor b an interface to a customized metadata database containing customized metadata c an electronic program guide for displaying information about a program and d a metadata module for obtaining default metadata for a program and modifying the default metadata with the customized metadata contained in the customized metadata database and providing modified metadata to the electronic program guide.

Referring to a system of the present invention is shown. The system comprises a signal provider such as a cable facility head end of a multisystem operator MSO . The signal provider is operatively connected to a content entity for example ABC NBC etc. a metadata server and at least one subscriber set top box STB . The server is in communication with metadata aggregators such as TV Guide and TMS. The signal provider is configured to stream content from the content entity to the STBs . The subscriber STB is operatively connected to a television or other type of monitor optionally a digital video recorder DVR having digital storage for storing delivered content from the signal provider and a customized metadata database containing customized metadata. The STB also comprises an electronic program guide EPG to display information about a program on the monitor based on metadata and a module supporting the EPG by obtaining default metadata for a given program and modifying the default data according to the customized metadata. Although a cable system is considered herein in detail it should be understood that this is just for illustrative purposes and the invention is not limited to a cable network and can be applied in any content delivery system or network.

The system functions to perform method depicted in a flow chart in . Specifically in step information about a program is displayed on a monitor by the EPG based on default metadata. Such a step occurs when the program information is initially displayed before a user has had an opportunity to add customized metadata. As is known in the prior art the default metadata may be obtained from various sources including the delivery stream metadata provider or stored metadata. After the program information is displayed the user may input customized metadata for the program which is stored in the customized metadata database in step . In step the module obtains the default metadata for a program modifies it according to the customized metadata and provides the modified metadata to the EPG for display on the monitor. As used herein the term modified means changed or augmented. In step the EPG displays modified program information based on the modified metadata provided by the metadata module . The system and method are described in greater detail below.

As mentioned above Step displaying information about a program using an EPG is essentially the same as in the prior art and will not be discussed further. In Step the user enters customized metadata. There may be various reasons for doing so. Generally the customized data modifies the default metadata e.g. either clarifies the program s content or obscures it. For example a user may wish to entitle an episode of a series by the subject matter of that particular episode rather than by the series name. For example rather than simply calling a recorded program Seinfeld or NFL Football a user may rename the programs to read Seinfeld Series Finale or Steelers v. Eagles respectively. Likewise often default metadata may not include the title of a program which is scheduled for broadcast far into the future or on an obscure channel e.g. to be announced . In such a case additional information with respect to the title may be inputted. Furthermore when multiple shows are recorded in a block of time the recorded block may be entitled to be meaningful e.g. Must See TV 6 24 06. It also might be convenient to translate names into different languages e.g. Friends may be renamed Amigos. 

In contrast to adding information to clarify the content of a program it may be preferable in certain circumstances to obscure the data. For example often adult content may contain descriptions that are too explicit for general household viewing. In such cases the present invention allows the user to modify the title or other parameter to obscure what otherwise might be an overly descriptive title. Other reasons for obscuring data will be obvious to one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

In addition to modifying the title of the show it may be preferable to modify its rating or otherwise override a parental control. Specifically if a parental control is used to lock out a certain title or rating but the parent after viewing it finds the subject matter to be suitable for household viewing the parent may alter the rating or title such that it avoids the parental control lock. Likewise information can be added to rate the quality of a program or otherwise categorize it personally. For example the user may want to rate different episodes of a series or characterize different programs for cataloging purposes e.g. boring the best good for kids . In addition to these modifications others will be obvious to one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

Referring back to system of the STB is configured to interface with the monitor the signal provider the customized metadata database and optionally the DVR . As used herein a STB is a device that connects to a monitor and an external source of signal converting the signal into content for display on the monitor. The signal source might be an ethernet cable a satellite dish a coaxial cable cable television a telephone line including DSL connections Broadband over Power Line or even an ordinary VHF or UHF antenna. Content in this context could mean any or all of video audio Internet webpages interactive games or other possibilities.

The STB may have several different embodiments. For example it may be a special digital STB for delivering digital content on TV sets that do not have a built in digital tuner. The STB may also descramble premium cable channels. A STB may be a cable converter box to receive digital cable TV channels and convert them to analog for non digital TVs. In the case of direct broadcast satellite mini dish systems such as SES Astra Dish Network or DirecTV the STB is an integrated receiver decoder or IRD . In IPTV networks the STB is a small computer providing two way communications on an IP network and decoding the video streaming media which eliminates the need for any coaxial cabling.

The STB may be a discrete unit or its functionality may be distributed to other components of the user s system such as the monitor TV DVR or personal computer. For example the STB may be a portable modular unit i.e. a personal STB or it may be integrated into a stationary TV system. The STB may contain one or more digital processors or may use the processing capabilities of the other system components e.g. TV DVR personal computer . Additionally rather than having its own tuner the STB may use the tuner of a television or DVR .

Some boxes may have a built in DVR that often utilizes the electronic program guide scheduling data and records content to a memory device e.g. an internal hard disk drive. As used herein a DVR is a device that records video content in a digital format to a memory device such a disk drive or static memory. The device may be a portable modular unit i.e. a personal DVR or it may be integrated into a stationary TV system. The term includes stand alone units and software for a personal computer that enables video capture and playback to and from the computer s memory. The term also includes televisions with DVR hardware and software built in to the television itself.

The customized metadata database may be integrated or discrete from the STB. Preferably it is integrated with the DVR s digital storage to simplify the system. Information is entered into the customized metadata database by the user and preferably through the user input device associated with the STB such as a remote control. In this respect inputting customized metadata may be performed by displaying a pop up virtual keyboard on the monitor and selecting keys therefrom using the remote control.

In the present system the STB is configured with the EPG and the metadata module . The EPG sometimes referred to as an Interactive Program Guide IPG or an Electronic Service Guide ESG is a well known type of software application for providing an on screen guide to scheduled broadcast television programs allowing a viewer to navigate select and discover content by time title channel genre etc by use of their remote control a keyboard or even a phone keypad. The technology is based upon delivering data to an application usually residing within middleware in the STB that connects to the television set and enables the display of the metadata related to the content. Newer media centers i.e. PC based multi channel TV recorders and DVRs may use an internet feed for the EPG. This enables two way interactivity for the user so that media delivery can be requested via the EPG or related link and remote programming of the media centre can be achieved. Typical elements of an EPG include a graphical user interface which enable the display of program titles descriptive information such as a synopsis actors directors year of production and so on the channel name and the programs offered from subchannels such as pay per view and video on demand VOD services program start times genres and other descriptive metadata. The information is typically displayed on a grid with the option to select more information on each program.

The EPG is supported by the metadata module . The term module is used broadly herein and refers generally to a program resident in memory of a computer. It should be understood that the metadata module and the EPG may be one in the same program or they may be discreet programs run discreetly on a user s STB or on different components. The metadata module is configured to obtain the default metadata as described above and then modify it with the customized metadata stored in the customized database. The following is pseudocode for carrying out this function 

The systems and processes described above are shown only by way of example and are not meant to limiting in any manner. It would be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art to add remove or combine components or steps as needed for any individual situation. The invention is only intended to be limited by the claims that follow.

