---

title: Multilevel online tournament
abstract: A multilevel online tournament is provided. The first tournament round has a single bracket and each subsequent tournament round has a winners bracket and a losers bracket corresponding to a bracket in the previous tournament round. The tournament format allows players to match-up against any other player located within the same bracket. The online tournament format also allows participants to start playing match in a round of the tournament prior to the official start of that round. Thus, players are able to more quickly advance through the tournament and spend less time waiting for a suitable opponent. The tournament format also allows for players to request available tournament byes and to automatically progress when they are unable to connect with other players due to quality of service issues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07682251&OS=07682251&RS=07682251
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07682251
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080404
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 7 354 345 issued Apr. 8 2008 entitled Multilevel Online Tournament herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to games. More precisely the present invention relates to systems and methods for conducting online tournaments for video games.

The concept of online gaming has evolved from mere concept to reality. Originally implementations of online games were rudimentary at best. Two players located in remote locations would give each other their respective IP addresses and link up directly to play a game online. As available bandwidth increased and games became better suited for online play online forums were created to help players find each other. These forums provided players the ability to find opponents that they otherwise would not have been easily able to find allowing the competitive sphere to broaden substantially. Shortly thereafter online gamers realized that it would be more enjoyable if some degree of organization were brought to finding and choosing opponents. As a result online tournaments were born.

Early online tournaments were single elimination tournaments in which predefined pairings of opponents were matched against each other. The winner would advance to a next tournament round and the loser would be removed from the competition. In the single elimination format winners continued playing against each other until a single player remained unbeaten in the tournament. That remaining player was crowned the tournament champion.

Nevertheless single elimination tournaments had several shortcomings that hindered the experience of online tournament play. For example in the single elimination format match ups were predetermined and as winners advanced to the next round they would be forced to wait for their opponent to finish a corresponding match.

Thus a player might sit idly for a lengthy period of time before playing his next round match. If the player became inpatient he would often choose to drop out of the tournament rather than wait for an opponent to become available. Moreover if a player was forced to wait before playing each round in a large tournament the tournament would take hours and hours to complete with the player spending the majority of that time waiting rather than playing. Either scenario negatively affects user satisfaction levels.

Another shortcoming found in single elimination tournaments was the disparity in the number of matches played by competitors. Because each match eliminated one of the two match participants from the tournament half of all tournament participants played only a single match. The top participants in contrast would advance deep into the brackets playing several matches. The lesser players would have the opportunity to play only a single match in which they could hone their skills. Thus the better players were able to practice more resulting in a scenario where the better players improved and the lesser players stagnated.

In order to alleviate some of these shortcomings online tournaments began using a format known as the Swiss Round Robin format sometimes called the Swiss Ladder format or simply the Swiss format . This format developed initially to help run chess tournament play attempted to address the problem of disparities among players in terms of the number of matches played. In the Swiss tournament format all players were seeded and played a first round match. The winner of each first round match was placed in a second round winners bracket and each of the losers was placed in the second round losers bracket. Once all of the matches in the first round had been completed the winners bracket was re seeded and the losers bracket was re seeded and the second round of play began.

Upon completion of the second round the winners in each bracket were divided from the losers resulting in a total of four brackets. The competitors in each bracket were again re seeded and the third round commenced. The process continued until only a single undefeated player remained in the tournament. Although the Swiss tournament format allowed less skilled players to continue playing matches in spite of several losses it did not provide a solution to the problem of waiting for all matches of a round to finish prior to commencement of the next tournament round.

A number of other problems have been encountered in conducting online tournaments. For example current methods of conducting online tournaments are ill equipped to handle uneven numbers of competitors. This situation arises when competitors drop out of tournaments causing the brackets to become uneven. Moreover online tournaments have historically suffered from network address translation NAT and quality of service QoS issues that prevent certain players from being able to connect effectively to play against each other.

In view of these and other shortcomings in the prior art what is needed is an online tournament system and method that reduce the waiting time between matches for players and allow players to continue playing after a loss. What is further needed is an online tournament that effectively handles NAT QoS issues that adversely affect the ability of players to connect with each other for a match.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

According to aspects of the invention a multilevel online tournament is provided in which a tournament participant need not wait until the current tournament round completes before starting the next tournament round match. Additional aspects of the invention provide for an online tournament format such that multiple rounds simultaneously take place.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method for conducting an online tournament in which participants are permitted to match up with any other participant in the same bracket. Winners advance to a next tournament round winners bracket and losers advance to a next tournament round losers bracket. Matches in the next tournament round may immediately commence regardless of whether the matches in the previous round have completed.

According to another aspect of the invention a method is provided for advancing participants into a next tournament bracket when a suitable opponent cannot be found in the current round. The system calculates a trust rating for the requester that determines whether they are advanced to the winners bracket or the losers bracket of the next tournament round.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a computer or bank of computers can implement a method for administering a game tournament over a computer network for many participants. The computer initially places all of the participants in a single first round bracket and pairs off participants for tournament matches each of which result in a winner and a loser. For each match up the computer places the winner into a next tournament round winners bracket corresponding to the bracket for the current round in which the match up occurred and places the loser into a next tournament round losers bracket corresponding to the bracket for the current round in which the match up occurred. In subsequent rounds the computer pairs off the participants in each bracket of a current tournament round for game match ups where any two participants in the same bracket of the tournament round are allowed to match up.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers portable and hand held devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs tablet PCs or laptop PCs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers electronic game consoles distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Game console has four slots on its front face to support up to four controllers although the number and arrangement of slots may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of the game console . The power button switches power to the game console and the eject button alternately opens and closes a tray of the portable media drive to allow insertion and extraction of the storage disc .

Game console may connect to a television or other display not shown via A V interfacing cables . A power cable provides power to the game console. Game console may further be configured with broadband network capabilities as represented by the cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet.

Each controller may be coupled to the game console via a wire or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB Universal Serial Bus compatible and are connected to the console via serial cables . Controller may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. As illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons and two triggers . These mechanisms are merely representative and other known gaming mechanisms may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

A memory unit MU may be inserted into the controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable memory units enable users to store game parameters and port them for play on other consoles. In the described implementation each controller is configured to accommodate two memory units although more or less than two units may be employed in other implementations.

Gaming system is capable of playing for example games music and videos. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive or the portable medium in drive from an online source or from a memory unit . A sample of what gaming system is capable of playing include game titles played from CD and DVD discs from the hard disk drive or from an online source digital music played from a CD in the portable media drive from a file on the hard disk drive e.g. Windows Media Audio WMA format or from online streaming sources and digital audio video played from a DVD disc in the portable media drive from a file on the hard disk drive e.g. Active Streaming Format or from online streaming sources.

The CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

As one suitable implementation the CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to the memory controller via a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple DDR SDRAM Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM that are independently controlled by the memory controller via separate buses not shown . The hard disk drive and portable media drive are connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an ATA AT Attachment bus .

A 3D graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to the television or other display. In the illustrated implementation the video and audio processing components are mounted on the module .

Also implemented on the module are a USB host controller and a network interface . The USB host controller is coupled to the CPU and the memory controller via a bus e.g. PCI bus and serves as host for the peripheral controllers . The network interface provides access to a network e.g. Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wire or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

The game console has two dual controller support subassemblies and with each subassembly supporting two game controllers . A front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the game console. The subassemblies and are coupled to the module via one or more cable assemblies .

Eight memory units are illustrated as being connectable to the four controllers i.e. two memory units for each controller. Each memory unit offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. When inserted into a controller the memory unit can be accessed by the memory controller .

A system power supply module provides power to the components of the gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within the game console .

The game console implements a uniform media portal model that provides a consistent user interface and navigation hierarchy to move users through various entertainment areas. The portal model offers a convenient way to access content from multiple different media types game data audio data and video data regardless of the media type inserted into the portable media drive .

To implement the uniform media portal model a console user interface UI application is stored on the hard disk drive . When the game console is powered on various portions of the console application are loaded into RAM and or caches and executed on the CPU . The console application presents a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the game console. The UI application and exemplary screen displays it presents are described below in more detail beneath the headings Uniform Media Portal and Operation .

The gaming system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the gaming system allows one or more players to play games watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface the gaming system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community. This network gaming environment is described next.

In addition to gaming systems one or more online services . . . s may be accessible via the network to provide various services for the participants such as hosting online games serving downloadable music or video files hosting gaming competitions serving streaming audio video files and the like. The network gaming environment may further involve a key distribution center that plays a role in authenticating individual players and or gaming systems to one another as well as online services . The distribution center distributes keys and service tickets to valid participants that may then be used to form games amongst multiple players or to purchase services from the online services .

The network gaming environment introduces another memory source available to individual gaming systems online storage. In addition to the portable storage medium the hard disk drive and the memory unit s the gaming system can also access data files available at remote storage locations via the network as exemplified by remote storage at online service .

The uniform media portal model accommodates the network gaming environment. As an example when a user purchases a game the model can provide the user with navigation points for downloading upgrades for that game and viewing high scores online specific to the game title.

The present invention provides a multilevel online tournament which allows tournament participants to avoid lengthy waiting times for the next tournament round to start. Utilizing the systems and methods of the present invention online tournaments can be created that include hundreds or even thousands of participants teams or players . In one or more embodiments of the invention pre registration is not required for participants they simply sign up for the tournament a few minutes prior to the start of the tournament and play all matches back to back. By way of general overview of the invention in the first tournament round all participants are placed in a single bracket and any participant is permitted to match up with any other tournament participant. All participants advance to the next tournament round. The next tournament round is split into a winners bracket and a losers bracket and tournament participants again match up with any other participant within their bracket. All participants in the winners W bracket advance to the next tournament round with winners bracket winners advancing to a winners winners WW bracket and losers advancing to the winners losers WL bracket. Of those playing in the losers L bracket the winners advance to the losers winners LW bracket while the losers advance to the losers losers LL bracket. This process repeats each round until there is only a single participant remaining in each bracket. This online tournament format is referred to herein as a multilevel tournament. The determination of matchups handling of player bracketing system administration and other tournament details are discussed in more detail below.

An online tournament according to aspects of the present invention may have multiple phases including pre tournament tournament and post tournament. The phases delineated herein are not intended to represent strict dividing lines but rather are merely intended to provide a conceptual model by which the present invention may be more readily understood by those of skill in the art.

The pre tournament phase generally includes the organizing routines for a multilevel online tournament. These organizing routines may include a number of administrative tasks that are necessary for organizing a large number of players for a structured competition. Referring now to a flow chart illustrates steps that may take place during the pre tournament phase according to aspects of the present invention. At step a tournament administrator submits pre configuration information about a competition to online services using submission service . Pre configuration information is used to provide the options that will be available to a tournament administrator when the tournament administrator creates an online tournament. In one or more embodiments the tournament administrator is a video game publisher and the online service is online game service known in the art such as Xbox Live that allows the publisher to submit tournament information about a particular game title. The configuration information provided via submission service may include general information that allows online services e.g. Xbox Live to be configured to provide a suitable platform for conducting the online tournament for the game title provided. For example the configuration information may provide the competition types that are available for the game title e.g. single elimination Swiss format multilevel . It may also include game specific parameters such as game map e.g. Battlecreek Mountain Terrain etc. or game mode e.g. Capture the Flag Last Man Standing etc. . Other information that may be provided via submission service includes the number of allowed leader boards for each competition type. Auxiliary tournament leaderboards can be used to track relevant tournament wide stats. For example for a football tournament you may want to find out who had the best offense or defense in the tournament passing rushing sacking etc. . In one embodiment of the invention a multilevel tournament includes as many as sixteen round specific leader boards and three overall leader boards. The information submitted via submission service may be combined with other submission information and certified by some certifying authority as valid for use with online game services . Once the submission has been certified it may be configured within online service to allow authorized users e.g. tournament administrators to create online tournaments for that particular game title.

At step the multilevel tournament is created by a tournament administrator. The options available for creating the tournament will be defined in part by the pre configuration information submitted at step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the game publisher serves as the tournament administrator and uses tournament creation service to create the tournament. Tournament creation service may be a web service call available only to game publishers or in other embodiments it may be a client side application programming interface API if individual clients are allowed to create or initiate tournaments. Certain parameters may be received for use in creating a multilevel online tournament. These parameters may include tournament name start date and time round recurrence interval match schedule etc. Standard competition options may be predefined by the game publisher or some other party. A tournament administrator may specify a list of players to automatically place in the tournament. Where the tournament administrator is a game publisher the automatic enrollment feature may be useful for offering tournament registration through a website rather than through the online game services .

At step potential tournament participants search for a tournament for which they are eligible to register. Because the tournament was created in step potential participants will be able to find the newly created tournament during step . In some embodiments a user specifies preferred tournament characteristics and searches the online service for a tournament that matches preferred characteristics. In other embodiments the game title may be configured in step so that the online service finds the most appropriate competition for a potential tournament participant based on a user profile of the potential participant. This determination may occur transparently to the potential tournament participant such that they will be presented only with tournament options that are appropriate to their skill level or some other aspect of their user profile.

At step upon identifying a suitable tournament potential tournament participants join the identified multilevel tournament also referred to as signing up or registering for thereby transitioning from potential tournament participant to tournament participant. If the multilevel tournament is a team competition teams are permitted to join. If the tournament is an individual competition individual players are permitted to join. As provided above a potential tournament participant can either search for a tournament to join or the tournament administrator can pre enroll participants. A tournament administrator may also invite competitors to join the tournament as well using a preexisting invitation service of online service . When a player or team registers for the tournament registration service may verify that there are open slots available for the participant. In some embodiments the eligibility of the tournament participant which can be either an individual player or a team may be verified by registration service . In other embodiments registration verification may take place on the client side using code written into the game title by the publisher. Various items of information may be used for determining eligibility. For example attributes such as team affiliation user location or ranking may be used to determine whether a potential tournament participant may join a tournament.

If the minimum player requirement is met the tournament topology i.e. the tournament bracketing is then created at step to accommodate the verified tournament participants. Tournament topology creation is discussed in more detail below. Once the tournament topology is created the schedule defined during the tournament creation step in is provided to the tournament participants at step . In some embodiments the schedule may be given to tournament participants prior to their joining the tournament. Next at step tournament participants are matched against each other where possible by matchmaking service and the tournament participants compete with each other in the first tournament round. Matchmaking is discussed in more detail below. After the first tournament round matches are complete progression step advances tournament participants into the next tournament round and places them in the appropriate brackets. Step is discussed in more detail below. At step the system determines whether matches still remain to be played. This determination is typically based on the number of participants in the bracket. For example if only one player remains in a bracket for a game that requires two or more players no additional matches remain for that player. The tournament ends when no matches remain for any players. Thus if no matches and consequently no tournament rounds remain the system proceeds to step and proceeds to the post tournament phase. Otherwise if matches or tournament rounds remain the system returns to step to setup the remaining matches.

Referring now to a general method for creating the tournament topology as provided in step is shown. Based on the number of tournament participants the appropriate number of rounds is created at step . Next the rounds are divided into the appropriate number of brackets at step . In step the appropriate numbers of slots are created within each bracket. At step byes discussed in additional detail below are provided in the bracket when they are necessary.

After determining R the system creates R tournament rounds. Next the system creates the first round bracket Bracket 1 1 and calculates the appropriate number of S 1 1 in Bracket 1 1 using the following equation S 1 1 Next Power of 2 Greater Than P 1 1 Equation 2

Thus if there are 10 participants in round 1 S 1 1 is 16. Once the slots have been created the Bracket 1 1 byes are created using the equation 1 1 1 1 Equation 3

Although Equation 2 may produce a large number of byes in some embodiments it may be advantageous to do so in order is to avoid odd number of players in subsequent tournament rounds. In addition other embodiments may forgo the use of byes instead relying on match play and autoprogression discussed in more detail below for tournament advancement.

After creating the first tournament round the first tournament round is played and completed by the tournament participants. At the start of each subsequent tournament round i.e. rounds 2 m the system creates the Brackets for the round according to the following algorithm for each bracket in just completed non final round create two brackets winners and losers in the next tournament round. Once the brackets have been created the appropriate number of slots is created within each bracket. Given S m n then the number of slots in the winners bracket i.e. S m 1 2n 1 and the number of slots in the losers bracket i.e. S m 1 2n can each be calculated as follows 1 22 1 2 Equation 4a 1 2 2 Equation 4b

Lastly using Equation 3 the system creates any necessary byes in each bracket. Following these steps may result in the creation of a tournament bracketing similar to the bracketing illustrated in .

The block diagram in illustrates an example of a tournament schedule created at step . The tournament schedule provides a temporal framework including tournament deadlines by which the multilevel tournament may be conducted such that it progresses predictably with respect to time. As discussed previously a multilevel online tournament according to the present invention may be characterized as having three phases pre tournament set up tournament play and post tournament administration. shows the tournament play phase which begins at the competition Round 1 start time . At this time the first round of the tournament commences by matching up tournament participants. The lines passing through each of Round 1 Round 2 and Round n are auto progression deadlines . The auto progression deadline APD is a time by which all tournament participants must either register for their tournament match or request an automatic progression or bye into the next round.

In one or more embodiments if a tournament participant fails to take action prior to the APD in any given round the participant is eliminated from the tournament. In other embodiments the participant may simply be auto progressed to the losers bracket of the next tournament round. The APD may be specified relatively to the starting time of the round and may apply equally to each of the tournament rounds.

As discussed in connection with and step when the tournament is created the tournament administrator may specify a round recurrence interval RRI .

The RRI is a value that determines the start time for each round of the tournament subsequent to Round 1. Typically the RRI is set such that a typical match between any two tournament participants can be completed within the interval. The RRI may be set so that each new round immediately follows the previous one and rounds run consecutively. In other embodiments the round recurrence interval could be a daily or weekly interval rather than back to back.

Although the start of each round is set at an interval from the previous round the RRI does not prevent faster players from advancing at a more rapid pace than the round recurrence interval suggests. Instead the RRI represents a maximum time interval per round preventing the tournament from taking an unnecessarily long amount of time. For example referring to Events 1.A 2.A and n.A at in these events represent matches involving tournament participant A. Event 1.A represents the first round match for tournament participant A. The match ends relatively quickly. According to aspects of the present invention as discussed herein tournament participant A may immediately being his second round match even though the first round has not ended. Put another way a player need not wait for Round m to start in order to being a Round m match provided of course that an opponent can be found.

The RRI may be used to enforce tournament deadlines for completing matches. For example Events 1.C and 2.C each represent a match involving tournament participant C. Each of the matches is required to finish prior to the end of the RRI i.e. the beginning of the next round . This deadline enforcement is provided by specifying an arbitration deadline when a tournament match is registered with session arbitration discussed below . To further illustrate how deadlines may be enforced a sample timeline is shown in with a competition starting time of 6 00 PM a round recurrence interval RRI of 30 minutes and an APD of 5 minutes.

Referring back to at step matches between tournament participants are created and matches are played. In one or more embodiments of the invention matchmaking service is used to allow tournament participants to find each other to play a match. In other embodiments some other service such as the competition service or a session creation service may provide match ups between tournament participants. A tournament participant is permitted to match up with any other tournament participant so long as they are each within the same tournament bracket.

Matchmaking service may use some combination of a UserID BracketID pair to determine whether two tournament participants are located within the same tournament bracket. Thus according to aspects of the present invention when a tournament participant progresses from one round to the next round he may immediately begin searching for a new opponent using matchmaking service to determine whether there are other tournament participants in his current bracket. If an available opponent is found the tournament participant may propose a match up using matchmaking service . If the match up is accepted by the available opponent or if the tournament automatically matches up the two participants the two tournament participants play their match. In some embodiments in order for the tournament match to take place an arbitrated session is created to manage the tournament match. The arbitrated session provides a third party verification of the match result to the competition service so that the tournament can trust the match result and tournament participants are advanced into the appropriate bracket of the next tournament round. The tournament participant and his opponent may agree on a deadline by which the match must be finished the deadline is typically prior to the end of the current round . Both participants then register for the arbitrated session and proceed to play the match. During match play online service may be configured to record portions of the match and store the recording in remote storage . The video recording may be made available to tournament participants for viewing. For example the matchup that decides the tournament champion may be recorded in its entirety so that tournament participants may view the match after the tournament has been completed.

Tournament participants progress through a multilevel online tournament in three ways playing a tournament match via an arbitrated session claiming an available bye and requesting an auto progression. Players progress into subsequent rounds until they reach the final round of the tournament or a terminal bracket. The final round in the tournament is round R where R is the total number of rounds defined at step in . A terminal bracket a bracket with only a single tournament participant may occur prior to round R in cases where the brackets become uneven due to the distribution of competitors.

Referring now to an example of a bracket describing a normal progression for a three round tournament according to aspects of the present invention is provided. The first round of the tournament has a total of eight tournament participants placed in the single first round bracket . Under a normal progression scenario four tournament matches are played with the four winners advancing to second round winners bracket and the four losers advancing to second round losers bracket . The four winners bracket tournament participants match up amongst themselves to play two matches with winners advancing to third round winners winners bracket and the losers advancing to third round winners losers bracket . The four losers bracket tournament participants likewise match up to play two matches with the two winners advancing to third round losers winners bracket and the two losers advancing to third round losers losers bracket . In the present example upon completion of the third round each player can be individually ranked in the tournament results based on the third round outcomes.

Referring now to an example of a bracket is provided that illustrates how tournament participants may advance via a bye. As previously discussed byes may become necessary when a non power of two i.e. not equal to 2 of tournament participants end up within the same tournament bracket. In the example provided the online tournament begins with only seven participants placed in a single first round bracket . Because of the odd number of tournament participants in the bracket only three matches can be played among six of the tournament participants. From these three matches the winners will each advance to the second round winners bracket . The three losers advance to the second round losers bracket . The remaining participant is unable to match with another participant in the first round. Thus the remaining participant may request a bye. In some embodiments of the present invention the client must request the bye and the system must approve the bye where certain criteria are met. These criteria may include a requirement that the bracket have byes assigned to it that there are remaining available byes or that the request come in a specified time window between the start of the round and the APD for that round.

In other embodiments the system automatically grants a bye to a selected competitor without requiring that the participant request the bye. Referring again to the single participant that was given a bye advances to second round winners bracket . Thus second round winners W bracket includes four participants three that advanced via an arbitrated game session plus one that advanced into the bracket via a bye. Second round losers L bracket has only three participants. As a result a bye will be given to one of the three participants while the other two will advance via results of a single arbitrated session. Third round losers winners LW bracket will include a total of two tournament participants one participant that advanced into the bracket via the arbitrated session and the other participant advanced into the bracket via the bye. Third round losers losers LL bracket will include only a single competitor and therefore is a terminal bracket.

A third way in which a tournament participant may advance to a next tournament round is via auto progression. An auto progression differs from a bye in that it is not a predetermined event on the tournament schedule. Byes are part of the tournament based on the number of players and the structure of the brackets. In contrast an auto progression occurs due to some event that occurs during the tournament. A tournament participant may request an auto progression or it may be automatically granted by competition service based on a number of situations. First a tournament participant may request an auto progression when another tournament participant disconnects from the online tournament. Second an auto progression may be appropriate where the last two players remaining in a bracket are unable to play against each other due to a NAT QoS issue. This situation may arise when one or more of the tournament participants uses a router that is not certified by the tournament service provider. It may also arise in instances where a tournament participant s internet service provider ISP is malfunctioning. Auto progressions may occur during any round and in any bracket of the competition.

Referring to a bracket is provided that demonstrates advancement of tournament participants via auto progression due to NAT QoS problems. In this example a total of eight tournament participants are placed in first round tournament bracket . Six of the participants are able to match up and play three arbitrated sessions. Two of the participants however are unable to connect for a match or complete a match due to NAT QoS issues. As a result three tournament participants advance to each of the second round brackets and . In order to discourage tournament participants from registering for autoprogression when they could otherwise play not every participant who could not connect is advanced to the second round winners bracket . Thus one of the participants is auto progressed into the second round winners bracket and the other participant is auto progressed to the second round losers bracket . Advancing the tournament participants in this manner provides the further benefit of preventing the brackets from becoming uneven. As a result each of the second round brackets includes three participants that progressed into the bracket via an arbitrated session and a single participant that auto progressed into the bracket. In other embodiments all autoprogressed players may be placed in the winners bracket for the round or all autoprogressed players may be placed in the losers bracket for the round.

In order to determine which of the players requesting an auto progression should be advanced into a winners bracket competition service may apply certain criterion to determine where each tournament participant should go. illustrates a method for determining according to an aspect of the invention where to send each participant i.e. winners or losers bracket . At step the system first receives the list of players requesting auto progression from a tournament bracket. The system then retrieves a trust rating for each requester at step . A trust rating is a rating given to tournament participants that may be based on various factors related to trustworthiness and ability such as frequency of auto progression requests how often they drop out of tournaments previous tournament results or some other factors stored in the participant s user profile. The system then determines the number of successful matches M in the current bracket at the number of byes B that were issued in the current bracket at and the total number of slots TS in the next round winners bracket at . At the system calculates the number of available slots AS for auto progression in the winners bracket using the following equation Equation 5

Once the number of available slots has been ascertained the system assigns the participants with the highest trust ratings to each of the available slots at . The remaining auto progression requesters are then assigned to the next tournament round losers bracket at .

In another embodiment an alternative method may be used for determining where to send tournament participants via autoprogression. In this method the tournament participants being advanced via autoprogression are sorted according to a relevant rating and the top half including the middle participant where the number of autoprogressions is odd goes to the next tournament round winners bracket and the remaining tournament participants are advanced to the next tournament round losers bracket.

The invention has been described above from the viewpoint of the system that manages the online tournament. In order to more fully describe the invention a flowchart is provided in that illustrates the tournament flow from the point of view of a tournament participant. At step the participant signs up for the multilevel online tournament. At step the tournament begins. At step a pre match screen is presented to the user that displays general information about the tournament. At step the system determines whether there are byes available for the first round. If byes are available the participant may request a bye at step and advance via the requested bye to the next round at step . If no byes are available the participant attempts to find a match opponent at step . If an opponent is found the participant registers with session arbitration at step and proceeds to play the match at step . Once the match has been completed at step the game result and statistics are reported back to competition service and a post match result screen is displayed to the participant at step . This screen may include game statistics and possibly links to video recordings of the action of the just completed match. If no opponent is found at step the participant requests an auto progression at step . The auto progression is then granted at step i.e. the user is placed in the appropriate winners or losers bracket and the participant is then presented with the post match screen at step .

At step the system determines whether there are more rounds remaining to be played. If there are no remaining rounds the tournament ends at step . If there are remaining rounds the system proceeds to step to determine whether there are any other players in the participant s bracket. If so the participant is returned to pre match screen at step . If no other players are in the participant s bracket the system checks to see whether the auto progression deadline APD has passed for the current round at step . If the APD deadline has not passed the participant waits for players to advance into the bracket at step . If the APD has passed the tournament ends for that participant. Although ending the tournament due to a missed deadline may seem draconian this policy does serve a purpose. It requires participants to be proactive in order to advance to a next tournament round. Because tournament advancement is only available to those who actively seek it out the participants in each next tournament round are less likely to disconnect given that they actually made an effort to be moved into that round. As a result the number of unexpected disconnects decreases and player satisfaction increases. Alternatively once the APD has passed if the tournament participant has not played in a match the system may automatically advance the tournament participant into the next tournament round.

Although the online gaming service has been generally described as an implementation for matches with a binary result i.e. winner loser is should be appreciated that matches in a multilevel tournament can be for any number of players per match. For example a multilevel online tournament according to the present invention can be implemented to support groups of tournament participants playing single player racing games. Advancement in these games may be determined by whether each participant beats a time on a given track. Thus if the time is set to five minutes those who finish the race in less than five minutes advance to the next tournament round winners bracket the remaining participants to the next tournament round losers bracket. Subsequent times and tracks could then be determined based on the position in the topology for example WW bracket participants have a more difficult track or shorter time to beat than those in the WL bracket.

In other embodiments large 16 or 32 player deathmatch style games may be played. In these matches the goal for each participant is to stay alive until the end of the round. Those who are alive at the end of the round advance to the winners bracket. It is possible in these instances for all of the players to survive. In order to prevent tournaments from continuing indefinitely tournament creators may wish to limit the total number of rounds in advance. Alternatively the tournament could be a play until you drop marathon tournament. If no one survives the specified period or not enough players survive the tournament may advance a predetermined number of players who survived the longest.

In yet another aspect of the invention a connection loss handling mechanism is provided. In a tournament that is configured for team play as opposed to individual play a team may lose one or more players mid game due to QOS NAT issues. If the connection to the entire team is lost a match forfeit results. The team may rejoin the tournament but the match that they were playing is lost and the team advances to the next round losers bracket. The team however is permitted to continue playing in a situation where not all players have lost connection. The disconnected individual players may rejoin the game after they reconnect to oniline service . describes the steps that take place when an individual member of a team loses the connection and reconnects to the service.

At the individual team member loses the connection. Next at the individual team member attempts to log back into online services . If not successful the individual team member returns to where it again attempts to log in. At step the system determines whether the login is successful. If the login is successful at the individual team member is notified that they have a tournament matchup in progress and may rejoin the action. If the player chooses to join the ongoing matchup they are placed back into the game at . If the player chooses not to rejoin the tournament ends for them at .

As described above an online gaming service can provide multilevel online tournaments hosted endorsed by publishers of game titles the online gaming service and or end users. The multilevel online tournament format allows participants regardless of skill level to participate in multiple tournament rounds provides individual rankings for all participants not just the winner and allows players to progress through rounds without having to wait until a previous round is completed. The inventive method and system are also able to handle tournament scenarios where there are a non standard number of participants i.e. other than 2participants where x is an integer participants leave or get disconnected in mid tournament and or tournament participants are unable to connect to each other to play a match. The above described features and safeguards provide a more robust system and result in a higher user satisfaction level than previous known solutions.

The present invention has been described in terms of preferred and exemplary embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure.

