---

title: Media content management
abstract: System, computer implemented process and computer program product for managing media content among a plurality of devices which includes the exchange of device status data among two or more devices. The exchanged device status data includes individual device capabilities and indicia of available media content stored within each of the devices. Each device determines from the exchanged device status data whether any differences exist in available media content stored among the plurality of devices and also whether any of the determined differences in media content will require transcoding to compatible data formats. Once the determinations have been completed, synchronizing and optionally transcoding of the available media content is performed based on the determinations made from the exchanged device status data. Any required transcoding may be performed either before or after media content synchronizing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361298&OS=09361298&RS=09361298
owner: APPLE INC.
number: 09361298
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081208
---
The present disclosure generally relates to media content management and more specifically to synchronizing and transcoding of media content among a plurality of linked devices.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or implemented. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Maintaining consistent media content among a plurality of computer devices typically involves separately connecting each computer device to a master computer device and manually or semi manually deciding what media content to transfer between and among the plurality of computer devices. In another context the master device may be a network server that is configured to actively manage media content with a client computer device for example a desktop computer.

However as media content is asynchronously added to each individual computer device consistency in media content becomes increasingly difficult to maintain frequently resulting in lost or duplicated media content corrupted media content files and diminished satisfaction by users of these computer devices.

The corrupted media files frequently arise due to differences in file compatibilities among the various computer devices. Differences in file compatibilities further impact the user s ability to simply transfer media content between the various computer devices.

A system computer implemented process and computer program product for managing media content among a plurality of devices is described. In the following exemplary description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

A system computer implemented process and computer program product for managing media content among a plurality of devices is described herein. In an embodiment a computer implemented process for managing media content is provided. The computer implemented process includes the exchange of device status data among two or more devices. The exchanged device status data includes individual device capabilities and indicia of available media content stored within each of the devices.

Each device determines from the exchanged device status data whether any differences exist in available media content stored among the plurality of devices and also whether any of the determined differences in media content will require transcoding to compatible data formats. Once the determinations have been completed synchronizing and optionally transcoding of the available media content is performed based on the determinations made from the exchanged device status data. Any required transcoding may be performed either before or after media content synchronizing. Transcoding is dependent on each individual device s file requirements processing and or storage capabilities.

Each device maintains a device configuration library derived from the exchanged device status data. The device configuration library includes indicia of available media content individual device capabilities one or more compatible data formats and group affiliation s . In the event an affiliated group member device is absent during one or more processing communications sessions one or more of the devices may establish a queue to push remaining unsynchronized available media content to the absent affiliated group member device s upon reestablishment of a processing communication session. The queue may be established locally by the device s containing the unsynchronized available media content to be pushed to the absent affiliated group member device s and or may be established with a remote networked device and or another affiliated group member device. Transcoding of the media content pushed to the queue may be accomplished either before queue storage or by the receiving device.

In a systemic embodiment each device is in processing communications with one or more other devices and includes executable instructions to at least perform the above described computer implemented process. In a computer program product embodiment the above described executable instructions are stored on or in tangible computer readable media.

Referring to an ad hoc networking arrangement in accordance with an embodiment is depicted. In this embodiment a first device laptop is in processing communications over a communications link with a second device multi media player and with a third device cellular telephone . Each of devices includes datastores for storing of media content M M M and device configuration libraries L L L. Each device configuration library L L L includes information about its affiliated group member device for which exchange of available media content is permitted.

As is apparent each device is a type of intelligent computer device which includes a processor memory an operating system or operating environment and other components and functions as provided in the description accompanying the discussion for .

Each device is configured with programmatic instructions operatively loaded into its memory for execution by each device s processor a process for media content management as described in any of the discussions accompanying .

Media content M M M may be music video multimedia documents or data files encoded in any common format including but not limited to such exemplary file formats having extensions of .MP3 .MP4 .AVI .WAV .MPG .QT .M4V .M4A .M4B .M4P .AST .WMA .AIF .AU .RAM .RA .MOV .MIDI .DOC .XLS .PPT .BMP .IMG .GIF .AAS .JPEG .JPG .PNG .TIF .TIFF .WPF etc. which are compatible with the particular device the device s operating system operating environment and or applications installed on each device .

Communications link in which the devices are in processing communications is a peer to peer network using an ad hoc networking protocol.

In an embodiment when a device connects with another device each device exchanges device status data S S S. Device status data S S S provides information about the individual device s capabilities in terms of processing and data storage indicia of available media content compatible file formats allowed media content types and group affiliations. Information obtained from the exchanged device status data S S S is used by process for media content management to build rules about affiliated group member devices which are maintained in each device s device configuration libraries L L L. In an embodiment device status data S S S may be configured as a cookie digital certificate digital ticket ASCII string object or XML file.

In an embodiment each device is established as an affiliated group member device prior to synchronization of available media content. Group affiliations are established by user s of each device and are used to prevent unauthorized devices from exchanging or receiving available media content M M M with devices . As such in order to automatically synchronize media content between any of the devices each device must be previously assigned to an affiliated group. Alternatively a user may manually allow an unassigned device to join an affiliated group. Once a device is assigned to an existing affiliated group media content synchronizations may then be conducted with the newly added device.

Referring to a combination of ad hoc and conventional networking arrangement in accordance with an embodiment is depicted. In this embodiment device laptop is in processing communications with second device media player and with third device cellular telephone over a network while second device Media Player and third device cellular telephone are in processing communications with each other over communications link ad hoc network connection. Network may be either a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN . In this systematic embodiment the functionality is essentially the same as described in the discussion accompanying with the addition of routing device status data S S S over network to from device . In an embodiment addressing for networked device is performed using universal naming conventions UNC in conjunction with TCP IP protocols by devices . Alternate addressing mechanisms for example user dataform protocol UDP may be used as well in networked embodiments. Other than data routing and network management functions processing communications between and among devices is conducted as peer to peer. Peer to peer processing communications may include security provisions such as secure tunneling virtual private networking VPN secure socket layer SSL encrypted communications or secure shell encrypted communications SSH .

Referring to a conventional networking arrangement in accordance with an embodiment is depicted. In this embodiment device laptop is in processing communications with second device Media Player and with third device cellular telephone over network . This embodiment is essentially the same as described in the discussion accompanying with the addition of routing of all device status data S S S over network among and between devices .

In networked embodiments a network storage device may be connected to network . Network storage device includes a datastore . Datastore is used as a temporary storage area for media content M. Datastore may optionally maintain a device configuration library L for each of affiliated group devices . Network storage device is primarily used as an interim storage location for media content which has been queued for future downloading to an affiliated group member device which was absent e.g. offline during one or more processing communications sessions. A more detailed discussion of network storage device is provided in the discussion accompanying below.

Referring to an architectural arrangement for media content management in accordance with an embodiment is depicted. For clarity and ease of understanding processors memory and other hardware components are omitted from . One skilled in the art will appreciate that devices include the necessary components and features for an operable computer device as described in the discussion accompanying .

In an embodiment network storage device has a reduced functionality version of process for media content management which lacks or otherwise is not operable to perform media content transcoding. Process for media content management is depicted as having four separate modules for exemplary purpose only. One skilled in the art will appreciate that process for media content management may include various programs applications applets objects methods subroutines dynamically linked libraries services agents application programming interfaces processes and or subprocesses.

User interface modules are provided to allow a user to configure the operation of process for media content management . Synchronization modules are provided to synchronize available media content M M M M between and among devices when in processing communications over communications link and or network . Transcoding modules are provided to convert available media content M M M M into a format compatible with the devices in which available media content M M M M are to be synchronized. Transcoding of available media content M M M M may be performed prior to synchronization or post synchronization and is dependent on each device s processing capabilities and or required file format requirements. Device interface modules are provided to interface with operating systems and or runtime operating environments and hardware installed on devices . For purposes of illustration device cellular telephone is shown offline X from communications link .

Datastores are provided to store media content M M M M and maintain device configuration libraries L L L L for each device in which process for media content management is operable to synchronize and to optionally perform transcoding operations.

As briefly discussed above a user configures process for media content management by entering and or selecting parameters via user interfaces which controls the operation of process for media content management . For example the user may configure process for media content management to perform mirroring synchronization half duplex synchronization or full duplex synchronization by synchronization modules . In half or full duplex synchronization each device may be configured to maintain its existing media content separate from media content received from other devices. In this embodiment media content received from other devices is maintained in a dedicated storage pool specific to the sending device s .

For purposes of this specification mirroring synchronization copies renames and or deletes preexisting media content in datastores of devices involved in mirroring synchronization.

Half duplex synchronization copies media content from a source device to one or more target devices without overwriting existing media content on the receiving target devices.

Full duplex synchronization copies media content on a source device to one or more target devices and visa versa without overwriting of existing media content on either the source or target devices.

Processing communications includes communication handshakes device authentications user authentications device status data exchanges and transfers of media content between devices over communications link or network 

The user may also control transcoding functions performed by transcoding modules by entering and or selecting parameters for transcoding. For example preferred media content file format s compatible file formats compatible media content types relative estimates of processing capabilities e.g. 1 100 scale relative estimates of communications capabilities networked USB IRDA Bluetooth WIFI 3G and indicia of available media content. Other parameters such as username and password group affiliations e.g. MyPersonalCircle MyFriendsCircle device identifiers and available media content which is available for synchronization may also be entered and or selected using the user interfaces . In an embodiment determination of communications throughput processing and or storage capabilities are performed by separate software or firmware module s not shown and automatically recorded in device configuration libraries L L L L as part of initial device configuration.

In embodiments where a network storage device is not available a user may designate an affiliated group member device as a remote storage device for queuing available media content from another affiliated device which was absent during one or more processing communications sessions. This optional configuration is particularly useful when one device has limited processing storage and or communications throughput capabilities. Available media content which would normally be synchronized with an affiliated group member device is established in a remote queue awaiting reestablishment of a processing communications session with one or more previously absent devices.

In embodiments where network storage device is available media content may be pushed to network storage device for temporary storage awaiting receipt of device status data S S S S from a device absent from one or more processing communication sessions. Once a previously absent affiliated group member device establishes processing communications with at least network storage device queued media content stored on network storage device is then pushed to the previously absent affiliated group member device .

In an embodiment synchronization of available media content M M M is performed in a batch mode where an entire device s available media content may be copied to one or more different devices and visa versa as established by user device configurations of process for media content management as determined from established device rules and or according to user configuration settings. To prevent duplication of media content already present on a particular device screening is performed by each receiving device using indicia of available media content contained in device status data S S S S .

In an embodiment indicia of available media content includes one or more of a universal heart beat timestamp generated during the previous processing communication session file attributes e.g. file names file sizes file extensions and or file dates the actual media content files and or hashes of the available media content files. In an embodiment individual hashes of media content files may be used as search indices for media content M M M M stored in datastores . Hashing may be performed using any commonly available message digest algorithm including MD 5 SHA 1. Depending on the bit strength of the hashes created from the individual media content files collision avoidance may be provided by concatenating the resulting hashes with the universal heart beats.

In an embodiment indicia of available media content are compared with existing media content stored in datastores to determine if any of the incoming media content is to be rejected by one or more receiving devices. In addition each device may reject incoming media content if an incoming file or cumulative number of files are too large to be stored in a devices datastore and or is provided in an incompatible format for use by a particular device.

Continuing with the illustration of exchange of device status data S S between devices causes process for media content management to build device rules for device which are stored in a device configuration library L. Likewise process for media content management builds a set of device rules for device on device based on the device status data received from device . Again for purposes of illustration device has the capability of transcoding between WMA and MP3 file formats while device is limited to MP3 file formats only. Based on indicia of available media content exchanged in the device status data S S device determines that device is not synchronized with device . In an embodiment this determination may be made by comparison of universal heart beat timestamp data received by device from device to an existing universal heart beat timestamp data resident on device and or comparison of file attributes associated with the available media content.

In this embodiment device is off line X and not available to participate in a processing communications session. Implementation of network storage device will be discussed in conjunction with which follows below.

Referring to an architectural arrangement for media content management in accordance with an embodiment is depicted. Continuing with the illustration discussed with respect to device retrieves stored media content M from datastore and transcodes media content MC WMA using transcoding module . Transcoding module transcodes media content MC WMA from WMA file format to MP3 file format MC MP3 which is required by Device . Transcoded media content MC MP3 is then sent to synchronization module which routes transcoded media content MC MP3 to device interface module . Device interface module sends transcoded media content MC MP3 to device over communications link .

Device interface module of device receives transcoded media content MC MP3 and forwards transcoded media content MC MP3 to synchronization module for screening of duplicate media content determination of storage capacities and or determination of incompatible file formats for transcoding by transcoding module . Since transcoded media content MC MP3 is already in a compatible MP3 file format and assuming sufficient storage capacity exists device interface module stores transcoded media content MC MP3 in datastore . As discussed above transcoded media content MC MP3 may be consolidated with existing media content M not shown or maintained separately in a dedicated storage of media content M received from device in datastore .

Continuing with the above illustration since device was offline during the last processing communications session a queue may be established to push media content M to device when device establishes a processing communications session. In an embodiment device establishes a media content queue M locally when device reestablishes processing communications with device . In the event device cannot support a local media queue device can establish a media queue M on network storage device . Network storage device will then push media content contained in media queue M to device when device reestablishes processing communications with at least network storage device . To perform the remote queue functions network storage device is configured with a limited functionality process for media content management which allows access storage and distribution of media content while allowing user configured devices to control what media content is allowed to be received by each device. Network storage device is not normally configured to perform transcoding operations.

Analogously if media content M also needs to be pushed to device device may establishes a media content queue M either locally or on network storage device which will be pushed to device when device reestablishes processing communications with either device and or network storage device . Likewise device may contribute to the overall pool of available media content M on devices by sending its media content to devices .

Referring to a device data storage configuration is depicted in accordance with an embodiment. For illustrative purposes only device and its associated datastore are depicted. One skilled in the art will appreciate that any of devices may be similarly configured as well.

In an embodiment process for medic content management stores media content M in datastore along with information about affiliated group member devices in device configuration library L. The information about affiliated group member devices includes a set of device rules . Device rules includes device capabilities . Device capabilities include such parameters as device processing capabilities available memory maximum memory communications throughput available communications connectivity available communications security algorithms and device identity.

In an embodiment device rules further include compatible file formats . Compatible file formats includes those file formats which can be used by a particular device maximum size of individual media content files compatible file types based on file extensions whether transcoding should be performed prior to synchronizing or after receipt of media content files and available file compression algorithms.

In an embodiment device rules further include device affiliations with other affiliated group member devices. Device affiliations control which devices a particular device is permitted to exchange and or receive media content from.

In an embodiment device rules further include indicia of available media content . Indicia of available media content includes a hash of each media content file universal heartbeat timestamp of last synchronization one or more indices of available media content media content file attributes e.g. file names creation dates modification dates media content synchronization dates media content synchronization arrangements i.e. half duplex full duplex mirroring dedicated storage existing media content M and media content M M received from other devices .

In embodiments employing network storage devices device rules may include indicia of available media content queued to network storage device .

In an embodiment device configuration library L may be configured as a database or lookup table accessible by process for media content management .

Referring to a process for media content management is depicted. Process for media content management starts at block when a plurality of devices establish a processing communications session with one another device. The number of devices involved in processing communications is only limited by the maximum storage capacities of each device involved in processing communications. The processing communications may be performed using direct communication links local area networks wide area networks and any combination of these communications mechanisms. Media content synchronization and where necessary transcoding are performed automatically i.e. on the fly based on user configuration preferences and determined device capabilities.

At block once a processing communications session has been established among the devices each device exchanges its individual device status data among the plurality of devices involved in the processing communications session. The device status data includes but is not limited to indicia available media content device identifier device capabilities compatible data formats and affiliations as shown in block .

At block process for media content management determines if there are any differences in available media content based on the information included in the exchanged device status data.

At decision block if one or more affiliated devices are unavailable or otherwise absent from processing communications process for media content management continues at block . At block process for media content management establishes a media queue for unavailable affiliated member device s . Transcoding and location of the media queue i.e. local to a device or on a remote device is determined from information contained in exchanged device status data and or information stored in device configuration libraries.

Alternately at decision block if there are no unavailable devices process for media content management continues at block . At block process for media content management determines if differences in available media content requires transcoding to a compatible data format.

At block process for media content management performs synchronization of available media content among the plurality of devices base on of the determined differences in media content.

At block process for media content management performs transcoding of the available media content to a compatible data format based on the determined required transcoding accomplished at block . Transcoding may be performed before or after synchronization based on the information obtained from device status data and or device configuration library data as provided for at block .

At block process for media content management causes the synchronized media content to be stored in participating devices datastores.

At block process for media content management causes each participating device in the processing communications session to update maintain data contained in their associated device configuration libraries.

At block process for media content management monitors processing communications for a new device which establishes a processing communications session.

At decision block if a new device is detected in a processing communication session process for media content management repeats the processing sequence beginning at block .

Alternately at decision block if no new device is detected in a processing communications session process for media content management continues to decision block .

At decision block process for media content management determines whether the processing communications session has ended. Processing communications may be terminated by all devices being powered down or by user s logging off the devices involved in the processing communications session.

At block if the processing communications session has ended process for media content management ends.

Alternately at decision block if processing communications session has not ended process for media content management resumes monitoring processing communications for new devices as provided for at block .

Referring to a computer device upon in which the various embodiments may be implemented is depicted. For purposes of illustration only computer device is used to describe the various features and components generally common to all computer devices associated with the various exemplary embodiments described herein. Computer device includes a bus or other communication infrastructure for communicating information and a processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer device also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM and or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory may also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer device further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and executable instructions.

Computer device further includes an operating system or operating environment which may utilize any commonly encountered multitasking operating system operating environment including but not limited to any version of Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows Mobile Microsoft Windows CE any version of Linux Unix Apple OS X Palm OS Symbian OS or any other multitasking operating system operating environment.

Computer device may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or light emitting diode display LED for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Input device provides interrupt signals to processor that may be used to interpret user interactions with device and may be used in conjunction with the display . In an embodiment another type of user input device i.e. pointing device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. One skilled in the art will appreciate that not all devices will have the exact cursor control or user interface shown in . For example a touch screen may replace or supplement a standard mouse. Other auxiliary and peripheral devices such as a soundcard printer or scanner may be assumed to present where necessary to implement the various exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The various inventive embodiments described above are related to the use of computer device for implementing the techniques described herein. According to an embodiment those techniques are performed by computer device in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions for process for media content management are contained in main memory which causes processor to execute process for media content management . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention for example process for media content management may be encoded into a application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a processor to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using device various computer readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to storage media and transmission media. Storage media includes both non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire fiber optical cables atmosphere and includes the electrical connections that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of radio frequency or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red IRDA data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into for example device .

Where necessary computer programs algorithms and routines are envisioned to be programmed in a high level language object oriented language for example Java C C C CORBA Visual Basic. Database components may utilize any common database program by way of example and not limitation ORACLE Sequel Server MySQL SQL MS ACCESS DB2 MS FOXBASE DBASE PostgreSQL MS EXCEL and RBASE. Likewise web browsers such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Apple Safari Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox may be programmed using JavaScript Python Perl Ruby Scheme Tcl HTML XHMTL etc.

For purposes of this specification the term process is intended to be interpreted in its broadest sense to include all instructions executable by a processor whether embodied in hardware or software. Where applicable references to various processes may be made in both singular and plural form. No limitation is intended by such grammatical usage as one skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple programs processes objects subprograms subroutines algorithms applets contexts etc. may be implemented programmatically to implement the various inventive embodiments.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape and or any other physical medium which can be convert from physical manifestations of executable instructions or data into computer executions data and or data objects. In an embodiment computer readable media includes RAM PROM EPROM EEPROM FLASH EPROM FLASH RAM USB dongle or thumb drive application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer device can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal IrDA . An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer device also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a communications link that may be connected to a network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card DSL modem analog modem or cellular modem to provide a data communication connection over a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . Equivalent networking capabilities may be established using a cable modem over a cable television network. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Communication interface is intended as a general purpose networking transceiver which is generally compatible with IEEE networking standards for example 802.3 Ethernet 802.11 wireless networking 802.16 802.22. Alternately or in combination with any general purpose networking digital cellular communications formats compatible with for example GSM 3G 4G CDMA TDMA and evolving cellular communications standards as well as direct connections via universal serial bus USB port RS 232C serial port IEEE 1394 Firewire or IEEE 802.3 Ethernet crossover cabling arrangements.

Communications link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other devices. For example through a network to other devices or to data stored on a network storage device . Communications link and network use electrical electromagnetic and or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer device are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer device can send messages and receive data including executable code through network s communications link and communication interface . For example device might transmit a requested code for an application program through network communications link and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer device may obtain application code and or data in the form of a carrier wave and transform the information impressed on the carrier wave into stored computer readable media.

In the foregoing specification exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is set forth in the claims that accompanying this application. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation sequence of operation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

