---

title: Transmission device, reception device, and OFDM transmission method
abstract: SP signals to be transmitted from a first transmitting antenna are arranged in the same pattern as SP signals to be transmitted from a second transmitting antenna. The SP signals to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in one symbol are generated, such that the polarity of the SP signals are alternately inverted and non-inverted with respect to the SP signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in the same symbol. Thus, in the direction that the symbol number is incremented by 1 and the carrier number is incremented by 3, the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are all inverted or non-inverted with respect to the polarity of corresponding SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08559536&OS=08559536&RS=08559536
owner: Panasonic Corporation
number: 08559536
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080619
---
The present invention relates to a data transmission technique using OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing with pilot signals scattered on a carrier symbol plane.

OFDM is a transmission method according to which a large number of mutually orthogonal carriers are modulated with digital data to be transmitted and the resulting modulated waves are multiplexed and transmitted. With an increase in the number of carriers used the symbol duration increases as compared with a single carrier transmission method at the same transmission rate. This makes the OFDM transmission more robust to the effect of multi path propagation. In OFDM in addition a redundant duration called a guard interval is inserted between adjacent symbols to avoid the inter symbol interference that multi path propagation would cause.

However in a multi path the phases and amplitudes of the individual carries vary so that the receiver needs to compensate equalize the distortion in phase and amplitude. In one scheme employed widely for the equalization pilot signals of which phase and amplitude are known to the receiver are transmitted in some of the cells i.e. the transmission units identified by combinations of the symbol number and the carrier number contained in an OFDM signal. The receiver estimates the channel characteristics by using the pilot signals and equalizes the received signal by using the estimated channel characteristics.

For example according to DVB T Digital Video Broadcasting Terrestrial system which is the standard for the broadcast transmission of digital terrestrial television in Europe and ISDB T Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting Terrestrial system in Japan pilot signals called SPs Scattered Pilots are scattered on a carrier symbol plane hereinafter referred to as k n plane in a pattern shown in See Non Patent Documents 1 and 2 listed below . In each figure showing a signal arrangement pattern of SP signals the vertical axis represents a time axis and n represents a symbol number whereas the horizontal axis represents a frequency axis and k represents a carrier number. In addition an open circle represents a cell carrying an SP signal whereas a black dot represents a cell carrying data. Data referred herein includes data representing video and audio information and also include control information such as TPS Transmission Parameter Signaling in DVB T and TMCC Transmission Multiplexing Configuration Control in ISDB T. In each figure showing a signal arrangement pattern of SP signals on the k n plane the symbol numbers starts from 0 and the carrier numbers starts from 0.

Here let Tu represents the useful symbol duration Tg represents the guard interval duration and Ts Tu Tg represents the symbol duration. Then the interval between adjacent cells in the same carrier in the direction of the time axis is equal to Ts and the interval between adjacent cells in the same symbol in the direction of the frequency axis is equal to 1 Tu.

In SP signals in each symbol appear at an interval of 12 carriers and SP signals in each carrier appear at an interval of 4 symbols. The position of each SP signal is shifted by three carriers per symbol. That is when k n denotes the carrier number of a cell containing an SP signal in a symbol having the symbol number n this carrier number k n satisfies the following Equation 1 where mod is a modulus operator and p is an integer greater than or equal to 0. 3 mod 4 12 Equation 1 

Each SP signal is modulated based on the pseudo random binary sequence w and the amplitude and phase of the SP signal is determined depending exclusively on the carrier number k of the cell containing that SP signal and not on the symbol number n.

With reference to the following describes the principles of the channel estimation and equalization performed by the receiver by using SP signals. is a block diagram showing the structure of a typical receiver.

In a receiver a signal received with a non illustrated receiving antenna is subjected to predetermined processes by non illustrated components including a tuner. The processed signal is supplied to a Fourier transform unit where signal parts each containing a useful symbol duration Tu are clipped from the supplied signal and the Fourier transform is applied to the clipped signal parts to convert the clipped signal parts into a reception signal Y n k . The converted reception signal Y n k is output to a division unit and also to an SP extraction unit . The SP extraction unit extracts a reception SP signal Y n k n from the reception signal Y n k and outputs the extracted reception SP signal Y n k n to a division unit .

An SP generation unit generates a nominal SP signal Y n k n which is identical to an SP signal generated by the transmitter and outputs the SP signal Y n k n to the division unit . The division unit divides the reception SP signal Y n k n by the SP signal Y n k n and outputs the division result as the channel response H n k n to an interpolation unit . The interpolation unit interpolates the channel response H n k n on the k n plane to estimate the channel response H n k for each cell and outputs the thus estimated channel response H n k to the division unit .

The division unit divides the reception signal Y n k by the channel response H n k to estimate a transmission signal X n k and outputs the thus estimated transmission signal X n k .

Through the above processes the distortion in amplitude and phase of the transmission signal caused by multi path is compensated using SP signals See Patent Document 1 for example .

In addition disclosed is the application of MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output techniques which employ multiple antennas at both the transmitter and receiver to achieve high speed and high capacity data transmission to a digital terrestrial television broadcasting using SP signals such as DVB T See Non Patent Document 3 for example .

First the following describes the overview of a MIMO transmission system in which the transmitter and the receiver both have two antennas with reference to . is a diagram showing such a MIMO transmission system.

A transmitter transmits a first transmission signal and a second transmission signal from a first transmitting antenna and a second transmitting antenna respectively. The first transmission signal is obtained by applying the inverse Fourier transform to a first transmission signal Xc and the second transmission signal is obtained by applying the inverse Fourier transform to a second transmission signal Xc n k . Note that the first and second transmission signals are simultaneously transmitted respectively on the cells each having the symbol number n and the carrier number k.

A receiver receives a first reception signal with a receiving antenna . The first reception signal contains the first transmission signal arrived via a channel Pc and the second transmission arrived via a channel Pc. The receiver applies the Fourier transform to the first reception signal to obtain a first reception signal Yc . In addition the receiver receives a second reception signal with a receiving antenna . The second reception signal contains the second transmission signal arrived via a channel Pc. The receiver applies the Fourier transform to the second reception signal to obtain a second reception signal Yc n k . The receiver then conducts a predetermined process on the first reception signal Yc and the second reception signal Yc and outputs the first transmission signal Xc and the second transmission signal Xc .

Here let Hc Hc Hc and Hc n k respectively denote the channel responses of channels Pc Pc Pc and Pc at the cell having the symbol number n and the carrier number k. Let Nc and Nc denote the noise power contained in the first reception signal Yc and in the second reception signal Yc respectively. Then the first reception signal Yc and the second reception signal Yc are expressed by Equation 2 shown below. The notation in Equation 2 represents a matrix.

That is once the channel responses of the channels Pc Pc Pc and Pc are estimated the receiver is able to separate and equalize the first transmission signal Xc n k and the second transmission signal Xc by using Equation 3 shown below where Hc Hc Hc and Hc are the channel responses estimated by the receiver . In Equation 3 the notation represents a matrix and the notation represents the inverse matrix of .

Non Patent Document 3 describes a technique for enabling separation and estimation of channel responses of two channels from two transmitting antennas to one receiving antenna by transmitting SP signals arranged in the pattern shown in from the first transmitting antenna and SP signals arranged in the pattern shown in from the second transmitting antenna. In a plus sign indicates that the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is not inverted with respect to the polarity of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. On the other hand a minus sign indicates that the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is inverted with respect to the polarity of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna.

That is of the SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna the polarity of each SP signal having an even symbol number is not inverted and of each SP signal having an odd symbol number is inverted with respect to the polarity of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna.

The receiver observes for each symbol where the symbol number n is an even number components representing the sum of the channel responses of the two channels one of which is from the first transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna and the other is from the second transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna hereinafter the former is referred to as first channel response and the latter as second channel response . On the other hand for each symbol where the symbol number n is an odd number components representing the difference between the first and second channel responses are observed. Therefore the receiver can separate and estimate the first channel response by adding the sum components and the difference components and the second channel response by subtracting the difference components from the sum components.

The following now considers the range in which a channel response is duly estimated on condition that SP signals are arranged in the pattern shown in which is used in the DVB T system as well as in the ISDB T system.

As shown in the minimum interval between SP signal responses on the fplane in the axis direction is equal to Tu 12. It is because SP signals on the k n plane are arranged to appear one for every 12 carriers in the same symbol. In other words the sampling interval in the k axis direction is equal to 12 Tu. Further the minimum interval between SP signal responses on the fplane in the faxis direction is equal to 1 4Ts . It is because SP signals on the k n plane are arranged to appear one for every 4 symbols in the same carrier. In other words the sampling interval in the n axis direction is equal to 4Ts. Still further the minimum interval between SP signal responses on the fplane at the same Doppler frequency in the axis direction is equal to Tu 3. It is because the minimum interval between SP signals on the k n plane in the k axis direction is equal to 3 carriers. Still further the minimum interval between SP signal responses at the same delay time on the fplane in the faxis direction is equal to 1 Ts. It is because the minimum interval between SP signals on the k n plane in the n axis direction is equal to one symbol.

In the case where an impulse response of a channel has a delay spread the response spreads in the axis direction as compared with a corresponding SP signal response. In the case where a Doppler spectrum of a channel has a frequency spread the spectrum spreads in the faxis direction as compared with a corresponding SP signal response.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 3 in the axis direction and a width of 1 4Ts in the faxis direction is the region in which the channel response is interoperated without causing aliasing distortion hereinafter referred to as interpolatable region . According to the DVB T and ISDB T systems the length of the longest guard interval duration is Tu 4. With the guard interval duration equal to Tu 4 the spread of the impulse response of the channel equal to Tu 4 or less would not adversely affect the reception quality. It is because the inter symbol interference is ensured to fall within the guard interval duration. The width of the interpolatable region in the axis direction is set to Tu 3 in order to allow a margin for practical filters and yet to ensure a correct estimation of a channel response without incurring the risk of inter symbol interference.

As described above in terms of the design details of a transmission system the guard interval duration and the SP signal arrangement are closely related. That is in order not to impair the tolerance to multi path delay provided by insertion of guard interval durations the minimum interval between SP signals on the k n plane in the k axis direction needs to be shorter than a predetermined interval. In terms of the transmission efficiency however it is desirable to keep to a minimum the density of SP signals which do not carry any useful information. That is there is a trade off between the guard interval duration and the SP signal arrangement.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 12 in the axis direction and a width of 1 Ts in the faxis direction is a region in which the channel response is interoperated without causing aliasing distortion hereinafter referred to as interpolatable region .

The following now considers the range in which channel response is duly estimated with the SP signal arrangement disclosed in Non Patent Document 3 which is used for a MIMO transmission system.

The process of inverting and not inverting the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna is equivalent to an arithmetic operation of multiplying individual SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by the complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 4 shown below. The complex plane wave has an equi phase line parallel to the k axis direction on the k n plane and the cycle in the n axis direction is equal to 2n.

Note that in Equation 4 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t.

Accordingly the response of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is said to be shifted the response of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by 1 2Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

In view of the above the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signals from the second transmitting antenna are expressed on the same fplane as shown in . Note that a black dot represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna whereas a cross represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna.

Note that the process of inverting and not inverting the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna shown in is to invert the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna at every third carrier in the frequency direction. In other words the process may be construed to be equivalent to an arithmetic operation of multiplying individual SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by the complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 5 shown below. The complex plane wave has an equi phase line parallel to the n axis on the k n plane and the cycle in the k axis direction is equal to 6k.

Note that in Equation 5 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation k Tuf. In addition the phase term in Equation 5 is attached with a negative sign. It is because the delay in the positive direction along the axis corresponds to the phase rotation exp j2 f in the negative direction in proportion to the frequency f.

Based on the above understanding it is said that the response of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is shifted the response of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by Tu 6 in the axis direction on the fplane. It is thus apparent from that each response shown in is equivalent to that obtained by shifting the response of a corresponding SP signal shown in by 1 2Ts in the faxis direction.

The receiver divides each received SP signal i.e. a mixed SP signal which is a mixture of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna by the nominal SP signal. As a result of the division the receiver obtains a channel response which is a mixture of a channel response of the channel from the first transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna the first channel response and a channel response of the channel from the second transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna the second channel response .

The first channel response has the spreading from the black dots shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum. Similarly the second channel response has the spreading from the crosses shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 6 in the axis direction and a width of 1 4Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the first and second channel responses are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated without causing crosstalk therebetween.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 12 in the axis direction and a width of 1 2Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the first and second channel responses are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated without causing crosstalk therebetween.

From a comparison of the interpolatable region shown in with the interpolatable separable region shown in it is shown that the width Tu 6 of the interpolatable separable region in the axis direction is a half of the width Tu 3 of the interpolatable region in the axis direction. As mentioned above it is preferable to set the axis direction width in which correct estimation of the first and second channel responses is ensured in a manner not to impair the tolerance to multi path delay provided by insertion of guard interval durations. However the SP signal transmission method described in Non Patent Document 3 is associated with the following problem even without considering any margin to be allowed for practical filters used for interpolation and separation. That is in the case where the guard interval duration is longer than Tu 6 specifically where the guard interval duration is equal to Tu 4 for example the tolerance to multi path delay achieved by the insertion of guard intervals is impaired and thus the first and second channel responses may not be correctly estimated.

In addition from a comparison of the interpolatable region shown in with the interpolatable separable region shown in it is shown that the width 1 2Ts of the interpolatable separable region in the faxis direction is a half of the width 1 Ts of the interpolatable region in the faxis direction. As clarified above the SP signal transmission method according to Non Patent Document 3 has a problem in the ability of following the time variation of a channel.

In view of the problems noted above the present invention aims to provide a transmitter a receiver and an OFDM transmission method each of which achieves the following advantages in the case where a plurality of pilot signals are transmitted from a plurality of transmitting antennas. The transmitter receiver and OFDM transmission method according to the present invention ensure correct estimation of a channel response involving a delay spread to the comparable to the case where pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna or ensure the ability to follow the time variation of a channel to the extent comparable to the case where pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna.

In order to achieve the above aim a transmitter according to one aspect of the present invention has first to Mtransmitting antennas where M is an integer equal to or greater than 2 and is for transmitting an OFDM signal obtained by modulating a plurality of carriers per symbol duration. The OFDM signal contains pilot signals scattered on a carrier symbol plane. On the carrier symbol plane k denotes a carrier number n denotes a symbol number k denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same symbol n denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same carrier and p denotes an integer greater than or equal to 0. nand keach denotes a nonzero integer and m denotes an integer satisfying 1 m M. When 2 m M neither m 1 nnor m 1 kis equal to an integral multiple of M. The carrier number k n of a carrier that transmits a pilot signal in a symbol with the symbol number n satisfies Equation 6.

The transmitter includes a generating unit operable to generate a plurality of pilot signals as mpilot signals for an Mantenna where 1 m M such that a phase difference between a phase of each Mpilot signal and a phase of a reference pilot signal is equal to a value given by Equation 7.

The transmitter further includes a transmitter operable to transmit from the mtransmitting antenna an OFDM signal containing the mpilot signals generated by the generating unit.

According to the above described aspects of the present invention it is ensured that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same Doppler frequency on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas and also that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same delay time on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas. By virtue of this the transmitter transmits pilot signals from the first to Mtransmitting antennas to ensure that the receiver is able to estimate the channel responses as long as the delay spread of the pilot signals is the same level that can be accurately estimated when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna or able to follow the channel s time variability with the accuracy that would be achieved when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna.

One aspect of the present invention provides a first transmitter having first to Mtransmitting antennas where M is an integer equal to or greater than 2 and for transmitting an OFDM signal obtained by modulating a plurality of carriers per symbol duration. The OFDM signal contains pilot signals scattered on a carrier symbol plane. On the carrier symbol plane k denotes a carrier number n denotes a symbol number k denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same symbol n denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same carrier and p denotes an integer greater than or equal to 0. nand keach denotes a nonzero integer and m denotes an integer satisfying 1 m M. When 2 m M neither m 1 nnor m 1 kis equal to an integral multiple of M. The carrier number k n of a carrier that transmits a pilot signal in a symbol with the symbol number n satisfies Equation 8.

The first transmitter includes a generating unit operable to generate a plurality of pilot signals as mpilot signals for an mantenna where 1 m M such that a phase difference between a phase of each mpilot signal and a phase of a reference pilot signal is equal to a value given by Equation 9.

The first transmitter further includes a transmitter operable to transmit from the mtransmitting antenna an OFDM signal containing the mpilot signals generated by the generating unit.

According to the above described aspects of the present invention it is ensured that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same Doppler frequency on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas and also that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same delay time on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas. By virtue of this the first transmitter transmits pilot signals from the first to Mtransmitting antennas in a manner that the receiver is able to estimate the channel responses involving a delay spread to the extent that would be expected when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna or to follow the channel s time variability with the accuracy that would be achieved when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a second transmitter consistent with the first transmitter wherein the generating unit includes a reference signal generating unit operable to generate a plurality of first pilot signals each first pilot signal being the reference pilot signal and a multiplication unit operable to generate the mpilot signals where 2 m M each mpilot signal being generated by multiplying the reference pilot signal by a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 10 on the carrier symbol plane.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a third transmitter consistent with the first transmitter wherein the generating unit includes a reference signal generating unit operable to generate a plurality of first pilot signals each first pilot signal being the reference signal and a phase rotation unit operable to generate the mpilot signals where 2 m M each mpilot signal being generated by rotating the phase of the reference pilot signal by the value given by Equation 9.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a fourth transmitter consistent with the first transmitter wherein M is equal to 2. The generating unit includes a reference signal generating unit operable to generate a plurality of first pilot signals each first pilot signal being the reference signal and a polarity inversion unit operable to generate a plurality of second pilot signals such that polarities of the second pilot signals are each alternately inverted and not inverted in a carrier direction with respect to a polarity of a corresponding reference signal in a same symbol.

According to the above described aspects of the present invention a means for readily generating the first to msets of pilot signals is provided.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a fifth transmitter consistent with the first transmitter wherein M is equal to 2 n is equal to 4 k is equal to 12 nis equal to 1 and kis equal to 1.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a sixth transmitter consistent with the first transmitter wherein M is equal to 2 n is equal to 4 k is equal to 12 nis equal to 1 and kis equal to 3.

The above described aspects of the present invention are directly applicable for example to the DVB T system or the ISDB T system.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a first receiver for receiving an OFDM signal transmitted from a transmitter having a plurality of first to Mtransmitting antennas where M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 . The OFDM signal is obtained by modulating a plurality of carriers per symbol duration. The OFDM signal contains a plurality of pilot signals scattered on a carrier symbol plane. On the carrier symbol plane k denotes a carrier number n denotes a symbol number k denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same symbol n denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same carrier and p denotes an integer greater than or equal to 0. nand keach denotes a nonzero integer and m denotes an integer satisfying 1 m M. When 2 m M neither m 1 nnor m 1 kis equal to an integral multiple of M. The carrier number k n of a carrier that transmits a pilot signal in a symbol with the symbol number n satisfies Equation 11.

A plurality of pilot signals transmitted from an mone of the transmitting antennas where m is an integer satisfying 1 m M are Mpilot signals such that a phase difference between a phase of each Mpilot signal and a phase of a reference pilot signal is equal to a value given by Equation 12.

The first receiver includes a receiving antenna with which the OFDM signal from the transmitter is received a response estimation unit operable to estimate a channel response of each of first to Mchannels respectively from the first to Mantennas to the receiving antenna the estimation being carried out based on Equation 12 and pilot signals contained in the OFDM signal received with the receiving antenna and a signal estimation unit operable to estimate first to Mtransmission signals based on the received OFDM signal and the estimated channel responses of the first to Mtransmission channels the first to Mtransmission signals corresponding to first to MOFDM signals transmitted respectively from the first to Mtransmitting antennas.

According to the above described aspects of the present invention it is ensured that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same Doppler frequency on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas and also that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same delay time on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas. By virtue of this when pilot signals are transmitted from the first to Mtransmitting antennas the receiver is able to estimate the channel responses involving a delay spread to the extent that would be expected when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna or to follow the channel s time variability with the accuracy that would be achieved when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a second receiver consistent with the first receiver wherein the response estimation unit is operable to extract pilot signals from the OFDM signal received with the receiving antenna divide each extracted pilot signal by the reference pilot signal and estimate the channel response of the first channel based on a result of each division and further operable to estimate the channel response of mchannel where 2 m M based on the result of each division and Equation 12.

According to the above described aspect of the present invention the channel response of the mchannel is readily estimated.

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a first OFDM transmission method for transmitting an OFDM signal from a transmitter having first to Mtransmitting antennas where M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 . The OFDM signal is obtained by modulating a plurality of carries per symbol duration. The OFDM signal contains pilot signals scattered on a carrier symbol plane. On the carrier symbol plane k denotes a carrier number n denotes a symbol number k denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same symbol n denotes an interval between pilot signals in a same carrier and p denotes an integer greater than or equal to 0. nand keach denotes a nonzero integer and m denotes an integer satisfying 1 m M. When 2 m M neither m 1 n nor m 1 k is equal to an integral multiple of M. The carrier number k n of a carrier that transmits a pilot signal in a symbol with the symbol number n satisfies Equation 13.

The first OFDM transmission method includes the step of generating a plurality of pilot signals as mpilot signals for an mantenna where 1 m M such that a phase difference between a phase of each Mpilot signal and a phase of a reference pilot signal is equal to a value given by Equation 14.

The first OFDM transmission method further includes the step of transmitting from the mtransmitting antenna an OFDM signal containing the mpilot signals generated in the generating step.

According to the above described aspects of the present invention it is ensured that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same Doppler frequency on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas and also that the responses of pilot signals appearing at the same delay time on the fplane are all transmitted from only one of the first to Mtransmitting antennas. By virtue of this the transmitter transmits pilot signals from the first to Mtransmitting antennas in a manner that the receiver is able to estimate the channel responses involving a delay spread to the extent that would be expected when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna or to follow the channel s time variability with the accuracy that would be achieved when pilot signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna.

The following describes embodiments of the present invention with reference to the accompanying drawings.

First a first embodiment of the present invention is described with reference to the drawings. In the following description a useful symbol duration is denoted by Tu and a guard interval duration is denoted by Tg and a symbol duration is denoted by Ts Tu Tg similarity to the description of a conventional examples given above.

A MIMO transmission system according to the present embodiment is described with reference to . is a diagram showing the configuration of the MIMO transmission system according to the present embodiment.

The MIMO transmission system shown in includes a transmitter having two transmitting antennas and and a receiver having two receiving antennas and .

The transmitter transmits a first transmission signal and a second transmission signal from a first transmitting antenna and a second transmitting antenna respectively. The first transmission signal is obtained by applying the inverse Fourier transform to a first transmission signal X whereas the second transmission signal is obtained by applying the inverse Fourier transform to a second transmission signal X . The first and second transmission signals are simultaneously transmitted respectively on the cells each having a symbol number n and a carrier number k. Note that each the first and second transmission signals transmitted from the first and second transmitting antenna and is a signal generated by modulating multiple mutually orthogonal carriers with data to be transmitted as well as with other data followed by multiplexing of the resultant modulated waves.

The receiver receives with the receiving antenna a first reception signal containing the first transmission signal arrived via a channel P and the second transmission signal arrived via a channel P and applies the Fourier transform to the first reception signal to obtain a first reception signal Y . In addition the receiver receives with the receiving antenna a second reception signal containing the first transmission signal arrived via a channel P and the second transmission signal arrived via a channel P and applies the Fourier transform to the second reception signal to obtain a second transmission signal Y . The receiver then conducts a predetermined process on the first reception signal Y n k and the second reception signal Y n k and outputs a first transmission signal X n k and a second transmission signal X n k .

Before the detailed description of the transmitter and the receiver shown in a description is given of the description of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna .

The SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in mentioned above. The value of the complex number of each SP signal allocated to a cell is equal to the complex number of a typical SP signal allocated to a corresponding cell in the DVB T and ISDB T systems.

In contrast the SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . Note that a plus sign in indicates that the polarity of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in a cell represented by a plus sign is not inverted with respect to the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in a corresponding cell having the same symbol number and the same carrier number. On the other hand a minus sign in indicates that the polarity of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in a cell represented by a minus sign is inverted with respect to the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in a corresponding cell with the same symbol number and the same carrier number.

As shown in the SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the same pattern as the SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna . In addition both the patterns of SP signal arrangement satisfy that the carrier number k n of a cell transmitting an SP signal in the symbol having the symbol number n satisfies Equation 1 described above.

The SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in one symbol are alternately inverted and not inverted in polarity with respect to the SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in the same symbol. In the direction that the symbol number is incremented by 1 and the carrier number is incremented by 3 the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are all inverted or non inverted with respect to the polarity of corresponding SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna .

The process of inverting or not inverting the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna is equivalent to an arithmetic operation of multiplying individual SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by the complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 15 shown below. The complex plane wave has a cycle equal to 8n in the n axis direction and a cycle equal to 24k in the k axis direction on the k n plane.

Note that in Equation 15 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

Accordingly the response of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is said to be shifted the response of a corresponding SP signal to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by Tu 24 in the axis direction and 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

In view of the above the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are expressed on the same fplane as shown in . Note that a black dot in represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna whereas a cross represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna .

The receiver divides each received SP signal by the nominal SP signal to obtain a mixed channel response which is a mixture of a channel response of the channel from the first transmitting antenna to one of the receiving antennas either the first receiving antenna or the second receiving antenna and a channel response of the channel from the second transmitting antenna to the one of the receiving antennas the former channel response is referred as the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the latter is referred to as the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna .

However the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna has the spreading from the black dots shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum. Similarly the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna has the spreading from the crosses shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 3 in the axis direction and a width of 1 8Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as an interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated from each other without causing crosstalk.

From a comparison of with the following is noted on condition that SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in and that SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . Here the width of the interpolatable separable region in the axis direction is Tu 3 which is equal to the width of the interpolatable region in the axis direction shown in . As mentioned above the interpolatable region shown in is a region in which the channel response of SP signals are transmitted from a single transmitting antenna is interoperated without causing aliasing distortion. As described above the width in the axis direction in which correct estimation of both the channel responses related to the first and second transmitting antennas and is ensured is set so as not to impair the tolerance to multi path delay provided by insertion of guard interval durations.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 24 in the axis direction and a width of 1 Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as an interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated from each other without causing crosstalk therebetween.

From a comparison of with the following is noted on condition that SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in and that SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . Here the width of the interpolatable separable region in the faxis direction is 1 Ts which is equal to the width of the interpolatable region in the faxis direction shown in . As mentioned above the interpolatable region shown in is a region in which the channel response of SP signals transmitted from a single transmitting antenna is interoperated without causing aliasing distortion. That is the faxis direction width of a region in which correct estimation is ensured for both the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna is not impaired at all. In other words the ability of following the channel s time variability is not impaired.

In the responses appearing at the same Doppler frequency are a mixture of the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna. Therefore the impulse responses of the respective channels share the same region in the axis direction. Also the responses appearing at the same delay time are a mixture of the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna. Therefore the Doppler spectrums of the respective channels share the same region in the faxis direction.

In in contrast the responses appearing at the same Doppler frequency are exclusively of the responses of SP signals transmitted from either of the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . Therefore the impulse responses of the respective channels are allowed to occupy mutually different regions in the axis direction. Also the responses appearing at the same delay time are exclusively of the responses of SP signals transmitted from either of the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . Therefore the Doppler spectrums of the respective channels are allowed to occupy mutually different regions in the faxis direction.

The difference noted above is derived from the difference in the shift direction and shift amount of SP signals on the fplane in other words from the difference in the direction and frequency of the equi phase lines of SP signals on the k n plane.

As described above according to the present embodiment that uses the two SP signal arrangements shown in the interpolatable separable region is extended widthwise in the or faxis direction as compared with the interpolatable separable region in the conventional case where the two SP signal arrangements shown in are used. As described above the interpolatable separable region refers to a region in which the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interpolated without causing aliasing distortion and separated from each other without causing crosstalk therebetween.

With reference to the following describes the structure of the transmitter shown in . is a diagram showing the structure of the transmitter shown in .

As described above the transmitter has the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . Additionally the transmitter has an SP generation unit a complex plane wave generation unit a multiplication unit a mapping unit a cell allocation unit an inverse Fourier transform unit a guard interval insertion unit a mapping unit a cell allocation unit an inverse Fourier transform unit and a guard interval insertion unit .

The SP generation unit generates SP signals modulated based on the pseudo random binary sequence w. The SP generation unit outputs the generated SP signals to the cell allocation unit and also to the multiplication unit . The SP signals output to the cell allocation unit are used as SP signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna . The amplitude and phase of each SP signal is determined only by the carrier number k of the cell to which the SP signal is allocated and thus independently of the symbol number n.

The complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 16 below and outputs the generated complex plane wave to the multiplication unit .

The multiplication unit multiplies an SP signal received from the SP generation unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result of the multiplication to the cell allocation unit where the result of the multiplication is used as an SP signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna . Note that the process of the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the SP signal received from the SP generation unit by Tu 24 in the axis direction and by 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane. It goes without saying that an SP signal and a complex plane wave used in a multiplication of that SP signal are of a pair having the same symbol number and the same carrier number.

The mapping unit receives data on which a predetermined process has been conducted. The mapping unit maps data composed of a predetermined number of bits at a predetermined bit unit onto a predetermined constellation and outputs data resulting from the mapping to the cell allocation unit .

Note that the mapping units and may use any of various types of constellations such as constellations for PSK Phase Shift Keying QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation and APSK Amplitude Phase Shift Keying .

The cell allocation unit allocates SP signals input from the SP generation unit i.e. SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna to cells specified by Equation 1 mentioned above and allocates data input from the mapping unit to the other cells. As a result of the allocation in this manner the cell allocation unit constitutes frames and output a frame signal relating to the frames to the inverse Fourier transform unit .

The inverse Fourier transform unit applies symbol by symbol the inverse Fourier transform to the modulated symbols i.e. data output from the mapping unit and SP signals output from the SP generation unit allocated to the cells corresponding to the carriers included in the frame signal input from the cell allocation unit thereby to carry out the OFDM modulation. As a result of the OFDM modulation the inverse Fourier transform unit generates a modulated signal having a useful symbol duration Tu into which multiple mutually orthogonal carriers are modulated and multiplexed. The modulated signal having the useful symbol duration Tu is then output to the guard interval insertion unit .

The guard interval insertion unit generates a signal having a guard interval duration Tg hereinafter the signal is referred to as guard interval signal based on the modulated signal of the useful symbol duration Tu input from the inverse Fourier transform unit . The guard interval insertion unit then inserts the guard interval signal to the modulated signal having the useful symbol duration Tu and outputs the resulting modulated signal hereinafter referred to as OFDM signal . The OFDM signal output from the guard interval insertion unit is subjected to predetermined processes including digital to analog conversion frequency conversion to the transmission band and amplification and then transmitted as the first transmission signal from the first transmitting antenna .

Note that each guard interval signal inserted to the modulated signal by the guard interval insertion units and corresponds to a guard interval part of a signal obtained by cyclically and continually repeating a modulated signal of the useful symbol duration Tu. In one specific example given for the purpose of description the guard interval signal is a signal having the duration Tg and identical to a latter part of the modulation signal of the useful symbol duration Tu. Alternatively the guard interval signal may be a signal modulated based on a predetermined pseudo random binary sequence or a zero amplitude signal.

The mapping unit receives data on which a predetermined process has been conducted. The mapping unit maps data composed of a predetermined number of bits at a predetermined bit unit onto a predetermined constellation and outputs data resulting from the mapping to the cell allocation unit .

The cell allocation unit allocates the multiplication result input from the multiplication unit i.e. an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna to cells specified by Equation 1 mentioned above and data input from the mapping unit to the other cells. As a result of the allocation in this manner the cell allocation unit constitutes frames and output a frame signal relating to the frames to the inverse Fourier transform unit .

The inverse Fourier transform unit applies symbol by symbol the inverse Fourier transform to the modulated symbols i.e. data output from the mapping unit and the multiplication result output from the multiplication unit allocated to the cells corresponding to the carriers included in the frame signal input from the cell allocation unit thereby to carry out the OFDM modulation. As a result of the OFDM modulation the inverse Fourier transform unit generates a modulated signal having a useful symbol duration Tu into which multiple mutually orthogonal carriers are modulated and multiplexed. The modulated signal having the useful symbol duration Tu is then output to the guard interval insertion unit .

The guard interval insertion unit generates a signal having a guard interval duration Tg hereinafter the signal is referred to as guard interval signal based on the modulated signal having the useful symbol duration Tu input from the inverse Fourier transform unit . The guard interval insertion unit then inserts the guard interval signal to the modulated signal having the useful symbol duration Tu and outputs the resulting modulated signal hereinafter referred to as OFDM signal . The OFDM signal output from the guard interval insertion unit is subjected to predetermined processes including digital to analog conversion frequency conversion to the transmission band and amplification and then transmitted as the second transmission signal from the second transmitting antenna as the second transmission signal.

With reference to the following describes operations of the transmitter having the structure described above.

The SP generation unit generates SP signals and outputs the generated SP signals to the cell allocation unit and also to the multiplication unit . The SP signals output to the cell allocation unit are used as SP signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna . In addition the complex plane wave generation unit generates the complex plane wave expressed by Equation 16 and outputs the generated complex plane wave to the multiplication unit . The multiplication unit multiplies each SP signal received from the SP generation unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result of the multiplication to the cell allocation unit where the received multiplication result is used as an SP signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna .

The mapping unit conducts the mapping process on the input data and outputs the mapped data to the cell allocation unit . The cell allocation unit organizes frames by allocating SP signals input from the SP generation unit i.e. an SP signal to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna as well as data input from the mapping unit to cells constituting the frames. The cell allocation unit then outputs a frame signal relating to the frames to the inverse Fourier transform unit . The inverse Fourier transform unit applies the inverse Fourier transform symbol by symbol to the frame signal received from the cell allocation unit thereby generating a modulated signal of each useful symbol duration Tu. The guard interval insertion unit inserts a signal of the guard interval duration Tg guard interval signal to the modulated signal of each useful symbol duration Tu to generate a modulated signal OFDM signal in which the symbol duration Tu and the guard interval signal repeatedly appear. The guard interval insertion unit then outputs the OFDM signal which is then subjected to a predetermined process and transmitted from the first transmitting antenna as the first transmission signal.

The mapping unit conducts a mapping process on the input data and outputs the mapped data to the cell allocation unit . The cell allocation unit organizes frames by allocating SP signals input from the SP generation unit i.e. an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna as well as data input from the mapping unit to cells constituting the frame. The cell allocation unit outputs a frame signal relating to the frames to the inverse Fourier transform unit . The inverse Fourier transform unit applies the inverse Fourier transform symbol by symbol to the frame signal received from the cell allocation unit thereby generating a modulated signal of each useful symbol duration Tu. The guard interval insertion unit inserts a signal of a guard interval duration Tg guard interval signal to the modulated signal of each useful symbol duration Tu to generate a modulated signal OFDM signal in which the symbol duration Tu and the guard interval signal repeatedly appear. The guard interval insertion unit then outputs the OFDM signal which is then subjected to a predetermine process and transmitted from the second transmitting antenna as the second transmission signal. Note that the second transmission signal is output in synchronism with the first transmission signal to ensure that cells having the same symbol number and the same carrier number of the two transmission signals are simultaneously transmitted.

With reference to the following describes the structure of the receiver shown in . is a diagram showing the structure of the receiver shown in .

As described above the receiver has the first receiving antenna and the second receiving antenna . Additionally the receiver has a guard interval removable unit a Fourier transform unit a channel separation estimation unit a guard interval removable unit a Fourier transform unit a channel separation estimation unit and a signal separation equalization unit .

The first receiving antenna receives a first reception signal from the transmitter . The first reception signal is a mixed signal of the first transmission signal OFDM signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the second transmission signal OFDM signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna . The first reception signal received with the first receiving antenna is subjected to a predetermined process and then input to the guard interval removable unit .

The guard interval removable unit removes the guard interval durations from the received first reception signal and outputs the first reception signal remaining after the removable of the guard interval durations to the Fourier transform unit

The Fourier transform unit receives the first reception signal from the guard interval removable unit . The Fourier transform unit applies the Fourier transform to each signal part carrying a useful symbol duration Tu thereby to carry out the OFDM demodulation frequency separation and outputs the first reception signal Y obtained as a result of the OFDM demodulation to the signal separation equalization unit and also to channel separation estimation unit .

The channel separation estimation unit separates and estimates the channel response H of the channel P and the channel response H of the channel P with the use of the first reception signal Y received from the Fourier transform unit . The channel separation estimation unit then outputs the channel responses H n k and H to the signal separation equalization unit .

The second receiving antenna receives a second reception signal from transmitter . The second reception signal is a mixed signal of the first and second transmission signals transmitted from the first and second transmitting antennas and of the transmitter respectively. The second reception signal received with the second receiving antenna is subjected to a predetermined process and then input to the guard interval removable unit .

The guard interval removable unit removes guard interval durations from the received second reception signal and outputs the second reception signal remaining after the removable of guard interval durations to the Fourier transform unit .

The Fourier transform unit receives the second reception signal from the guard interval removable unit . The Fourier transform unit applies the Fourier transform to each signal part carrying a useful symbol duration Tu thereby to carry out the OFDM demodulation. The Fourier transform unit then outputs the second reception signal Y obtained as a result of the OFDM demodulation to the signal separation equalization unit and also to channel separation estimation unit .

The channel separation estimation unit separates and estimates a channel response H of the channel P and the channel response H of the channel P with the sue of the second reception signal Y received from the Fourier transform unit . The channel separation estimation unit then transmits the estimated channel responses H and H to the signal separation equalization unit .

The signal separation equalization unit receives the first reception signal Y from the Fourier transform unit and also receives the second reception signal Y from the Fourier transform unit . In addition the signal separation equalization unit receives the channel responses H and H from the channel separation estimation unit and also receives the channel response H and H from the channel separation estimation unit .

The signal separation equalization unit computes Equation 17 shown below with the first reception signal Y n k the second reception signal Y and the channel responses H H H and H thereby separating and equalizing the first transmission signal X and the second transmission signal X . The signal separation equalization unit then outputs the first transmission signal X and the second transmission signal X . In Equation 17 notation H represent a matrix and the notation represents the inverse matrix of .

The following describes the details of the channel separation estimation units and shown in with reference to . is a diagram showing the structures of the channel separation estimation units and shown in .

The channel separation estimation unit includes an SP extraction unit an SP generation unit a division unit an interpolation unit a complex plane wave generation unit a multiplication unit and an interpolation unit .

With the use of Equation 1 described above the SP extraction unit extracts a first reception SP signal Y n k n from the first reception signal Y that is received from the Fourier transform unit . The SP extraction unit then outputs the extracted first reception SP signal Y n k n to the division unit .

The SP generation unit generates a nominal SP signal Y n k n which is identical to the SP signal generated by the SP generation unit of the transmitter . The SP generation unit then outputs the generated nominal SP signal Y n k n to the division unit and also to a later described division unit which is included in the channel separation estimation unit .

The division unit multiples the first reception SP signal Y n k n by the SP signal Y n k n and outputs the division result hereinafter referred to as the first mixed channel response to the interpolation unit and the multiplication unit .

The interpolation unit is provided with a low pass filter. With the use of the low pass filter the interpolation unit removes the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna from the first mixed channel response that is received from the division unit and interpolates the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna on the k n plane. In this way the channel response H at every cell is estimated. Then the interpolation unit outputs the estimated channel response H to the signal separation equalization unit . Note that the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit may be for example a low pass filter having a transfer function from Tu 6 to Tu 6 in the T axis direction and from 1 16Ts to 1 16Ts in the faxis in the direction see or a low pass filter with having a transfer function from Tu 48 to Tu 48 in the axis direction and from 1 2Ts to 1 2Ts in the faxis in the direction see . In practice it is desirable to employ a low path filter having a bandwidth determined in a manner of allowing for margin of error expected in practical filters.

The complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 18 shown below and outputs the generated complex plane wave to the multiplication unit and a later described multiplication unit of the channel separation estimation unit .

The multiplication unit multiplies the division result received from the division unit the first mixed channel response by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result to the multiplication hereinafter referred to as the first shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . Note that the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the first mixed channel response by Tu 24 in the axis direction and by 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane. It goes without saying that an SP signal and a complex plane wave used in a multiplication of that SP signal are of a pair having the same symbol number and the same carrier number.

The interpolation unit is provided with a low pass filter. With the use of the low pass filter the interpolation unit removes the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna from the first shifted and mixed channel response that is received from the multiplication unit and interpolates the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna on the k n plane. In this way the channel response H at every cell is estimated. Then the interpolation unit outputs the estimated channel response H to the signal separation equalization unit . Note that the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit may be for example a low pass filter having the same a transfer function as that of the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit .

The channel separation estimation unit includes an SP extraction unit the division unit an interpolation unit the multiplication unit and an interpolation unit . Note that the channel separation estimation unit may additionally include components equivalent to the SP generation unit and the complex plane wave generation unit .

With the use of Equation 1 described above the SP extraction unit extracts a second reception SP signal Y n k n from the second reception signal Y that is received from the Fourier transform unit . The SP extraction unit then outputs the second reception SP signal Y n k n to the division unit .

The division unit multiples the second reception SP signal Y n k n by the SP signal Y n k n and outputs the division result hereinafter referred to as the second mixed channel response to the interpolation unit and the multiplication unit .

The interpolation unit is provided with a low pass filter. With the use of the low pass filter the interpolation unit removes the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna from the second mixed channel response that is received from the division unit and interpolates the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna on the k n plane. In this way the channel response H at every cell is estimated. Then the interpolation unit outputs the estimated channel response H to the signal separation equalization unit . Note that the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit may be for example a low pass filter having the same a transfer function as that of the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit .

The multiplication unit multiples the division result the second mixed channel response received from the division unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result of the multiplication hereinafter referred to as the second shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . Note that the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the second mixed channel response by Tu 24 in the axis direction and 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane. It goes without saying that a second mixed channel response and a complex plane wave used in a multiplication of that second mixed channel response are of a pair having the same symbol number and the same carrier number.

The interpolation unit is provided with a low pass filter. With the use of the low pass filter the interpolation unit removes the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna from the second shifted and mixed channel response that is received from the multiplication unit and interpolates the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna on the k n plane. In this way the channel response H n k at every cell is estimated. Then the interpolation unit outputs the estimated channel response H to the signal separation equalization unit . Note that the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit may be for example a low pass filter having the same a transfer function as that of the low pass filter included in the interpolation unit .

The following describes operations of the receiver having the above described structure with reference to .

The first reception signal received with the first receiving antenna is subjected to the predetermine process and then input to the guard interval removable unit where guard interval durations are removed. After the guard interval removable by the guard interval removable unit the first reception signal is input to the Fourier transform unit where the Fourier transform is applied symbol by symbol to the first reception signal from which guard interval durations have been removed. As a result each signal part carrying a useful symbol duration Tu is converted into the first reception signal Y and the first reception signal Y is output to the signal separation equalization unit and also to the channel separation estimation unit .

In the channel separation estimation unit a nominal SP signal Y n k n is generated by the SP generation unit and a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 18 described above is generated by the complex plane wave generation unit .

The SP extraction unit extracts the first reception SP signal Y n k n from the first reception signal Y n k received from the Fourier transform unit and outputs the extracted first reception SP signal Y n k n to the division unit . The division unit divides the first reception SP signal Y n k n received from the SP extraction unit by the SP signal Y n k n generated by the SP generation unit . The division result the first mixed channel response is output to the interpolation unit and the multiplication unit .

The interpolation unit conducts the above described process on the first mixed channel response received from the division unit thereby estimating the channel response H n k to all the cells and outputs the estimated channel response H to the signal separation equalization unit .

The multiplication unit multiplies the division result the first mixed channel response received from the division unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result of the multiplication the first shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . The interpolation unit conducts the above described process on the first shifted and mixed channel response received from the multiplication unit thereby estimating the channel response H at every cell. The estimated channel response H is output to the signal separation equalization unit .

The second reception signal received with the second receiving antenna is subjected to the predetermined process and then input to the guard interval removable unit where guard interval durations are removed. After the guard interval removable by the guard interval removable unit the second reception signal is input to the Fourier transform unit where the Fourier transform is applied symbol by symbol to the second reception signal from which guard interval durations have been removed. As a result each signal part carrying a useful symbol duration Tu is converted into the second reception signal Y n k and the second reception signal Y is output to the signal separation equalization unit and also to the channel separation estimation unit .

In the channel separation estimation unit the SP extraction unit extracts the second reception SP signal Y n k n from the second reception signal Y received from the Fourier transform unit and outputs the extracted second reception SP signal Y n k n to the division unit . The division unit divides the second reception SP signal Y n k n received from the SP extraction unit by the SP signal Y n k n generated by the SP generation unit . The division result the second mixed channel response is output to the interpolation unit and also to the multiplication unit .

The interpolation unit conducts the above described process on the second mixed channel response received from the division unit thereby estimating the channel response H n k at every cell and outputs the estimated channel response H n k to the signal separation equalization unit .

The multiplication unit multiplies the division result received from the division unit the second mixed channel response by the complex plane wave generated by the complex plane wave generation unit and outputs the result of the multiplication the second shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . The interpolation unit conducts the above described process on the second shifted and mixed channel response received from the multiplication unit thereby estimating the channel response H at every cell. The estimated channel response H is output to the signal separation equalization unit .

The signal separation equalization unit computes Equation 17 described above with the first reception signal Y and the second reception signal Y that are received as a result of the above two processes performed in parallel and also with the channel responses H H n k H and H thereby separating and equalizing the first transmission signal X and the second transmission signal X . The signal separation equalization unit then outputs the first transmission signal X and the second transmission signal X .

The following describes a second embodiment of the present invention with reference to the drawings. Similarly to the first embodiment the present embodiment relates to an MIMO transmission system that includes a transmitter having two transmitting antennas and and a receiver having two receiving antennas and . Yet SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are different from those described in the first embodiment. In the following description of the present embodiment the same components as those employed in the first embodiment are denoted by the same reference numerals and the description thereof is omitted since the corresponding description given in the first embodiment is applicable.

Before the detailed description of the transmitter and the receiver according to the present embodiment a description is given of the description of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna both of which are included in the transmitter

The SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in described above. The complex number of each SP signal allocated to a cell is the same as the complex number of a typical SP signal allocated to the same cell according to the DVB T and ISDB T systems.

In contrast SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . Note that a plus sign in indicates that the polarity of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in a cell represented by a plus sign is not inverted with respect to the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in a corresponding cell having the same symbol number and the same carrier number. On the other hand a minus sign in indicates that the polarity of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in a cell represented by a minus sign is inverted with respect to the polarity of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in a corresponding cell having the same symbol number and the same carrier number.

As shown in the SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the same pattern as the SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna . In addition in both the patterns of the SP signal arrangement each cell carrying an SP signal within a symbol having the symbol number n has a carrier number k n that satisfies Equation 1 described above.

The SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna in one symbol are alternately inverted and not inverted in polarity with respect to corresponding signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in the same symbol. In the direction in which the symbol number is incremented by 3 and the carrier number is decremented by 3 the polarity of all the SP signals are inverted with respect to the polarity of corresponding SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna .

The process of inverting and not inverting the polarity of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna is equivalent to an arithmetic operation of multiplying individual SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by the complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 19 shown below. Here the complex plane wave has an equi phase line parallel to the k axis direction on the k n plane and the cycle in the n axis direction is equal to 8n and the cycle in the k axis direction is 8k.

Note that in Equation 19 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

Accordingly the response of each SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is said to be shifted the response of a corresponding SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by Tu 8 in the axis direction and 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

In view of the above the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are expressed on the same fplane as shown in . Note that a black dot in represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna whereas a cross represents a response of an SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna .

The receiver divides each received SP signal by the nominal SP signal to obtain a mixed channel response which is a mixture of a channel response of the channel from the first transmitting antenna to one of the receiving antennas the first receiving antenna or the second receiving antenna and a channel response of the channel from the second transmitting antenna to the one of the receiving antennas the former channel response is referred as the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the latter is referred to as the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna .

However the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna has the spreading from the black dots shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum. Similarly the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna has the spreading from the crosses shown in in accordance with the impulse response and Doppler spectrum.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 3 in the axis direction and a width of 1 8Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as an interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated without causing crosstalk therebetween.

From a comparison of with the following is noted. On condition that SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in whereas SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . Then the width of the interpolatable separable region in the axis direction is Tu 3 which is equal to the width of the interpolatable region in the axis direction shown in . As mentioned above the interpolatable region shown in is a region in which SP signals transmitted from a single transmitting antenna are interpolated without causing aliasing distortion. That is the axis direction width of the region in which correct estimation is ensured for both the channel responses related to the first and second transmitting antennas and falls within a range not impairing the tolerance to multi path delay achieved by the insertion of guard intervals.

From it is known that a rectangular region having a width of Tu 24 in the axis direction and a width of 1 Ts in the faxis direction is what is hereinafter referred to as an interpolatable separable region . In the interpolatable separable region the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interoperated without causing aliasing distortion and separated from each other without causing crosstalk therebetween.

From a comparison of with the following is noted on condition that SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in and that SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are arranged in the pattern shown in . That is the width of the interpolatable separable region in the faxis direction is 1 Ts which is equal to the width of the interpolatable region in the axis direction shown in . As mentioned above the interpolatable region shown in is a region in which the channel response of SP signals transmitted from a single transmitting antenna is interoperated without causing aliasing distortion. That is the f axis direction width of the region in which correct estimation is ensured for both the channel responses related to the first and second transmitting antennas and is not impaired at all. In other words the ability of following the channel s time variability is not impaired.

In the responses appearing at the same Doppler frequency are a mixture of the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna. Therefore the impulse responses of the respective channels share the same region in the axis direction. Also the responses appearing at the same delay time are a mixture of the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the responses of SP signals transmitted from the second transmitting antenna. Therefore the Doppler spectrums of the respective channels share the same region in the faxis direction.

In in contrast the responses appearing at the same Doppler frequency are exclusively of the responses of SP signals transmitted from either of the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . Therefore the impulse responses of the respective channels are allowed to occupy mutually different regions in the axis direction. Also the responses appearing at the same delay time are exclusively of the responses of SP signals transmitted from either of the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . Therefore the Doppler spectrums of the respective channels are allowed to occupy mutually different regions in the faxis direction.

As described above according to the present embodiment that uses the two SP signal arrangements shown in the interpolatable separable region is extended widthwise in the T or faxis direction as compared with the interpolatable separable region in the conventional case where the two SP signal arrangements shown in are used. As described above the interpolatable separable region refers to a region in which the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna are interpolated without causing aliasing distortion and separated from each other without causing crosstalk therebetween.

The following describes the structure of the transmitter with reference to . is a diagram showing the structure of the transmitter according to the present embodiment.

The transmitter includes a complex plane wave generation unit instead of the complex plane wave generation unit included in the transmitter .

The complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 20 below and outputs the generated complex plane wave to the multiplication unit .

Note that the multiplication unit according to the present embodiment multiplies an SP signal received from the SP generation unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit rather than by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit . The multiplication unit then outputs the result of the multiplication to the cell allocation unit where the received multiplication result is used as an SP signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna . The process of the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the SP signal received from the SP generation unit by Tu 8 in the axis direction and by 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

The following describes the structure of the receiver according to the present embodiment with reference to . is a diagram showing the structure of the receiver according to the present embodiment.

The receiver includes channel separation estimation units and instead of the channel separation estimation units and included in the receiver .

The channel separation estimation unit separates and estimates the channel response H of the channel P and the channel response H of the channel P with the use of the first reception signal Y received from the Fourier transform unit . The channel separation estimation unit then outputs the channel responses H n k and H to the signal separation equalization unit .

The channel separation estimation unit separates and estimates the channel response H of the channel P and the channel response H of the channel P with the use of the second reception signal Y received from the Fourier transform unit . The channel separation estimation unit then outputs the channel responses H n k and H to the signal separation equalization unit .

The following describes the details of the channel separation estimation units and shown in with reference to . is a diagram showing the structures of the channel separation estimation units and shown in .

The channel separation estimation unit includes a complex plane wave generation unit instead of the complex plane wave generation unit included in the channel separation estimation unit .

The complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave expressed by Equation 21 shown below and outputs the generated complex plane wave to the multiplication unit and the multiplication unit that is included in the channel separation estimation unit .

Note that the multiplication unit according to the present embodiment multiplies the division result the first mixed channel response received from the division unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit rather than by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit . The multiplication unit then outputs the result of the multiplication the first shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . Note that the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the first mixed channel response by Tu 8 in the axis direction and by 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

The channel separation estimation unit is of the same structure as the channel separation estimation unit . Note that the multiplication unit according to the present embodiment multiplies the division result the second mixed channel response received from the division unit by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit rather than by the complex plane wave received from the complex plane wave generation unit . The channel separation estimation unit then outputs the result of the multiplication unit the second shifted and mixed channel response to the interpolation unit . Note that the multiplication performed by the multiplication unit is equivalent to the process of shifting the second mixed channel response by Tu 8 in the axis direction and 1 8Ts in the faxis direction on the fplane.

The present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above. Various modifications including the following still falls within the scope of the present invention.

 1 The above embodiments are described using the term SP signal on the assumption that the DVB T or ISDB T system is employed. It should be noted however that the present invention is applicable to various other cases where a pilot signal having the amplitude and phase known to receivers are used.

 2 The first embodiment described above may be modified so that the complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 16 by 1 and that the complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 18 by 1.

The second embodiment described above may be modified so that the complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 20 by 1 and that the complex plane wave generation unit generates a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 21 by 1.

 3 The above embodiments are described on the assumption that the DVB T or ISDB T system is employed so that the interval between SP signals within the same symbol is described as 12 carriers and the interval between SP signals within the same carrier is described as 4 symbols. Then the carrier number k n of an SP signal satisfies Equation 1. Yet the present invention is applicable to a case where the arrangement pattern of pilot signals i.e. signals whose amplitude and phase are known to receivers on the carrier symbol plane is generalized as follows.

Let n denote the symbol number k denote the carrier number k denote the interval between pilot signals in the same symbol n denote the interval between pilot signals in the same carrier and p denote an integer greater than or equal to 0. Then the carrier number k n of a carrier transmitting a pilot signal satisfies Equation 22 shown below.

 3 A shows the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna in a generalized pattern of the SP signal arrangements satisfying Equation 22. In the distance between points A and B is equal to Tu Ak in the axis direction and to 1 Ts n in the faxis direction. Each pilot signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is so adjusted to coincide with a midpoint between the points A and B.

Accordingly pilot signals to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are generated by shifting the response of a corresponding pilot signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by Tu 2 k in the axis direction and 1 2Ts n in the faxis direction.

In view of the above the pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate reference pilot signals i.e. signals whose amplitude and phase are known to receivers and the same holds true for the following description and use the thus generated reference pilot signals as pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. In view of the above in addition the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 23 shown below. The multiplication unit is configured to multiply each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave and use the result of the multiplication as a pilot signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna.

Note that in Equation 23 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna the first or e second receiving antenna by the nominal pilot signal a reference pilot signal generated by the transmitter the same holds true for the following description . As a division result the receiver obtains what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the channel response of a channel from the first transmitting antenna to that receiving antenna the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response of a channel from the second transmitting antenna to that receiving antenna the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna . The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna from the mixed channel response. The complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver generates a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 24 shown below. The multiplication unit then multiples the mixed channel response by the thus generated complex plane wave. On the other hand the interpolation unit provided for the second transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna at every cell from the result of the multiplication by the multiplication unit.

Note that in Equation 24 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

Note that the complex plane wave generation unit included in the transmitter may be configured to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 23 by 1. Then the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver may be configured to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 24 by 1.

 3 B With reference to showing the response of pilot signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna the distance between points A and C is equal to 3Tu Ak in the Taxis direction and to 1 Ts n in the faxis direction. Each pilot signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna is so adjusted to coincide with a midpoint between the points A and C.

Such pilot signals to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna are generated by shifting the response of a corresponding pilot signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by 3Tu 2 k in the axis direction and by 1 2Ts n in the faxis direction.

In view of the above the pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate reference pilot signals and use the generated reference pilot signals as pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. In view of the above in addition the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 25 shown below. The multiplication unit is configured to multiply each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave and use the result of the multiplication as a pilot signal to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna.

Note that in Equation 25 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna the first or second receiving antenna by a nominal pilot signal. As a result of the division the receiver obtains what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the channel response of the channel from the first transmitting antenna to that receiving antenna the channel response related to the first transmitting antenna and the channel response of the channel from the second transmitting antenna to that receiving antenna the channel response related to the second transmitting antenna . The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna from the mixed channel response. The complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver generates a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 26 and the multiplication unit multiplies each mixed channel response by the complex plane wave. The interpolation unit provided for the second transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the second transmitting antenna from the result of the multiplication calculated by the multiplication unit.

Note that in Equation 26 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

Note that the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter may generate a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 25 by 1 and that the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver may generate a complex plane wave having a phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 26 by 1.

 4 According to the above embodiments transmission signals are transmitted from the first transmitting antenna and the second transmitting antenna . However the transmitter may have M transmitting antennas M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 . Here each of a set of pilot signals signals whose amplitude and phase are known to receivers transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna m is an integer satisfying 1 m M is referred to as an mpilot signal and arranged in the generalized pattern expressed by Equation 22 shown above.

In this case the first or second embodiment described above may be modified in the following manner for example.

 4 A With reference to showing the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna the distance between the points A and B is equal to Tu Ak in the axis direction and to 1 Ts n in the faxis direction. Each of the mpilot signals which are pilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M is so adjusted that the response of the pilot signal coincides with the m 1 point from the point A out of M 1 points determined by dividing the distance between the points A and B into M segments at even intervals.

Each of the mpilot signals which are pilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M is generated by shifting the response of a corresponding first pilot signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by m 1 Tu M k in the axis direction and m 1 MTs n in the faxis direction.

In view of the above the pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate reference pilot signals and use the thus generated reference pilot signals as first pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. For each mtransmitting antenna were 2 m M the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured in view of the above to generate a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 27. The multiplication unit is configured to multiply each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave and use the result of the multiplication as an mpilot signal to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna.

Note that in Equation 27 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna by the nominal pilot signal to obtain what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the multiple channels from the multiple transmitting antennas to the receiving antenna. The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna from the mixed channel response. For estimation of the response related to each mtransmitting antenna were 2 m M the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver generates a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 28 shown below. The multiplication unit multiplies each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave. The interpolation unit estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the mtransmitting antenna from the result of the multiplication computed by the multiplication unit.

Note that in Equation 28 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter may be modified to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 27 by 1. Then the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver may be modified to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 28 by 1.

 4 B With reference to showing the responses of SP signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna the distance between the points A and C is equal to 3Tu Ak in the axis direction and to 1 Ts n in the faxis direction. Each of a set of mpilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M is so adjusted that the response of the pilot signal coincides with the m 1 point from the point A out of M 1 points determined by dividing the distance between the points A and C into M segments at even intervals.

Each of the mpilot signals which are pilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M is generated by shifting the response of a corresponding first pilot signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna by 3 m 1 Tu M k in the axis direction and m 1 MTs n in the faxis direction.

In view of the above the pilot signal generation unit within the transmitter generates reference pilot signals and use the thus generated reference pilot signals as first pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. In addition the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured in view of the above to generate a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 29 for each mtransmitting antenna were 2 m M. The multiplication unit multiplies each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave and uses the result of the multiplication as an mpilot signal to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna.

Note that in Equation 29 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna by the nominal pilot signal to obtain what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the channel responses of the multiple channels from the multiple transmitting antennas to the receiving antenna. The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna from the mixed channel response. For estimation of each mtransmitting antenna were 2 m M the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver generates a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 30 shown below. The multiplication unit multiplies each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave. The interpolation unit estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the mtransmitting antenna from the result of the multiplication.

Note that in Equation 30 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

The complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter may be modified to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 29 by 1. Then the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver may be modified to generate a complex plane wave having the phase term calculated by multiplying the phase term of Equation 30 by 1.

In addition the modification described in 4 B above requires that 3 m 1 is not equal to an integral multiple of M where 2 m M.

 5 With reference to the following describes a further generalization of the SP signal transmission methods according to the embodiments described above. In a black dot represents a response of a first pilot signal transmitted from the first transmitting antenna whereas a cross represents the response of a second pilot signal transmitted from the second transmitting antenna. Here let M denote the number of transmitting antennas where M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 . Then a set of Mpilot signals transmitted from the Mtransmitting antenna where m is an integer satisfying 1 m M are arranged in the generalized pattern given by Equation 22 shown above.

In solid straight lines extend in parallel to the T or faxis to pass through the responses of first pilot signals. Similarly doted straight lines extend in parallel to the T or faxis to pass through the responses of second pilot signals.

The gist of the method for transmitting pilot signals from multiple transmitting antennas is to ensure that the responses of pilot signals transmitted from one transmitting antenna do not appear on the same lattice pattern with the responses of pilot signals transmitted from any other transmitting antenna.

The above signal arrangement is realized in the following manner. First the distance between each adjacent lines in the lattice pattern of the responses of first pilot signals transmitted from the first transmitting antenna is divided by M to define M different lattice patterns. Then sets of pilot signals transmitted from the respective transmitting antennas are so adjusted that their responses appear on mutually different lattice patterns.

In view of the above the pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate reference pilot signals and use the thus generated reference pilot signals as first pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. Also in view of the above in addition the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the transmitter is configured to generate a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 31 for each mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M . Then the multiplication unit multiplies each reference pilot signal by the thus generated complex plane wave and the result of the multiplication is used as a mpilot signal to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna.

Note that where 2 m M n and k are nonzero integers such that neither m 1 nnor m 1 kis an integral multiple of M.

In Equation 31 shown above the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

In addition Equation 31 above is equivalent to a process of shifting first pilot signals to a different lattice pattern defined by the M division of the original lattice pattern. In addition the condition required by Equation 31 that nand kare nonzero integers such that neither m 1 nor m 1 kis an integral multiple of M is to ensure that any of the lattice patterns of the pilot signal responses coincide with another.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna by a nominal pilot signal to obtain what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the channel responses of the multiple channels from the multiple transmitting antennas to the receiving antenna. The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna from the mixed channel response. For estimation of the response related to each mtransmitting antenna were 2 m M the complex plane wave generation unit provided within the receiver generates a complex plane wave expressed by the left side of Equation 32 shown below. The multiplication unit multiplies the mixed channel response by the thus generated complex plane wave. The interpolation unit then estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel responses at every cell and related to the mtransmitting antenna from the result of the multiplication computed by the multiplication unit.

Note that in Equation 32 the right side is obtained by rewriting the left side using the relation n 1 Ts t and k Tuf.

 6 In the embodiments and modifications described above the process of shifting the phase of a signal SP signal reception SP signal or the result obtained by the division by a nominal SP signal is carried out by generating a complex plane wave followed by multiplication of the signal by the thus generated complex plane wave. It is noted however this phase shift process is merely one example and without limitation. The phase shift may be carried out in the following manner for example.

 6 A Here let M denote the number of transmitting antennas M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 and a set of mpilot signals transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where m is an integer satisfying 1 m M are arranged in the generalized pattern given by Equation 22 shown above.

The pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter generates reference pilot signals and use the thus generated reference pilot signals as first pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. For each mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 the phase generation unit provided within the transmitter generates the phase of any of the complex plane waves generated by the complex plane wave generation unit also provided within the transmitter mentioned above. Then a phase rotation unit also provided within the transmitter rotates the phase of each reference pilot signal by the amount corresponding to the phase generated by the phase generation unit. The reference pilot signals after the phase rotation are used as mpilot signals which are a set of pilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna. Note that the phase rotation may be performed by employing a known algorithm such as CORDIC.

The receiver divides each pilot signal received with the receiving antenna by a nominal pilot signal to obtain what is hereinafter referred to as a mixed channel response . The mixed channel response is a mixture of the channel responses of the multiple channels from the multiple transmitting antennas to the receiving antenna. The interpolation unit provided for the first transmitting antenna estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the first transmitting antenna. For estimation each mtransmitting antenna where 2 m M M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 the phase generation unit provided within the receiver generates the phase of any of the complex plane waves generated by the complex plane wave generation unit that is also provided within the receiver and correspond to the phase generation unit provided within the transmitter. Then the phase rotation unit also provided within the receiver rotates the phase of each reference pilot signal by the amount corresponding to the phase generated by the phase generation unit. The interpolation unit estimates with the use of a low pass filter the channel response at every cell and related to the mtransmitting antenna from the mixed channel response after the phase rotation. Note that the phase rotation may be performed by employing a known algorithm such as CORDIC.

Regarding the transmitter the complex plane wave generation unit and the multiplication unit are replaced by the phase generation unit and the phase rotation unit. Regarding the receiver the complex plane wave generation unit and the multiplication unit are replaced by the phase generation unit and the phase rotation unit.

 6 B The pilot signal generation unit provided within the transmitter generates reference pilot signals and uses the thus generated reference pilot signals as pilot signals to be transmitted from the first transmitting antenna. The transmitter is provided with a polarity inversion unit instead of the complex plane wave generation unit and the multiplication unit. The polarity inversion unit inverts and does not invert the polarity of every other reference pilot signal within the same symbol thereby generating pilot signals to be transmitted from the second transmitting antenna.

 7 In the above description of the embodiments SP signals transmitted from a transmitting antenna other than the first transmitting antenna are generated by the multiplication phase rotation and polarity reversal of a complex plane wave. However this is merely one example and without limitation. SP signal transmitted from a transmitting antenna other than the first transmitting antenna may be generated in the following manner for example.

Let M denote the number of transmitting antennas where M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 and a set of mpilot signals transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where m is an integer satisfying 1 m M are arranged in the generalized pattern given by Equation 22 shown above.

It is sufficient to provide a means for generating a plurality of mpilot signals which are a set of pilot signals to be transmitted from the mtransmitting antenna where m is an integer satisfying 1 m M in a manner that the phase difference between each mpilot signal and the reference pilot signal is equal to the value given by Equation 33 shown below.

Mote that it is required that when 2 m M nand kare nonzero integers such that neither m 1 nor m 1 kis equal to an integral multiple of M.

 8 In the above description the transmitter has M transmitting antennas where M is an integer greater than or equal to 2 . Here M is the maximum number of transmitting antennas that the transmitter may use for transmission. In practice however the number of transmitting antennas actually used may be equal to or smaller than the number M.

 9 According to the above described embodiments the receiver conducts the processing sequentially by the division units and the multiplication units and the low pass filters included in the interpolation units and in the stated order. It should be noted however that the processing order is not limited to such. For example the processing by the respective units may be conducted in the order of the division units and high pass filters which are used as alternatives to low pass filters and the multiplication units and .

 10 It is possible to provide the transmitter with a mechanism for selectively switching between the SP signal transmission method according to the above described embodiments and a conventional SP signal transmission method.

The following are examples in which the SP signal transmission method according to the above embodiments is to be selected and executed. One is the case where the guard interval duration that is longer than the useful symbol duration is selected for example Tu 4 and the impulse response of the channel has the delay to the same extent as the guard interval duration. Another is the case where the delay of the impulse response is relatively short and the ability to follow the channel s time variability is to be improved.

On the other hand the following are examples in which a conventional SP signal transmission method is to be selected and executed. One is the case where the guard interval duration shorter than the useful symbol duration is selected. Another is the case where the delay spread of the impulse response and the channel s time variability are both relatively small.

Note that the transmitter may be modified to transmit control information which is TPC in the case of the DVB T system and TMCC in the case of the ISDB T system that includes information indicating the type of the complex plane wave. With this modification the receiver is able to select based on the control information a complex plane wave corresponding to the complex plane wave used at the transmitter side so that the subsequent processing is appropriately carried out.

In the case of the communications between one transmitter and one receiver the receiver may observe the impulse response and the time variability of the channel to judge which transmission method is suitable and pass the judgment result to the transmitter. The transmitter may switch the SP signal transmission method to a different method according to the judgment result received from the receiver.

 11 In the above embodiments the MIMO transmission system is described as an example. However the present invention is applicable to a MIMO transmission system having two or more transmitting antennas and two or more receiving antennas as well as to MISO Multiple Input Single Output transmission system.

In addition the present invention has been described above by way of an example in which a MIMO transmission system is used as a spatial multiplexing transmission system. Yet the present invention is applicable to a transmission diversity system which employs a coding scheme such as STC Space Time Coding STBC Space Time Block Coding and SFBC Space Frequency Block Coding .

 12 The transmitters and receivers consistent with the embodiments above may each be realized as an LSI Large Scale Integration which is a type of integrated circuits. The individual circuits may be implemented on separate chips or all or part of the circuits may be implemented on a single chip.

Although LSI is specifically mentioned herein the same may also be referred to an IC integrated circuit a system LSI a super LSI or ultra LSI depending on the packaging density.

The scheme employed for the circuit integration is not limited to LSI and the integrated circuit may be implanted by a dedicated circuit or a general purpose processor. It is also possible to use an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array which allows post manufacture programming of the LSI or to use a reconfigurable processor which allows reconfiguration of the connection between circuit cells within the LSI or setting of the circuit cells.

Furthermore if the advance in the field of semiconductor technology or in another technology derived therefrom introduces a new integration technology that replaces the LSI the new technology may be used to integrate the functional blocks. For example the application of biotechnology is one possibility.

The present invention is applicable to a digital broadcasting that transmits the transmission parameter information. The present invention is also to digital communications which involves the use of mobile telephones wireless LAN power line communications xDSL and so on.

