---

title: Systems and computer program products to manage the display of data entities and relational database structures
abstract: Systems and computer products that present typically large amounts of entity information with a graphical display that efficiently maps the display of a large number of OLAP objects to related relational database tables thereby retaining contextual information about the data associated with the objects and tables. The efficient mapping is enabled by the use of areas that contain and include objects. The preferred embodiment of the present invention enhances analysis, by OLAP techniques, of the objects and the associated relational database information. An embodiment of the present invention further operates in a recursive manner by enabling the objects to include and contain additional objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07904415&OS=07904415&RS=07904415
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07904415
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081003
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS TO MANAGE THE DISPLAY OF DATA ENTITIES AND RELATIONAL DATABASE STRUCTURES having application Ser. No. 10 318 749 filed Dec. 12 2002 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In pending application Ser. No. 10 319 056 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS TO MODIFY THE GRAPHICAL DISPLAY OF DATA ENTITIES AND RELATIONAL DATABASE STRUCTURES filed on Dec. 12 2002 by Tomlyn assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference there is described a method of modifying the graphical display of OLAP entities. Although not limited thereto the present invention employs such a method in one of its preferred embodiments.

The present invention is directed to the field of graphical displays of database information. It is more particularly directed to managing the graphical display of a typically large number of data objects that efficiently presents mapped information about the relationship between the data objects that are stored in a relational database and that are used in on line analytical processing.

A computer implemented database is a collection of data organized in the form of tables. A table typically consists of columns that represent data of the same nature and records that represent specific instances of data associated with the table. A relational database is a database that is typically a set of tables containing information that is manipulated in accordance with the relational model associated with the data. The product marketed under the trademarks IBM DB2 stores the data associated with the database in tables and each table has a name.

On Line Analytical Processing OLAP is a computing technique for summarizing consolidating viewing analyzing applying formulae to and synthesizing data according to multiple dimensions. OLAP software enables users such as analysts managers and executives to gain insight into performance of an enterprise such as a corporation through rapid access to a wide variety of data dimensions that are organized to reflect the multidimensional nature of enterprise data typically by means of hypotheses about possible trends in the data. More particularly OLAP techniques may be used to analyze data from different viewpoints by identifying interesting associations in the information in a database. Therefore OLAP is a decision support technique used in data management for the purpose of modeling and analyzing business information.

Data mining operations typically employ computer based techniques to enable users to query structured data stored in computers in forms such as multidimensional databases conventional databases or flat computer files. More particularly data mining involves extracting computer based information and enables a user to discover trends about the computer based information.

An increasingly popular data model for OLAP applications such as data mining is the multidimensional database MDDB . Often data analysts use MDDBs during interactive exploration of business data for finding regions of anomalies in the data. Before this data can be explored modeling needs to be enabled for the business. Modeling a business for an OLAP application may require large amounts of metadata including data entities.

In the past graphics tools have used objects such as rectangle displays to represent data entities such as relational database tables. The objects are displayed so that they present the relationships between the data contained in the relational database tables. There has been a problem representing the OLAP systems associated with the data while simultaneously representing the relational database data structures associated with the storage of the data. For instance data that is stored in a relational database is typically stored in the form of two dimensional tables. While OLAP data representation typically includes dimensional and measure data representation relational database information is represented in the two dimensional table format. Presentations in the past have attempted to show the mapping between the relational tables used to store the data and the OLAP objects that are presented for OLAP data analysis.

Representing the mapping of OLAP data to relational database data is difficult. Often OLAP dimensional data objects are comprised of a plurality of relational database tables and the plurality of relational database tables may include some of the same tables. By means of example OLAP data may include the number of sales that is measure data and also dimensional data about the type of products that were sold the time frame of the sales and the geographical market for the sales. In the past representation of such data might include multiple references to relational database tables that are used to represent a dimension or a measure.

Given the large amount of OLAP data associated with the plurality of tables in databases such as multidimensional databases and relational databases the related graphical representation may require a typically large number of objects. Therefore there may be many confusing representations of OLAP dimensions and measures when the mapped relational database table references are replicated to represent all their associations to OLAP dimensions and measures. This requires the data analyst to understand the complicated mapping structure in order to review information about the OLAP objects within the graphical display during analysis of OLAP data.

It would therefore be useful to be able to analyze typically large amounts of entity information with a graphical display that efficiently presents the mapping between the OLAP objects and the related relational database tables. When employing OLAP processing techniques it would be useful to be able to efficiently analyze multidimensional data with a graphical display that minimizes the disadvantages associated with current graphical displays. Graphical presentations in the past have not adequately displayed the mapping between the relational tables used to store the data and the OLAP objects that are presented for OLAP data analysis.

From the foregoing it will be apparent that there is still a need to improve the graphical display of a typically large number of objects so that the mapping between OLAP objects and related relational database tables is efficiently presented in order to enhance analysis of the objects and the associated data.

An embodiment of the present invention relates to systems methods and computer products that efficiently manage and present entity information in a graphical display. The graphical display efficiently maps OLAP objects that represent entity information to related relational database tables. An embodiment of the present invention enhances analysis of the objects and the associated database data by techniques such as data mining of relational database information and OLAP data. Techniques of the past have not been able to sufficiently retain contextual information about the data and thereby improve the graphical display of a typically large number of objects that are used with data analysis techniques such as data mining of relational database information multidimensional data and OLAP data.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention employs a technique that introduces areas that are containers for OLAP objects in the graphical display. These areas that represent OLAP objects contain other areas that represent database tables that are associated with the OLAP object. The preferred embodiment of the present invention advantageously keeps information about relational database tables together so that within a given area container the associated relational database tables are efficiently displayed. As discussed with reference to U.S. patent application 10 319 056 information represented in an area may be manipulated by techniques such as expansion reduction and movement to enhance OLAP data analysis techniques.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention may rely on a typical star schema layout of data entities that includes a facts object typically containing a single facts table in the center of the graphical display surrounded by dimension objects. A star schema is a set of relational tables including multiple main tables sometimes referred to as fact tables and related dimension tables wherein the dimension tables intersect the main tables via common columns and wherein the dimension tables are each associated with a column in the main tables corresponding to each of the rows in the dimension tables. Because a star schema is simple having few tables it minimizes the complexity required to process database operations. This helps both to increase performance speed and to ensure correct results of database operations. Therefore many relational databases have been built in a star schema configuration to minimize database management overhead.

More particularly the star schema comprises fact tables which are joined to one or more dimension tables according to specified relational or conditional operations. The fact tables hold measurement data while the dimension tables hold attribute data. The dimension tables are usually joined to the fact tables with an equivalence condition.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention takes advantage of the star schema configuration to manage graphical display of the OLAP entities and the database structures. Since the star schema configuration may be logically represented by areas that represent fact tables or dimensions the preferred embodiment of the present invention recognizes the affinity between associated objects in the area and represents the associated objects in the graphical display. That is the affinity of OLAP objects in the same area is recognized and exploited by an embodiment of the present invention that groups the database structures associated with the OLAP objects in the same area.

An embodiment of the present invention is achieved by systems methods and computer products that improve the graphical display of a typically large number of objects that may be used with data analysis techniques such as data mining of relational database information multidimensional data and OLAP data. A method comprises a identifying the entities in a collection of data b mapping the entities to objects that are represented in the graphical display c identifying the objects in at least one area and d associating the objects within each at least one area. It will be appreciated that the present invention may be embodied in a graphical display that represents greater than two dimensions such as a three dimensional graphical display. Also an embodiment of the present invention further operates in a recursive manner by enabling the objects to include and contain additional objects and areas.

An embodiment of the present invention novelly divides the graphical presentation into areas and allows objects to be manipulated independently within each area. More particularly an embodiment of the present invention efficiently presents typically large amounts of entity information with a graphical display that efficiently maps the display of OLAP objects to associated relational database tables thereby enhancing analysis of the objects and the associated relational database data by OLAP techniques. This provides added flexibility when attempting to present many objects concurrently. It will be appreciated that the operation of the present invention is not limited to a relational database a multidimensional database or OLAP applications but may be applied to any computer based graphical presentation that includes OLAP objects. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

In the following detailed description and in the several figures of the drawings like elements are identified with like reference numerals.

As shown in the drawings and for purposes of illustration the embodiment of the invention efficiently presents typically large amounts of entity information with a graphical display that efficiently maps objects to related relational database tables. An embodiment of the present invention enhances analysis of the objects and the associated database data by techniques such as data mining of relational database information and OLAP data. Existing systems have not been able to sufficiently improve the graphical display of a typically large number of objects that may be used with data analysis techniques.

The present invention may be implemented with a graphical display that includes at least one area that includes objects that represent data entities. The present invention enables users to analyze data represented as objects in a graphical display by representing associated OLAP objects in the area. OLAP objects may also include and contain other objects thereby representing the OLAP objects in a recursive configuration. The preferred embodiment of the present invention advantageously keeps information about relational database tables together so that within a given area container the associated relational database tables are efficiently displayed. This provides added flexibility when attempting to present OLAP objects concurrently.

According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention the object manager module operates by generating a graphical display that presents typically large amounts of entity information by efficiently displaying OLAP objects that represent the entity information and the OLAP objects are mapped to the related relational database tables in at least one area . Data entities may represent associations among objects and about which data may be stored in a database such as a multidimensional database . Therefore by the operation of the present invention users may manipulate and analyze a large number of objects and see at a glance the relationship between the objects and the relational database table that stores the associated data entity .

As shown in in the past it has been difficult to show on graphical displays the mapping between the relational tables used to store the data and the OLAP objects that are presented for OLAP data analysis. By further means of example an object may represent a data entity such as a facts table or a dimension table in a relational database . An object may alternatively represent OLAP data . In graphical displays of the past the objects were represented by either the names of relational tables or by the names of dimension objects . Typically when an OLAP object is minimized the dimension object name is displayed. When the OLAP object is maximized in the graphical display the names of the dimension objects and the relational tables are displayed. Therefore in the past the conceptual representation of OLAP objects was constrained to representations of relational database structures. The problems caused by manipulation of objects during analysis of the data entities in the graphical display include obscuring some of the objects and loosing the contextual reference of the objects thereby reducing the information available on the graphical display for data analysis. Such problems are exacerbated by the ambiguity associated with the labels of the OLAP objects when the representations of the OLAP objects are minimized. Elements and and and are described with reference to .

In the present example the following objects are represented Product Dimension Object Scenario Dimension Object Sales Fact Object Supplier Dimension Object Market Dimension Object Time Dimension Object and Accounts Dimension Object . The Market Dimension Object is associated with and represents dimensional tables such as the Market Details Table and the Market Table . By means of further explanation the Market Table includes the following columns PopulationID RegionID State and StateID . Also the Market Details Table includes the following columns Director Region and RegionID .

The problem in the past with the minimized representation of OLAP objects such as dimension objects is that the same label for the dimension objects has been used to represent and identify the dimensional object that is associated with different relational database tables such as dimension tables . This is ambiguous and leads to confusion during data analysis. In the present example the label Market Dimension Object is used to represent an association with at least the two dimension tables Market Details Table and Market Table .

By means of example the facts object FACTS OBJECT is mapped to the facts table TBC.FACT TABLE . A dimension object such as the Product Dimension Object may include specific dimension tables such as TBC.ATTRIBUTE OUNCES Table TBC.LOOKUP PRODUCT Table and TBC.ATTRIBUTE PACKAGE Table . Other dimension objects included in the present example are Market Dimension Object Time Dimension Object and Scenario Dimension Object . The dimension objects intersect the facts object via common columns and one dimension table is associated with a column in the fact table corresponding to each of the rows in the dimension tables . In the present example TBC.FACT Table is a specific instance of the fact table and is joined to one or more dimension tables according to specified relational or conditional operations. For example the Time Dimension Object.TBC.LOOKUP TIME Table is joined to the TBC.FACT Table . Elements and are described with reference to .

The preferred embodiment of the present invention takes advantage of the star schema configuration to manage objects in a particular area within a graphical display . For example the graphical display of the present example illustrates a star schema configuration . An area may include the Market Dimension Object and the Time Dimension Object . The affinity of objects in the same area is recognized and exploited by an embodiment of the present invention that groups objects into at least one area . Since the star schema configuration may be represented by a series of areas the preferred embodiment of the present invention illustrates affinity between associated objects within a star schema configuration and the associated database tables by manipulating the graphical representation of objects in areas .

Further the preferred embodiment of the present invention novelly enables representation of areas and objects in a recursive manner in which objects may include and contain additional objects or areas as shown in element .

The RAM the data storage device and the ROM are memory components that store data and instructions for controlling the operation of the processor which may be configured as a single processor or as a plurality of processors. The processor executes a program to perform the methods of the present invention as described herein.

While the program is indicated as loaded into the RAM it may be configured on a storage media for subsequent loading into the data storage device the ROM or the RAM via an appropriate storage media interface . Storage media can be any conventional storage media such as a magnetic tape an optical storage media a compact disk or a floppy disk. Alternatively storage media can be a random access memory or other type of electronic storage located on a remote storage system.

Generally the computer programs and operating systems are all tangibly embodied in a computer usable device or medium such as the memory the data storage device or the data transmission devices thereby making an article of manufacture such as a computer program product according to the invention. As such the terms computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer usable device or medium.

Moreover the computer programs and operating systems are comprised of instructions which when read and executed by the server computer system and the client computer system cause the server computer system and the client computer system to perform the steps necessary to implement and use the present invention. Under control of the operating system the computer programs may be loaded from the memory the data storage device or the data transmission devices into the memories of the server computer system and the client computer system for use during actual operations.

User interface is an input device such as a keyboard or speech recognition subsystem for enabling a user to communicate information and command selections to the processor . The user can observe information generated by the system via the display or the printer . The user input device is a device such as a mouse track ball or joy stick that allows the user to manipulate a cursor on the display for communicating additional information and command selections to the processor . Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the present invention.

When operating in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the system efficiently presents typically large amounts of entity information with a graphical display that maps OLAP objects to relational database tables for fast and efficient presentation of the typically large amount of data and that enables efficient analysis of the data . It will be appreciated that the present invention offers many advantages over prior art techniques. Elements and are described with reference to .

The present invention is typically implemented using one or more computer programs each of which executes under the control of an operating system and causes the server computer system and the client computer system to perform the desired functions as described herein. Thus using the present specification the invention may be implemented as a machine process method system or article of manufacture by using standard programming and engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof.

It should be understood that various alternatives and modifications might be devised by those skilled in the art. However these should not be viewed as limitations upon the practice of these teachings as those skilled in the art when guided by the foregoing teachings may derive other suitable characteristics of a similar or different nature. The present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variances that fall within the scope of the appended claims

IBM and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both.

