---

title: Tracking of autonomous systems
abstract: A system includes first and second transmitters attachable to first and second vehicles. The transmitters can each transmit successive signals at predetermined time intervals. Tracking stations at different locations are configured to receive the signals transmitted by at least one of the first and second transmitters, distinguish signals transmitted by the first transmitter from signals transmitted by the second transmitter, and determine from the transmitted signals respective position information for at least one of the first and second transmitters. Each of the tracking stations is further configured to be in signal communication with at least one other of the tracking stations. The system further includes at least one processing device in signal communication with at least one of the tracking stations. The processing device is configured to determine from the position information a location of the first vehicle relative to a location of the second vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07948439&OS=07948439&RS=07948439
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07948439
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080620
---
This invention was made with United States Government support funded by the U.S. Army Contracting Agency under Government Contract No. W9124Q 07 C 0687. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Many future concepts rely on small autonomous systems working together in groups or swarms. The small size and potentially large numbers of such systems that might be demonstrated together poses a severe challenge to existing range tracking systems to provide time and space position information TSPI for individual systems under test. The emphasis on increasing the level of autonomy for these systems further exacerbates the problem by removing humans from the control loop. Because of their autonomous behaviors it is even more important to maintain accurate TSPI for each platform involved. The TSPI is necessary to support range safety platform recovery operations and to provide useful information to the test sponsor on the relationship between individual platforms to aggregate group behavior.

Existing range radar and optical tracking systems are not equipped to provide TSPI in the Physical Battlespace domain for large numbers of small objects particularly in instances where a combination of air ground sea and or subsurface vehicles are used in concert. Such scenarios are being studied for use in a number of future applications. Examples include urban assault port security and homeland defense missions where unmanned systems operate together to not only collect information but to accomplish complex tasks without human intervention such as breaching structures and neutralizing threats. The use of collaborative unmanned vehicles allows task specialization between platforms as well as autonomous re tasking of assets to overcome loss or failure of others in the group. No test range currently exists that can unobtrusively monitor the actions of large groups of diverse autonomous systems. TSPI is required not only in support of range safety but also provide information to test sponsors allowing evaluation of group behavior. The potential for large numbers of small specialized autonomous systems combined with the unscripted autonomous behavior creates a difficult problem for existing range sensors to maintain TSPI for individual platforms within the group. Traditional methods of tracking small objects rely on the use of signature enhancers optical or RF that increase the object s signature allowing it to be tracked by existing range instrumentation radars or optical trackers. However these systems are relatively large and can require significant power to operate.

For small autonomous systems applying traditional translators or beacons may not be practical due to platform constraints on the payload size weight power consumption and or impacts to the platform s dynamic properties. Furthermore as the number of platforms involved in the test increases any concept that requires instrumentation of individual platforms must ensure that the instrumentation can be accomplished rapidly without the need for complex integration or calibration.

The nature of autonomous systems and the wide variety of potential missions that can be explored drive the need to perform testing under a very wide array of terrain vegetation and topologies. Instrumenting a permanent facility would not allow the user the flexibility needed to adequately test unmanned autonomous systems UAS or other systems under all desired conditions.

In an embodiment a system includes first and second transmitters attachable to first and second vehicles. The transmitters can each transmit successive signals at predetermined time intervals. Tracking stations at different locations are configured to receive the signals transmitted by at least one of the first and second transmitters distinguish signals transmitted by the first transmitter from signals transmitted by the second transmitter and determine from the transmitted signals respective position information for at least one of the first and second transmitters. Each of the tracking stations is further configured to be in signal communication with at least one other of the tracking stations. The system further includes at least one processing device in signal communication with at least one of the tracking stations. The processing device is configured to determine from the position information a location of the first vehicle relative to a location of the second vehicle.

Referring to an embodiment provides the ability to individually track numerous small autonomous systems including manned or unmanned aerial vehicles and or terrestrial based ground sea surface vehicles in varying terrain and conditions without impacting the performance of the autonomous systems. Such vehicles may be autonomous in that there is no active navigational control by human users during vehicle operation. A system according to an embodiment is portable and can be used in any terrain requiring only minimal test preparation and little support equipment. The system according to an embodiment includes a set of small micro beacons not shown in which may employ RF communication one of each of which are attached to a respective aerial vehicle and or surface vehicle . The system further includes a set of stationary ground tracking stations each of which receive and identify beacon signals transmitted by the micro beacons. By combining several ground tracking stations beacon relative positions can be computed through a locator method such as triangulation or multilateration by at least one processing device not shown in coupled to or otherwise associated with one or more of the tracking stations . Each of the tracking stations is configured to communicate with at least one other of the tracking stations via a wireless or wired approach. In an embodiment N tracking stations can track N 1 or more beacon bearing vehicles . In an embodiment at least two ground stations may be used to track N vehicles in two dimension and at least three ground stations may be used to track N vehicles in three dimensions where N is any number between 1 and the maximum number e.g. 257 correlators for a 255 bit Gold code .

The micro beacons are simple small self contained micro beacons that can be adhesively attached to each vehicle without requiring any data or power interface with the host vehicle . In order to compute and maintain position information for each micro beacon the ground tracking station can perform at least three functions 1 capture micro beacon signals 2 separate and identify individual beacon signals and 3 determine the bearing angle relative to the transmitting beacon. Measured lines of bearing from each ground tracking station can be combined in a processing device to perform triangulation or multilateration to estimate the positions of the beacon carrying vehicle or .

Attachment to the vehicles can be accomplished using a peel off self adhesive without need for power or data interfaces to the vehicles . This approach makes instrumentation of numerous small vehicles extremely quick and simple. The small size and light weight allows the micro beacon to be mounted on the vehicles where convenient such as on a chassis of the vehicle without significantly affecting the dynamics or stability of the vehicles . Larger vehicles can be instrumented with several micro beacons to improve tracking probability and performance.

In an embodiment power for the micro beacon may be supplied from a battery . The battery may be a single LiMgOcoin cell such as the commonly available CR2032 watch battery. Beacon operating time using this battery may be dependent upon transmit period data rate and beacon broadcast duration and may be approximately one week for typical operation at a 1 second transmit period. If longer durations are required other embodiments are available to accommodate this need. A larger battery such as the CR2477 can be used to increase total energy available at the expense of approximately 5 g of weight. Alternatively the period between beacon broadcasts can be increased to linearly increase the operating time at an expense of positioning accuracy.

The micro beacon further includes a transmitter and associated crystal . The transmitter operates in conjunction with an antenna . In an embodiment transmitter supports transmit power levels up to 10 dBm 10 mW over a frequency range between 300 MHz and 464 MHz. Supported modulation formats include 2 level frequency shift keying 2FSK Gaussian frequency shift keying GFSK minimum shift keying MSK or amplitude shift keying ASK at selectable data rates between 1.2 kbps and 500 kbps. In addition the transmitter can operate on up to 127 channels of selectable bandwidth including support for frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS transmission at a hopping rate of up to 12 500 hops sec.

The beacon in an embodiment also includes a processor such as an embedded 8 bit microcontroller that is capable of hosting and implementing optionally advantageous networking protocols. This processor can be used to implement a simple linear feedback shift register LFSR capable of generating pseudo noise PN sequences such as Gold codes. This PN sequence can act as the beacon s unique identification and allow a ground station to separate multiple simultaneous beacon signals. At periodic intervals the micro beacon can wake up from a low power sleep state transmit its unique PN code and then return to the low power sleep state.

Pseudo noise Gold codes may be preferable due to their property of having very low cross correlation coefficients between different codes as well as having excellent autocorrelation characteristics to allow signal separation. The longer the code the better the ability to identify and separate signals and the greater the number of simultaneous signals that can be separated. However longer codes consume more power or require higher data transmission rates which can negatively impact the beacon lifetime or operational range. As such other approaches may be utilized to facilitate combinations of code length transmit frequency and power consumption to match user needs. In an embodiment an 8 bit LFSR may be utilized resulting in 255 bit code length transmitted at 9600 bps.

In an embodiment a more full featured remote sensing radio solution that operates in the 300 400 MHz band may be employed. This solution uses the same transmitter integrated circuit but implements a much more full featured communications solution including higher transmit power 250 mW advanced mesh networking for 2 way data communication and extensive data interface capabilities within a 2 3 form factor.

In an embodiment a large portion of the system s complexity and processing is contained in the ground tracking stations . Each ground station may have at least five functions 1 capture micro beacon signals 2 separate multiple beacon signals from each other 3 compute the lines of bearing associated with transmitting beacons 4 collect measured lines of bearing from other ground tracking stations and 5 perform triangulation or multilateration to compute position for each received micro beacon .

In order to maximize the operation range of an embodiment of the system a high gain antenna may be desired. Simultaneously it is desirable to have each ground station be able to monitor a wide angle in space. One solution is to use a phased array antenna which receives multiple high gain beams. Digital beam forming allows multiple high gain beams to be spread over a wide area but the angular resolution of the received signal may be limited by the beamwidth of the received beams. For reasonably sized antennas e.g. on the order of 2 meters on edge the beamwidth of each beam at 433 MHz may be approximately 17 degrees. Smaller antennas may have a larger beamwidth. Thus angular resolution would only be on the order of several degrees at best.

Alternatively a desirable level of angular resolution can be achieved by using unitary antennas that are spaced over a longer baseline and performing time difference of arrival computations on the received signals to calculate angle of arrival. However because unitary antennas have lower gain than arrays operational range may be limited and the number of ground tracking stations required may increase. Yagi helical or panel type antennas can achieve 12 15 dBi gain resulting in 30 50 of the operational range of a high gain array for the same beacon transmit power. In addition these high gain antennas have a smaller beamwidth than is achievable using the digital beamformed array but this can be remedied by employing several antennas but not a phased array pointing in different directions to provide wider real beam coverage.

Processing for an array of long baseline antennas according to an embodiment is shown in and is similar in many ways to the approach described with reference to . In this case the received signals from each of M physical antennas are in a manner similar to that described with reference to downconverted digitized and sent to a parallel correlator structure similar in functionality to correlators also described with reference to . However when signals are identified they are time tagged using a high accuracy clock derived from GPS timing and sent to angle of arrival estimators along with time tagged correlations from other antenna elements. Using arrival time differences and knowledge of the antenna element spacing and orientation the angle of arrival can be computed and decomposed into azimuth and elevation angles of arrival to estimate the relative direction of the micro beacon with respect to the antenna boresight.

In either of the arrangements described with reference to and A B it is optionally advantageous to know the relative antenna locations and boresight directions. High accuracy position determination for the tracking stations can be accomplished using traditional surveying techniques or differential carrier phase GPS measurements. Ground station antenna boresighting can be accomplished using traditional approaches such as using theodolite or laser surveying equipment or it can be done in an ad hoc fashion for cases where antennas are within line of sight of each other by attaching a micro beacon to each ground station and computing the relative boresight directions between each ground station antenna pair.

Field programmable gate arrays FPGAs are optionally advantageous to performing highly parallel computations such as required for code correlation. Alternative implementations can also be used that require less parallelism such as performing serial search acquisition instead of parallel acquisition or conducting acquisition in the frequency domain instead of in the time domain. The low data rate of the MTAS beacon provides ample opportunity to exploit such an approach.

For the objective micro beacon tracking of autonomous systems the expected operational range can be estimated using the Friis Range Equation

where P PG and Gare the transmitted and received power and antenna gains respectively is the wavelength R is the distance between transmitter and receiver and L represents system losses.

Knowing values for antenna gains micro beacon transmit power and receiver sensitivity the maximum expected range for the transmission link can be estimated.

This range estimate includes a 3 dB polarization loss antenna shaping losses and a fade margin of approximately 18 dB which provides a 99 link availability in line of sight conditions as well as providing significant robustness to accommodate signal attenuation and multipath from terrain foliage obstacles and canyon effects.

For the phased array ground station configuration a 2 m 2 m phased array aperture may be used. A phased array antenna of this size at 433 MHz may require 34 elements resulting in a relatively inexpensive phased array antenna. For the wide baseline unitary antennas a 10 turn helical antenna may be used for computation. Other antenna types such as Yagi or panel antennas can be used and would provide similar performance.

As discussed above the beacon design can be adjusted to meet specific needs. Using a slightly larger battery can increase operational life or power a higher power beacon. Increasing beacon output power to 100 mW 20 dBm results in approximately three times the operational range of 10 dBm. Up to 50 km can be achieved with a 250 mW transmitter and the phased array antenna.

The operating time for a micro beacon is related to a number of controllable parameters including battery sizing transmit interval PN code length and transmit data rate. To attain maximum range it is desirable to minimize the transmit data rate in order to reap benefits of higher receive sensitivity. In order to maximize system capacity a longer code is desired to maximize processing gain and overcome the effect of increased noise floor. However in order to achieve maximum battery life it may be desired to operate for as short a period as possible thus a higher data rate and shorter PN code length would be desirable.

In an embodiment a 255 bit PN code length may be used operating at 9600 bps. Assuming 1 second transmit intervals the maximum duration for the micro beacon is expected to be approximately 167 hours or 7 days of continuous operation using a CR2032 battery. For long duration requirements the transmit period can be lengthened to increase beacon lifetime proportionally. Alternatively when the platform can support a slightly larger and heavier beacon a larger coin cell battery such as the CR2477 can be used to increase operational time to greater than 1 month of full time operation at a 1 second transmit interval. The impact of using this larger battery would add approximately 5 g to the weight and 5 mm to the beacon thickness. This same approach can be used to develop a higher power beacon that extends the operational range.

PN coding can be used to allow separation between multiple simultaneous or overlapping signals. However although judicious selection of PN sequences minimizes cross correlation multiple overlapping signals do increase the effective noise floor thereby reducing the received signal to noise ratio SNR . Correlation can identify a particular sequence from several but a minimum SNR may be required. Longer code lengths provide higher processing gain thus minimizing impact of the increased noise floor. However as alluded to in the previous section increasing code length can also reduce operating time and maximum reception range.

This problem is exacerbated by the so called near far problem where two transmitters transmit simultaneously at equal power but one transmitter is much closer to the receiver than the other. The receiver will receive more power from the nearer transmitter making the farther transmitter more difficult if not impossible to understand. Since one transmission is the other s noise the signal to noise ratio SNR for the farther transmitter is much lower. If the nearer transmitter transmits a signal that is received magnitudes of order greater the farther transmitter then the SNR for the farther transmitter may be below detection threshold. This effectively jams the communication channel. To solve this problem transmitter output power can be dynamically adjusted. Thus the closer transmitters use less power so that the SNR for all transmitters at the receiver is roughly the same.

where is the activity factor W R is the processing gain and E Nis the required bit energy to noise ratio to achieve a desired bit error rate performance.

For a 255 bit PN code transmitted at 9600 bps each transmitter will be broadcasting approximately 27 ms per second thus 0.027 when repeated at 1 second intervals. Assuming a required Eb N0 of 12 dB to achieve a bit error rate of 10 and a 1 MHz frequency hopping bandwidth the total number of simultaneous users can be calculated to be approximately 244 micro beacons.

Embodiments of the invention provide several design features that can be used to provide simple cost effective upgrades. In addition to simply transmitting vehicle identification information the micro translators can also be designed to report other important system parameters as reported by the vehicle itself. For example vehicle altitude battery life temperature or perceived truth data can be provided to the micro translator for transmission to the tracking station. For small vehicles without inherent telemetry capabilities this can provide a simple cost effective and effective approach to retrofitting basic telemetry to even the smallest autonomous vehicles.

For vehicles that maintain world models this concept can be expanded even further If available on the vehicle sensed world model data can also be provided to the micro translators in the form of bandwidth efficient means such as Source for Environment Data Representation and Interchange SEDRIS . The sensed environment can be fed directly to a visualization engine to provide near real time display of workings of the vehicle s perception. This capability enables investigation of autonomous system behavior in the cognitive and social domains in addition to the physical domain capabilities of the core system.

The ability to provide an off board telemetry downlink is something that current range tracking systems cannot provide. Although possessing greater capabilities current telemetry systems are far too large and require far too much power to work with very small autonomous vehicles.

Embodiments of the invention can also be expanded to include pre and post mission data processing. To ensure maximum visibility of beacons in a particular environment a mission planning tool can be utilized to identify the quantity and locations of ground stations necessary to achieve a desired tracking probability throughout the test area.

In addition data can be provided to a real time or post mission visualization engine that allow users to visualize the operation and cooperative nature of multiple UAS within context of the actual operational environment. Use of synthetic vision can provide a god s eye or driver s eye view of the operational environment and interactions between vehicles within the group.

If link performance proves a significant problem for ground vehicles alternatives exist to mitigate this effect. In addition to increasing transmit power potential mitigation approaches include using telescoping or erectable towers for ground station antenna placement to increase the angle between transmitter and receiver. Alternatively the tracking station can be designed to operate in an airborne environment such as from a tethered aerostat. This approach allows significantly increased RF performance for both air and ground vehicle tracking.

Beacon transmitters according to embodiments of the invention are capable of encryption using 128 bit advanced encryption standard AES 128 although use of such encryption may increase the amount of data that is transmitted thus reducing the operational lifetime and number of MTAS micro beacons that can be supported.

While a preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

