---

title: Soft hand restraint device for transporting prisoners
abstract: The present invention, a SOFT HAND RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR TRANSPORTING PRISONERS comprising a fabric pouch, a retaining clip mechanism, a wrist retaining strap, restraint grommets, a handcuff retainer and a splay device seeks to provide law enforcement personnel a means of safely transporting prisoners, whereby the ability of a prisoner to grasp objects or persons and exercise his hands in an offensive posture is temporarily debilitated. This is accomplished by maintaining the hand in a position whereby the middle and ring finger are splayed apart at a predetermined distance by a splay device, which interferes with the grip ergonomics, wherein the prisoner is unable to exert sufficient force to overcome the splay device and hence is unable to form a grip. Additional embodiments providing differing arrangements of the primary elements are also disclosed and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07942152&OS=07942152&RS=07942152
owner: 
number: 07942152
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080404
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 401 813 Kufbag Restraining Device filed 10 Apr. 2006 presently abandoned in accordance with 35 USC 120 which claims the benefit of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 10 952 586 Soft Hand Restraint Device for Transporting Prisoners formerly Kufbag Restraint Device for Transporting Prisoners filed 26 Sep. 2004 presently abandoned in accordance with 35 USC 120 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 543 185 Kufbag Restraint for Transporting Prisoners filed 10 Feb. 2004 presently abandoned in accordance with 35 USC 119 e .

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 401 813 Kufbag Restraining Device filed 10 Apr. 2006 presently abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 10 952 586 Soft Hand Restraint Device for Transporting Prisoners formerly Kufbag Restraint Device for Transporting Prisoners filed 26 Sep. 2004 presently abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 543 185 Kufbag Restraint for Transporting Prisoners filed 10 Feb. 2004 in accordance with 35 USC 119 e 120 wherein the respective disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

There has been no research or development sponsored in whole or part by the Federal government or any agency thereof in respect to the instant invention.

The present invention specifically relates to a SOFT HAND RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR TRANSPORTING PRISONERS utilized to transport a prisoner in the custody of law enforcement authorities between various locations as may be dictated by the individual circumstances. The soft hand restraint device for transporting prisoners provides a measure of safety for both the law enforcement personnel entrusted with the transport of the prisoner and the prisoner being transported. Law enforcement personnel are placed at reduced risk of attack and injury from the prisoner as the prisoner s hands are not available to use in a similar fashion as if handcuffs had been employed. The prisoner derives the benefit of having an increased obstacle in respect to impulsive episodes which could result in the use of more severe means of physical restraint by law enforcement personnel. Further the incidence of excess force to subdue an unruly prisoner during transport may be minimized as the prisoner poses less dexterity to support a confrontation.

An effective means for safely transporting prisoners has long been felt in the law enforcement community. The use of traditional handcuffs and plastic cuffs wherein the prisoner s hands are afforded limited freedom of movement has lead to the loss of life of law enforcement personnel and prisoners due to altercations that ensued. In many instances the prisoner was able to grab the weapon of the law enforcement officer wherein it was employed to assault the officer. There have also been instances wherein the wrist chains of shackles or handcuffs have been employed to choke the law enforcement officer charged with transporting the prisoner.

There have been numerous attempts made to overcome these issues as can be demonstrated by such inventions as U.S. Pat. No. 6 073 631 Safe Cross Cuffs to Wilhelmy U.S. Pat. No. 5 551 086 Hand Restraint Device to Albanese U.S. Pat. No. 4 469 096 Supplemental Hand Restraint Device to Rivadeneyra and U.S. Pat. No. 5 031 641 Hand Restraint for Handcuffs by Upton. However each of these examples still present various limitations that although reducing the threat level to law enforcement personnel charged with transporting prisoners fail to eliminate the risk. In the case of Wilhelmy the hands of the prisoner are exposed and are still free to grasp objects and personnel within the prisoners reach. Further the principle means of incapacitating the prisoner is by extended wrist cuffs having a rigid insert wherein the cuffs are joined by a screwed connection which maintains the geometry of the cross cuffs and also presents a weapon for the prisoners use. In the event that the prisoner is able to overcome the transporting officer the prisoner may use the cross cuffs to his advantage to choke the officer or crush his officer s extremities as a function of the leverage provided by the cross cuffs. In regard to Albanese the arrangement of the hand cuff about metal rings that enclose the wrists poses a similar risk as in Wilhelmy except that the prisoner is provided a greater range of motion and can undertake a greater range of motion of an extremity upon which to perform an offensive act. It is also obvious that Albanese although countering the ability to utilize the hands individually to grasp has outfitted the prisoner with a striking tool that may be employed with the hands in unison to chop slap or punch with. Both Upton and Rivadeneyra present bags that may be disposed over a set of hand cuffs to prevent the prisoner from exercising his ability to grip however both rely on the positioning of the bag by a strap or snap ring arrangement the passes over the hand cuff linkage. Given the bulk of the bag in contrast to the flexibility of the human hand and the prisoner s desire to free himself the potential for freeing one or both hands is not improbable. Further the ability of the prisoner to grasp items is only limited by the denier of the fabric as the aspect of the mutual cooperation of the prisoner s hands is left unmitigated. The disadvantages posed by these attempts firmly evidence the need for a solution that will prevent a prisoner from using his hands in an offensive manner during transportation by law enforcement personnel. Further although all of the aforementioned attempts at redressing the issue of restricting the prisoner from exercising the ability to utilize his hands in a manner that manifests an offensive posture provide a limited degree of success. These means fail to completely eliminate the threat. It would be most desirable to have a means at the beckon disposal of law enforcement personnel that would provide for the humane detention and transportation of prisoners wherein the prisoner s ability to utilize his hands in an offensive manner is negated.

Given the multitude of shortcomings and disadvantages regarding the existing approaches to securing prisoners hands to ensure safety to all parties during their prisoner s transportation it would be desirable to have an affordable and convenient solution within the domain of the law enforcement community that is capable of securing the prisoner and reducing the threat to law enforcement personnel while equally minimizing the subjective elements of use and reduces aspects for a chance of escape. The present invention satisfies such a need.

The present invention specifically relates to a SOFT HAND RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR TRANSPORTING PRISONERS utilized to temporary debilitate a prisoner s capacity to exercise his hands in an offensive posture. This is accomplished by separably maintaining the hands in a thumb to thumb orientation within the plane of the front and rear side of the restraint whereby the middle and ring finger are splayed apart at a predetermined distance by a splay device which interferes with the grip ergonomics wherein the prisoner is unable to exert sufficient force to overcome the splay device and hence is unable to form a grip. The soft hand restraint device utilizes the fact that the hand requires the action of two groups of muscles to effect movement intrinsic those within the region of the hand and extrinsic those outside the region of the hand . The extrinsic muscles serve to properly align the joints and apply varying degrees of force through formation of a grip. The intrinsic muscles however control the specific movements of the fingers abduction and adduction and allow the thumb to meet the finger tips opposition . The intrinsic muscles are essential to establish fine manipulation dexterity and grip stability. A developed hand is capable of an entire range of motions and is able to manipulate a variety of items of enormous diversity in size or shape. In order to be able to do this the hand works in patterns of movement to form a variety of grips. The following are examples of grips that are commonly employed in daily living 

The splay device through interference with the alignment and cooperation of the various intrinsic and extrinsic muscles and the metacarpals and phalanges of the hand prevent the formation of any of the above listed grips which incapacitate the prisoner without inflicting any undue harm. The soft hand restraint may incorporate the splay device in its construction or in another embodiment may utilize a reusable glove of disposable construction that may incorporate the splay device where the gloved hands of the prisoner are subsequently placed in the soft hand restraint device.

The splay device through the abduction of the proximal phalanges of the middle finger and ring finger place the tendons and muscles of the middle finger flexor pollicis longus adductor pollicis oblique and transverse head flexor pollicis brevis and opens pollicis in conflict with the ring finger flexor digitorum profundus and flexor digit minimi and abductor digiti minimi . This serves also to restrict the motion of the metacarpals of the index finger though the small finger in their respective travel over the trapezoid capitate and hamate thereby imposing a significant impediment for the prisoner in forming any of the aforementioned grips of any appreciable magnitude. In another embodiment the proximal metacarpal of the thumb may be maintained in rigidly adducted compliance with the index finger proximal phalange further restricting the motion about the trapezium thereby essentially locking all the metacarpals of the hand in a splayed configuration. This may be accomplished by a thumb adduction device incorporated into the soft hand restraint device or by way of a reusable glove of disposable construction that may incorporate a thumb adduction device where the gloved hands of the prisoner are subsequently placed in the soft hand restraint device.

a fabric pouch constructed of a lightweight washable durable rip proof fabric material having a substantially rectangular shape of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a first edge a second edge a top rear edge and a top front edge wherein said fabric pouch is formed by folding the fabric so that the top rear edge is elevated to a predetermined height above the top front edge in a substantially parallel fashion to accommodate the attachment of a wrist retaining strap wherein the top rear edge has a cut out of a predetermined width about its middle that substantially corresponds with the width of a handcuff retainer wherein the top rear edge and top front edge are in matched agreement in a predetermined location such that adequate space is provided for the adequate accommodation of the linkage of a handcuff or shackle to be received where they are joined by any means known in the Textile Arts to produce a seam satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint further in the process of joining the top rear edge and top front edge a front side and a rear side are formed that are of a substantially similar geometry excepting those areas on the rear side set out to accommodate the attachment of wrist retaining straps whereby the front side and rear side are joined at their respective first edge and second edge by any means known in the Textile Arts satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint and having a partition seam that traverses from a midline of a base of fabric pouch which is the point wherein the demarcation of the front side and the rear side occurs to a predetermined location in the proximity of the top rear edge and top front edge while simultaneously joining the front side and the rear side wherein the partition seam terminates in a T shape and providing for adequate accommodation of the linkage of a handcuff or shackle to be received thereby forming a septum within the soft hand restraint device that serves to separably secure the hands together by maintaining the hands in a thumb to thumb orientation within the plane of the front and rear side of the restraint whereby the middle and ring finger are splayed apart at a predetermined distance by a splay device which interferes with the grip ergonomics wherein the prisoner is unable to exert sufficient force to overcome the splay device and hence is unable to form a grip while simultaneously preventing the restrained individual from using his hands to grasp objects or individuals wherein the area within the septum may be further configured by stitched splay seams in a predetermined shape to accommodate the pairing of the index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay device which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which are permanently affixed in the fabric pouch such that the interior surface of the fabric pouch prevents direct contact with the hands of a prisoner 

at least one retaining clip mechanism comprising a spring latch closure having a male lead having at least one tensional element that is received in a corresponding female receptacle wherein the male lead and the female receptacle further provide a means for the respective attachment of a male lead attachment strap and female receptacle attachment strap which respectively comprise a material of construction having durability and strength commensurate with the demands of transporting prisoners wherein the male lead is attached by the male lead attachment strap to the front side and is received in the female receptacle which is attached by the female receptacle attachment strap to a handcuff retainer 

at least two wrist retaining straps comprising a rectangular shaped flexible material of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a wrist retaining strap hook fastener and a wrist retaining strap loop fastener wherein the wrist retaining strap hook fastener has a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics of the wrist retaining strap first side to which it is affixed and the wrist retaining strap loop fastener is of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics of the wrist retaining strap second side to which it is affixed wherein the wrist retaining straps are joined about the midsection of this construction in an area bordering the top edge and the bottom edge that may range to the width of the tabs formed in the fabric pouch top rear edge comprising an attachment area whereby the wrist retaining straps are joined in matched agreement with the tabs formed in the fabric pouch top rear edge by any means known in the Textile Arts 

a handcuff retainer which is joined to the soft hand restraint device rear side about the midline near the top rear edge by any means known in the Textile Arts comprising a rectangular shaped flexible material of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a handcuff retainer hook fastener and handcuff retainer loop fastener wherein the handcuff retainer hook fastener is affixed to the handcuff retainer first side further comprises a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics of the handcuff retainer less the predetermined area of attachment area which comprises an area about the midsection of the first side bordered by the top edge and the handcuff retainer hook fastener that ranges to the width of the handcuff retainer wherein the handcuff retainer is secured to the fabric pouch by any means known in the Textile Arts the handcuff retainer loop fastener is located about the midline of the soft hand restraint front side so as to engage the handcuff retainer hook fastener when it is drawn over the fabric pouch top rear and front edges the handcuff retainer second side is secured about the midsection to the female receptacle attachment strap whereby the retaining clip mechanism female receptacle is connected by any means known in the Textile Arts 

a plurality of restraint grommets may comprise any waterproof corrosion resistant grommet of a predetermined size having any construction known in the Textile Arts capable of penetrating heavy fabric with adequate flange width to resist pullout and compromise of the fabric while presenting a smooth rounded edge to any binding devices exposed to the grommet being further capable of enduring the rigors anticipated in transporting prisoners the restraint grommets are situated at predetermined locations about the fabric pouch in the general proximity of the fabric pouch top front edge and the handcuff retainer on the fabric pouch front side wherein a corresponding restraint grommets are located on the fabric pouch rear side 

a plurality of D rings comprising any waterproof corrosion resistant D ring of a predetermined size having any construction known in the Textile Arts capable of being secured to heavy fabric with an adequate bearing surface width to resist pullout and compromise of the fabric while presenting a smooth rounded edges to any binding devices exposed to the D ring being further capable of enduring the rigors anticipated in transporting prisoners the restraint D rings are situated at predetermined locations about the fabric pouch in the general proximity of the fabric pouch top front edge bottom edge first side edge second side edge and about the handcuff retainer on the fabric pouch front side wherein a corresponding D rings are located on the fabric pouch rear side these provide for the attachment of shackles waist chains and also provide for securing the fabric pouch about the prisoner s thighs to further restrict the use of his arms.

A second aspect of the soft hand restraint device for transporting prisoners may comprise a soft hand restraint device of similar construction to the first aspect further incorporating a thumb adduction device wherein the area within the septum may be further configured by stitched splay seams in a predetermined shape to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay device which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which are permanently affixed in the fabric pouch such that the interior surface of the fabric pouch prevents direct contact with the hands of a prisoner and a thumb adduction device which comprises a means for maintaining the proximal metacarpal of the thumb may be maintained in rigidly adducted compliance with the index finger proximal phalange wherein the means is selected from a group consisting of metal and non deformable polymeric of predetermined shapes i.e. rings clips etc. that arrest the motion of the thumb which are permanently affixed in the fabric pouch such that the interior surface of the fabric pouch prevents direct contact with the hands of a prisoner.

A third aspect of the soft hand restraint device for transporting prisoners may comprise a soft hand restraint device of similar construction to the first aspect further incorporating a splay glove of similar construction as may be gleaned from U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 172B1 Fingertip Flexor Glove to Adams Jr. or U.S. Pat. No. 5 604 933 Hand and Wrist Restraint for a Patient to Stephens where the splay glove is arranged to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay device which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which are permanently affixed to the splay glove. Further the outer surface of the splay glove would have a predetermined area covered by hook loop fasteners which would be engaged by corresponding fasteners within the soft hand restraint device and would affix the glove. This would also provide an audible notice to transporting law enforcement personnel that the prisoner had freed himself from the soft hand restraint device such that an appropriate response could be initiated. In another embodiment a thumb adduction glove device having a predetermined shape may be comprised of metal or plastic construction that could be incorporated into the structure of the splay glove to form a thumb adduction splay glove.

Referring to the present embodiment of the SOFT HAND RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR TRANSPORTING PRISONERS is generally shown at . The SOFT HAND RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR TRANSPORTING PRISONERS may comprise a fabric pouch a retaining clip mechanism a wrist retaining strap restraint grommets a handcuff retainer a splay device stitched splay seams and a plurality of D rings .

Referring again to the fabric pouch may comprise any lightweight washable durable rip proof material known in the Textile Arts capable of satisfying the mechanical demands and environmental rigors of serving as a physical restraint i.e. nylon polypropylene canvas duck polyester washable leather and reinforced vinyl having a generally rectangular shape of a predetermined size having a first side and second side B a first edge a second edge a top rear edge B and a top front edge . In another embodiment the fabric pouch may incorporate foam padding between the first side and the second side . Wherein the fabric pouch may be formed by folding the fabric so that the top rear edge B is elevated to a predetermined height above the top front edge in a substantially parallel fashion so as to accommodate the attachment of a wrist retaining strap B A B . Further the top rear edge B may have a cut out of a predetermined width about its middle that substantially corresponds with the width of the handcuff retainer B wherein the top rear edge B and top front edge are in matched agreement where they are joined by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a seam satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint in a predetermined location such that adequate space is provided for the adequate accommodation of the linkage of a handcuff or shackle to be received. In the process of joining the top rear edge B and top front edge a front side and a rear side B are formed that are of a substantially similar geometry excepting those areas on the rear side B set out to accommodate the attachment of the wrist retaining straps B A B . The front side and rear side are joined at their respective first edge and second edge by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a seam satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint. From a base of the midline fabric pouch which is the point wherein the demarcation of the front side and the rear side B occurs a partition seam which joins the front side and the rear side B to previously indicated standards traverses from the base of the pouch to a predetermined location in the proximity of the top rear edge B and top front edge wherein the partition seam terminates in a T shape and providing for adequate accommodation of the linkage of a handcuff or shackle to be received. The partition seam forms a septum within the soft hand restraint device which serves to secure the hands together while simultaneously preventing the restrained individual from using his hands to grasp objects or individuals. In another embodiment the fabric pouch may be constructed of a double layer of fabric that may be bonded or stitched to itself to increase the fabric s strength. The area within the septum may be further configured by stitched splaying seams in a predetermined shape to accommodate the pairing of the index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay device that is affixed in the proximal location of the splayed finger pockets such that splayed fingers are tensionally maintained in the desired position. In another embodiment the area within the septum may be further configured by stitched splaying seams in a predetermined shape to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay device that is affixed in the proximal location of the splayed finger pockets such that splayed fingers are tensionally maintained in the desired position and a thumb adduction device DETAIL B which comprises a means for maintaining the proximal metacarpal of the thumb in rigidly adducted compliance with the index finger proximal phalange wherein the means is selected from a group consisting of metal and non deformable polymeric construction of predetermined shapes i.e. rings clips etc. that arrest the motion of the thumb which are permanently affixed in the fabric pouch by any means accepted in the Textile Arts suitable for severe service and repeated laundering such that the fabric pouch second side interior surface prevents direct contact with the hands of a prisoner. The soft hand restraint device further may comprise a plurality of D rings that are attached by any means known in the Textile Arts capable of withstanding the rigors of prisoner transport at predetermined locations about the fabric pouch first edge second edge bottom edge first side and rear side to facilitate the attachment of additional restraint devices and apparel as deemed appropriate i.e. shackles waist restraint belts etc. Additionally the D rings permit the soft hand restraint device to be secured to other structures chairs personnel or the prisoner s hands may be bound to his thighs as needs dictate.

The retaining clip mechanism is designed to provide a convenient means for providing a secondary fastener to secure the soft hand restraint device in place. The retaining clip mechanism may comprise a spring latch closure having a male lead having at least one tensional element that is received in a corresponding female receptacle . The retaining clip mechanism may further comprise any clip mechanism known in the Mechanical Arts that may satisfy the requirements for a fastener that will endure the rigors anticipated in transporting prisoners which may be readily engaged and disengaged. Both the male lead and the female receptacle may further provide a means for the respective attachment of a male lead attachment strap and female receptacle attachment strap . The male lead attachment strap and female receptacle attachment strap may comprise a material of construction having durability and strength commensurate with the demands of transporting prisoners wherein materials such as leather plastic fabric or a combination thereof may be considered. In another embodiment the male lead attachment strap and female receptacle attachment strap may be made adjustable by incorporating a buckle or cinching means i.e. a plurality of D rings friction catches etc. In another embodiment the retaining clip mechanism may incorporate construction that may be gleaned from U.S. Pat. No. 4 100 657 to Minolla or U.S. Pat. No. 4 468 843 to Duclos et al.

The wrist retaining strap may comprise a rectangular shaped flexible material of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a wrist retaining strap hook fastener and a wrist retaining strap loop fastener . The wrist retaining strap may have the wrist retaining strap hook fastener of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics affixed to the first side and a wrist retaining strap loop fastener of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics affixed to the second side . The wrist retaining straps B A B C may be joined in matched agreement with the tabs formed in the top rear edge by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a bond satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint. In another embodiment the wrist retaining strap may reverse the location of the wrist retaining strap hook fastener and wrist retaining strap loop fastener .

The restraint grommets B A B may comprise any waterproof corrosion resistant grommet of a predetermined size having any construction known in the Textile Arts capable of penetrating heavy fabric with adequate flange width to resist pullout and compromise of the fabric while presenting a smooth rounded edge to any binding devices exposed to the grommet further capable of enduring the rigors anticipated in transporting prisoners. The restraint grommet is situated at a predetermined location about the fabric pouch in the general proximity of the top front edge B and the handcuff retainer B A B on the front side B wherein corresponding restraint grommets B are located on the rear side B .

The handcuff retainer may comprise a rectangular shaped flexible material of similar construction as the fabric pouch of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a handcuff retainer hook fastener and handcuff retainer loop fastener . The handcuff retainer may be joined to the soft hand restraint device rear side about the midline near the top rear edge by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a bond satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint.

Referring to DETAIL A the splay device is generally shown at . The splay device may comprise a means for tensionally splaying the prisoner s hands by abduction of the ring and middle finger which are respectively paired with the small and index fingers at a predetermined angle wherein the splay device effectively prevents the formation of a grip by the prisoner. The splay device may have a splay device body having a predetermined shape and size designed to form an optimum splaying angle which may be constructed of a polymeric material demonstrating adequate compressive strength to resist compressive forces which would collapse the splay device . The splay device may further comprise a reinforcement splay that may be either attached to or incorporated in the splay device body . The splay device is designed to be permanently affixed into the body of the fabric pouch such that it is contained between the fabric pouch first side and the fabric pouch second side B to prevent contact with the prisoner. The splay device is designed to withstand the rigors of routine laundering of the soft hand restraint device without compromising its compressive strength or significant change of its morphology. In another embodiment the splay device may comprise means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts wooden wedges and a combination thereof which are adequately padded and permanently affixed in the fabric pouch such that the fabric pouch second side interior surface B prevents direct contact with the hands of a prisoner.

Referring to DETAIL B the thumb adduction device is generally shown at . The thumb adduction device may comprise a means for tensionally adducting the prisoner s hands by maintaining the proximal metacarpal of the thumb in rigidly adducted compliance with the index finger proximal phalange wherein the splay device effectively prevents the formation of a grip by the prisoner. The thumb adduction device may have a predetermined shape and size designed to form a retaining saddle which may be constructed from a material of construction selected from a group consisting of structural polymeric materials metals fiberglass or combinations thereof demonstrating adequate tensile and compressive strength to resist destructive forces which would collapse or fracture the thumb adduction device . The thumb adduction device is designed to be permanently affixed into the body of the fabric pouch such that it is contained between the fabric pouch first side and the fabric pouch second side to prevent contact with the prisoner. The thumb adduction device is designed to withstand the rigors of routine laundering of the soft hand restraint device without compromising its compressive strength or significant change of its morphology.

Referring to a cut away perspective view of the soft hand restraint device is generally shown at wherein the soft hand restraint device is utilized in conjunction with a splay glove and a thumb adduction splay glove . The soft hand restraint device may further comprise a splay glove of similar construction as may be gleaned from U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 172B1 Fingertip Flexor Glove to Adams Jr. or U.S. Pat. No. 5 604 933 Hand and Wrist Restraint for a Patient to Stephens where the splay glove is arranged to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay stay B which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the splay glove by a splay stay retainer . Further the outer surface of the splay glove would have a predetermined area covered by hook loop fasteners which would be engaged by corresponding fasteners within the soft hand restraint device B and would affix the splay glove . This arrangement would also provide an audible notice to transporting law enforcement personnel that the prisoner had freed himself from the soft restraint device or was attempting to do so such that an appropriate response could be initiated. In another embodiment a thumb adduction glove device having a predetermined shape comprised of metal or plastic construction which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the splay glove by a thumb adduction stay retainer to form a thumb adduction splay glove . Both embodiments of the splay glove and thumb adduction splay glove are designed to be received by the fabric pouch where they are in positional agreement with the area within the septum configured by the stitched splaying seams to accommodate the pairing of the index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets or thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle and are further maintained by the splay device .

Referring to a cut away sectional view of the soft hand restraint device is in the process of restraining an individual is generally shown at . The soft hand restraint device is analogous to a strait jacket for the hands wherein the hands of a prisoner are retained in a confined space formed by the soft hand restraint device second side bounded by a septum formed by the partition seam and the second edge B C in the example or the first edge . The prisoner s hands are further secured by the soft hand restraint device through the use of the wrist retaining straps which encircle the wrists of the prisoner and plastic ties that are routed through the restraint grommets located in a somewhat superior proximity to the handcuffs which also serve to securely maintain the soft hand restraint device in position over the prisoner s hands. In cases where the soft hand restraint device is used in conjunction with handcuffs the handcuff retainer serves traverses the handcuff linkage wherein the handcuff retainer hook fastener engages the handcuff retainer loop fastener B C and is additionally secured by engaging the male lead and the female receptacle of the retaining clip mechanism . reflects the typical orientation of the prisoner s hand in the septum of the soft hand restraint device when splayed as a function of the stitched splaying seams B C or the splay glove where the positional relationship to the hook loop fastener which corresponds to the hook loop fasteners located on the stay glove . reflects the typical orientation of the prisoner s hand in the septum of the soft hand restraint device when the thumb is adducted and the paired fingers splayed as a function of the stitched splaying seams B C or the thumb adduction splay glove where the positional relationship to the hook loop fastener which corresponds to the hook loop fasteners located on the thumb adduction stay glove . The soft hand restraint device may be secured in front of or behind the back of the prisoner as dictated by the safety concerns of the transporting law enforcement personnel.

Referring to the soft hand restraint device is generally shown at wherein the retaining clip mechanism is shown in the closed position wherein the male lead which is attached by the male lead attachment strap to the front side is received in the female receptacle which is attached by the female receptacle attachment strap to the handcuff retainer . In another embodiment the male lead may be attached by the male lead attachment strap to the handcuff retainer and the female receptacle attachment strap to the front side . reflects the typical orientation of the prisoner s hand in the septum of the soft hand restraint device when splayed as a function of the splay device stitched splaying seams B C or when utilized with the splay glove where the positional relationship to the hook loop fastener which corresponds to the hook loop fasteners located on the stay glove . reflects the typical orientation of the prisoner s hand in the septum of the soft hand restraint device when the thumb is adducted and the paired fingers splayed as a function of the splay device the stitched splaying seams B C or utilized in conjunction with the thumb adduction splay glove where the positional relationship to the hook loop fastener which corresponds to the hook loop fasteners located on the thumb adduction stay glove .

Referring to the back side of the soft hand restraint device is generally shown at wherein the stitched splay seam and the splay device incorporated into the fabric pouch are shown in relationship to the restraint grommets and D rings . In another embodiment the stitched splay seam may have the thumbs adducted and further utilize the thumb adduction device to maintain the thumbs in an adducted position within the fabric pouch . The various positions of the D rings permit webbing and additional restraint devices to be connected to the soft hand restraint device to provide an additional measure of security or convenience for the transporting law enforcement personnel.

Referring to the handcuff retainer is generally shown at . The handcuff retainer may comprise a rectangular shaped flexible material of a similar construction as the fabric pouch of predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a handcuff retainer hook fastener and handcuff retainer loop fastener B C . The handcuff retainer may have the handcuff retainer hook fastener of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics less the predetermined area of attachment area affixed to the first side . The handcuff retainer may be attached to an element of the retaining clip mechanism in the present embodiment the handcuff retainer second side may have secured about the midsection of the female receptacle attachment strap whereby the retaining clip mechanism female receptacle is connected. In another embodiment the handcuff retainer second side may have secured about the midsection the male lead attachment strap whereby the retaining clip mechanism male lead is connected. The attachment area comprises an area about the midsection of the first side bordered by the top edge and the handcuff retainer hook fastener that may range to the width of the handcuff retainer . The handcuff retainer loop fastener B C is located about the midline of the soft hand restraint front side so as to engage the handcuff retainer hook fastener when it is drawn over the top rear and front edges B C A B respectively. The handcuff retainer may be joined to the soft hand restraint device rear side about the midline near the top rear edge B A B by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a bond satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint. In another embodiment the handcuff retainer may reverse the location of the handcuff retainer hook fastener and handcuff retainer loop fastener B C . The handcuff retainer hook fastener and handcuff retainer loop fastener B C also serve to alert transporting law enforcement personnel of an escape attempt due to the distinctive noise upon the disengagement of the hook and loop fasteners.

Referring to the wrist retaining strap is generally shown at . The wrist retaining strap may comprise a rectangular shaped flexible material of a predetermined size having a first side a second side a top edge a bottom edge an attachment area a wrist retaining strap hook fastener and a wrist retaining strap loop fastener . The wrist retaining strap may have the wrist retaining strap hook fastener of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics affixed to the first side and a wrist retaining strap loop fastener of a predetermined shape and substantially similar dimensional characteristics affixed to the second side . About the midsection of this construction an area bordering the top edge and the bottom edge that may range to the width of the tabs formed in the top rear edge B comprises the attachment area . The wrist retaining straps B A B C may be joined in matched agreement with the tabs formed in the top rear edge B A B by any means known in the Textile Arts such as stitching gluing fusing riveting or weaving to produce a bond satisfying the mechanical requirements of a physical restraint. In another embodiment the wrist retaining strap may reverse the location of the wrist retaining strap hook fastener and wrist retaining strap loop fastener .

Referring to the splay glove is generally shown at . The splay glove may comprise a body having the general shape of a hand and finger which may be open at the fingertips which is covered about the area of the metacarpals and distal phalanges by a reinforced band that is affixed by glove stitching and incorporates a splay stay retainer which maintains a splay stay in a desired position by a splay stay retainer flap incorporating tabs with closures that are received by corresponding closures on the stay retainer . The splay glove may be constructed of any material known in the Textile Arts suitable for the manufacture of a restraint glove and having ability to be laundered without significant compromise of strength or shrinkage. The reinforced band may also be adhered to the glove body by gluing thermoforming riveting interweaving or any other suitable means known in the Textile Arts. The reinforced band may comprise a material of construction selected from a group consisting of leather woven fiberglass high strength polymers duck sailcloth metallic meshes and combinations thereof. The splay glove may further comprise similar construction as may be gleaned from U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 172B1 Fingertip Flexor Glove to Adams Jr. or U.S. Pat. No. 5 604 933 Hand and Wrist Restraint for a Patient to Stephens where the splay glove is arranged to accommodate the pairing of the index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionably maintained by a splay stay which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the splay glove by a splay stay retainer . Further the outer surface of the splay glove would have a predetermined area covered by hook loop fasteners which would be engaged by corresponding fasteners within the soft hand restraint device and would affix the splay glove . This arrangement would also provide an audible notice to transporting law enforcement personnel that the prisoner had freed himself from the soft restraint device or was attempting to do so such that an appropriate response could be initiated. In another embodiment a thumb adduction glove device having a predetermined shape comprised of metal or plastic construction which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the splay glove by a thumb adduction stay retainer to form a thumb adduction splay glove . The splay glove is designed to be received by the fabric pouch where it is maintained in positional agreement with the area of the septum configured by the stitched splaying seams to accommodate the pairing of the index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle and are further maintained by the splay device .

Referring to the thumb adduction splay glove is generally shown at . The thumb adduction splay glove may comprise a body having the general shape of a hand and finger which may be open at the fingertips which is covered about the area of the metacarpals and distal phalanges by a reinforced band that is affixed by glove stitching and incorporates a splay stay retainer which maintains a splay stay in a desired position by a splay stay retainer flap incorporating tabs with closures that are received by corresponding closures on the stay retainer a thumb adduction glove device comprises a means for tensionally adducting the prisoner s hands by maintaining the proximal metacarpal of the thumb in rigidly adducted compliance with the index finger proximal phalange having a predetermined shape comprised of metal or plastic construction which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the reinforced band by a thumb adduction retainer which is affixed by closures that are received by corresponding closures on the reinforced band . The thumb adduction glove device The thumb adduction splay glove may be constructed of any material known in the Textile Arts suitable for the manufacture of a restraint glove and having ability to be laundered without significant compromise of strength or shrinkage. The reinforced band may also be adhered to the glove body by gluing thermoforming riveting interweaving or any other suitable means known in the Textile Arts. The reinforced band may comprise a material of construction selected from a group consisting of leather woven fiberglass high strength polymers duck sailcloth metallic meshes and combinations thereof. The thumb adduction splay glove may further comprise similar construction as may be gleaned from U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 172B1 Fingertip Flexor Glove to Adams Jr. or U.S. Pat. No. 5 604 933 Hand and Wrist Restraint for a Patient to Stephens where the thumb adduction splay glove is arranged to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle which is tensionally maintained by a splay stay which comprises a means for maintaining a predetermined tension and splay angle which may be selected from a group consisting of rigid polymeric wedges chevron shaped metallic inserts non deformable plastic chevron shaped inserts and a combination thereof which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the thumb adduction splay glove by a splay stay retainer . Further the outer surface of the thumb adduction splay glove would have a predetermined area covered by hook loop fasteners which would be engaged by corresponding fasteners within the soft hand restraint device and would affix the thumb adduction splay glove . This arrangement would also provide an audible notice to transporting law enforcement personnel that the prisoner had freed himself from the soft restraint device or was attempting to do so such that an appropriate response could be initiated. In another embodiment a thumb adduction glove device having a predetermined shape comprised of metal or plastic construction which may be detachably or permanently affixed to the splay glove by a thumb adduction stay retainer to form a thumb adduction splay glove . The thumb adduction splay glove is designed to be received by the fabric pouch where it is maintained in positional agreement with the area of the septum configured by the stitched splaying seams to accommodate the pairing of the thumb index and middle finger and the ring and small finger in pockets that splay these two pairs of fingers at a predetermined angle and are further maintained by the splay device and the thumb adduction device .

While the embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein are presently considered to be preferred various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The scope of the present invention is indicated in the appended claims and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalents are intended to be embraced therein.

