---

title: Methods and apparatus to capture and release microbe particles using amino-functionalized silica
abstract: Methods and apparatus to capture and release microbe particles using amino-functionalized silica substrates are described. An example apparatus adapted to capture a microbe particle includes a silica substrate and a positively charged material to at least partially coat the silica substrate. The positive charged material includes an aminopropyl functional group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960180&OS=07960180&RS=07960180
owner: Scientific Methods, Inc.
number: 07960180
owner_city: Granger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080219
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 902 199 filed Feb. 20 2007 and entitled Capture and Release of Viruses using Amino Functionalized Silica Particles which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure was made in part with United States government support from the Environmental Protection Agency EPA EPA SBIR Contract No. EP D 05 037. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to the capture and release of microbe particles from fluids and more particularly to methods and apparatus to capture and release microbe particles from fluids using amino functionalized silica.

The contamination of water with human enteric viruses continues to present a serious threat to the public health in many countries including the United States. Enteric viruses can cause debilitating diseases and many outbreaks result from contaminated drinking water. For example from 1971 to 1999 9 of reported outbreaks of infectious diseases associated with ground water contamination were attributed to viral agents. In 1982 73 cases of hepatitis A virus HAV were documented to be the result of consuming contaminated water from a single spring in Meade County Ky. See Bergeisen G. H. Hinds M. W. Skaggs J. W. 1985 75 161 164 . Norwalk virus and Norwalk like viruses noroviruses are regarded as major causes of foodborne and waterborne viral gastroenteritis. Outbreaks of viral gastroenteritis have been associated with contamination of water supplies raw foods and food products prepared by ill food handlers. In some instances outbreaks of norovirus gastroenteritis have been linked to the failure of a septic tank system See Bellar M. Ellis A. Lee S H. Drebot M. A. et al. 1997 278 563 568 .

Conventionally treated drinking water may still contain human enteric viruses and cause outbreaks even when those waters have met water quality criteria based upon coliform bacteria densities and turbidity. Furthermore because enteric viruses are generally infectious at relatively low concentrations the detection of virus samples in environmental waters typically requires the collection of large sample volumes such as for example more than 1 000 liters.

Adsorption elution is one known method used to concentrate virus samples using large volumes of water. Adsorption elution methods rely upon electrostatically negatively or positively charged microporous filters to capture virus particles. In particular virus particles are negatively charged at pH 7.0 and adsorb to the filter as the water sample passes through the electrostatic filter. Although inexpensive microporous filters having negatively charged materials such as nitrocellulose Millipore HA fiberglas Filterite and cellulose Whatman typically require extensive pre conditioning of the water to facilitate binding interactions between the negatively charged surface material and negatively charged virus particles See Lukasik J. Scott T. M. Andryshak D. Farrah S. R. 2000 66 2914 20 .

Pre conditioning treatments of the water may include acidification of the water sample or the addition of multivalent cationic salts such as for example magnesium chloride or aluminum chloride to serve as bridging molecules between the negatively charged microporous filters and the negative charged viral particles to facilitate virus capture. In such pre conditioning treatments the addition of multi valent cations effects a charge reversal on the negatively charged viral particles providing for electrostatic binding interactions on the negatively charged microporous filter surface.

Alternatively the addition of multi valent cations with the negatively charged microporous filter provides counter ion flux water on an ion selective membrane e.g. a filter which produces a thick positively charged double layer near the membrane surface. See Ben Y. Chang H. C. 2002 461 229 238 . This external double layer has a net charge higher than that of the membrane thus effectively reversing the charge of the membrane to create a virus binding surface. However this alternative positively charged double layer mechanism can only occur if the pores of the membrane filter are sufficiently small such that electro osmotic flow and neutralizing convection are minimized and only ion selective electro migration drives a cation flux into the membrane. As a result negatively charged membrane filters having small pore sizes e.g. 0.2 to 0.45 m often times minimize internal flow which may severely restrict the volume of sample that can be filtered.

Electropositive microporous filters on the other hand have a positively charged surface that facilitate the deposition and retention of the particles on the surface of the filter media. Electropositive filters typically do not require pre conditioning treatments of the water sample and may accommodate larger sample volumes due to their large porosity 10 m and extensive surface area See Sobsey M. D. Jones B. L. 1979 37 588 595 and Sobsey M. D. Glass J. S. 1980 40 201 210 . However these filters are usually unsuitable for concentration of particular viruses and are relatively more expensive. The appreciable costs of these filters coupled with erratic recoveries for some important viral agents often times preclude their routine use.

Both the negatively and positively charged microporous filters require post filtration process to concentrate the viral particles. Post filtration processing rely upon the use of relatively large volumes e.g. 1 000 mL of highly alkaline protein rich eluent for example beef extract glycine that may interfere with downstream enzyme based assay procedures such as the polymerase chain reaction PCR due to the high concentration of mammalian DNA in the eluents. Polymerase chain reaction PCR amplifies i.e. replicates a specific regions of a DNA strand the DNA target by in vitro enzymatic replication. Because PCR amplifies the regions of DNA that it targets PCR can be used to analyze extremely small amounts of sample. PCR detects viral DNA using primers specific to the targeted sequences in the DNA of a virus and can be used for diagnostic analyses or DNA sequencing of the viral genome.

Thus large elution volumes also typically require secondary concentration to render the sample compatible with assay procedures that rely upon mammalian cell cultures e.g. 20 30 mL . These secondary concentration methods include for example organic flocculation adsorption elution etc. More recently however alternative elution procedures relying upon defined eluents e.g. amino acids have been described for the recovery of nonculturable viruses from water with encouraging reductions in assay interferences See Hedberg C. W. Osterholm M. T. 1993 6 199 210 and Kittigul L. Khamoun P. Sujirarat D. Utrarachkij F. Chitpirom K. Chaichantanakit N. Vathanophas K. 2001 96 815 21 .

Ultrafiltration is another known method used to concentrate virus samples using large volumes of water. Ultrafiltration also relies on positively charged filter media for concentration of enteric viruses Li J. W. Wang X. W. Rui Q. Y. Song N. Zhang F. G. Ou Y. C. Chao F. H. 1998 74 99 108 . Ultrafiltration filters have very small pore sizes that only allow small molecules to pass through the filter and retain the viruses within the circulating sample which is recirculated until the required sample size is reached. A small pour size filter concentrates all particles including virus microbe particles present in the water sample which can minimize bias in concentration of different virus types within the sample. After the required volume is reached an elution is used to concentrate the viral particles adsorbed onto the filter membrane.

The positively charged ultrafiltration filter may be composed of for example NaCO AlCland silica gel Li et al. . Recently hollow fiber ultrafilters have been used to detect enteric viruses in a variety of water samples and recoveries in excess of 50 have been reported Morales Morales H. A. Vidal G. Olszewski J. Rock C. M. Dasgupta D. Oshima K. H. Smith G. B. 2003 69 4098 102 . However the small pores of the filter membrane typically become blocked during filtering by organic matter in environmental water samples. Additionally these ultrafiltration filters are relatively expensive must be pretreated to block nonspecific adsorption onto the membrane and samples must be recirculated through filter cartridges under pressure at relatively slow flow rates e.g. 200 300 mL min . These requirements make it impractical to filter large volumes of water in the field.

In general the example apparatus and methods described herein provide a microbe particle capture material based upon a silica substrate at least partially coated with a positive charged material that includes for example an aminopropyl functional group. The capture apparatus can filter microbe particles from a fluid such as for example water and or can manipulate concentration of microbe particles in fluid samples to render the samples compatible with assay procedures such as for example enzyme based assay procedures.

In particular an example capture apparatus adapted to capture a microbe particle includes amino functionalized silica materials such as for example a plurality of beads that can efficiently capture and or concentrate microbe particles in a fluid such as for example water. In one example an array of amino functionalized electropositive silica materials capture model bacterial viruses such as for example coliphage MS 2 and or bacteriophage PRD 1 from water samples having a wide range of pH levels and microbe particle densities. The example amino functionalized silica substrates described herein include 3 aminopropyl functionalized silica APS 3 ethylenediamino propyl functionalized silica EPS 3 diethylenetriamino propyl functionalized silica DPS and Lupamin coated silica LS . It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art however that other electrostatically and or positively charged material s may be utilized as well. The microbes captured on the example silica materials may be released from the silica using an elution solution that may contain soluble proteins amino acids and or surfactants as described in greater detail below.

The following examples are provided to illustrate various apparatus and methods which have been made within the scope of the present disclosure. It is to be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the following examples are neither comprehensive nor exhaustive of the many types of methods and apparatus which may be prepared in accordance with the present disclosure.

In the illustrated examples of the positively charged material e.g. APS EPS DPS LS etc. is bonded to the silica substrate and or silica bead such as for example a chemical process described in greater detail below. However in other example implementations the positively charged material may be coupled to the silica substrate and or silica bead via any other suitable process es . As noted above in this example the positively charged material includes an aminopropyl functional group such as for example 3 aminopropyl functionalized silica 3 ethylenediamino propyl functionalized silica 3 diethylenetriamino propyl functionalized silica and Lupamin coated silica. The aminopropyl functional group has defined length spacer molecules to yield particles with a surface density that is optimized for efficient microbe particle e.g. virus particle capture.

In this example a plurality of the silica beads functionalized with the positively charged material form a filter disposed within the housing in a generally vertical manner between and in fluid communication with the inlet and the outlet . The example silica beads are arranged in a porous array such that a fluid is passable through the porous array between the inlet and the outlet . The example capture apparatus may include an inert material to modify and or control the rate of flow through the capture apparatus . The inter material may include for example a nonfunctionalized i.e. a bare silica bead having a larger diameter than the functionalized silica beads . Additionally or alternatively a porous adsorbent material may be arranged with the functionalized silica beads and or the inert material to form the porous array . The porous adsorbent material may be a highly adsorbent material such as for example granular activated carbon.

The example capture apparatus filters microbe particles from a fluid such as for example water or any other liquid and or gas. Additionally the example capture apparatus may include an optional container or reservoir operatively coupled to the capture apparatus to capture and or retain a fluid that exits the outlet when the fluid is processed through the capture apparatus . In other examples the container may be removably coupled to the housing or may be fluidly coupled to the outlet via a hose tube and or any other suitable arrangement s . Although not illustrated the housing may include a lid to cover the inlet . The capture apparatus may be portable and thus may be used either on site such as at the source of a water sample or at any facility such as a laboratory.

The housing includes a second portion between a second inlet and a second outlet to form a second passageway through the housing . The second portion is sized to receive at least a portion of the carrier so that the matrix is in fluid communication with the second inlet and the second outlet . In this manner the carrier may be selectively disposed or moved between the first portion and the second portion of the housing . The carrier may be selectively moved between the first portion and the second portion of the housing via for example a sliding mechanism a rotational mechanism and or any other suitable mechanism s . In another example not shown the first portion may be located in a separate housing from the second portion .

In this illustrated example the first portion includes an optional first container or reservoir in fluid communication with the first outlet . The second portion of the housing includes an optional second container or reservoir in fluid communication with the second outlet . In this manner a first fluid passes through the carrier via the first inlet to contact the functionalized silica matrix exits through the first outlet and is retained by the first container . A second fluid passes through the carrier via the second inlet to contact the silica matrix and exits through the second outlet . The fluid that exits the second outlet is retained by the second container . The containers may be removably coupled to the housing fluidly coupled to housing via for example hoses and or may be disposed within the housing and include an outlet to remove the fluids contained therein.

In another example a capture apparatus may include silica functionalized with a positively charged material disposed within a housing such as for example a test tube. In such an implementation a fluid is added to the housing so that the fluid contacts the silica. The housing is then agitated via for example stirring shaking etc. prior to the fluid being removed from the housing. A membrane such as for example a screen may be disposed within the housing to prevent the silica from exiting the housing when the sample fluid is removed. In yet another example the silica may be removed from the test tube and transferred to a second housing wherein an elution solution is added to the second housing to release the microbe particles from the functionalized silica to provide a concentration solution i.e. the eluate solution containing the microbe particles compatible with assay procedures. The concentrated solution is removed from the second housing which may be analyzed to detect the presence of the microbe particles and or identify a specific microbe particle type using for example an enzyme based procedure.

As discussed below in greater detail the various aminopropyl materials described herein interact or bond differently with different types of microbe particles which may facilitate or impede electrostatic attraction or other intermolecular interactions e.g. hydrogen bonds and or facilitate or impede the release of captured particles from the functionalized silica. For example the APS functionalized silica substrate typically provides greater release efficiency when releasing a coliphage PRD 1 particle than a coliphage MS 2 particle from the APS functionalized silica substrate.

Because a fluid may contain different types of microbe particles a capture apparatus described herein may include an array of various aminopropyl functionalized silica described herein and or silica functionalized with any other suitable positively charged materials. For example the silica beads in the example capture apparatus or may include a plurality of aminopropyl functionalized silica beads functionalized with APS aminopropyl material and a plurality of silica beads functionalized with DPS aminopropyl materials and or any other combination thereof e.g. a plurality of EPS and or LS aminopropyl functionalized silica beads . In this manner a fluid sample having different types of microbe particles e.g. a first viral particle different from a second viral particle that have different capture and or release characteristics may be used with a capture apparatus described herein having the various functionalized silica.

The elution solution containing the microbe particle provides a concentration solution e.g. an eluate solution that is recovered from the column using for example a container a detection device etc. The concentrated fluid is compatible with assay procedures and thus may be analyzed to detect the presence of microbe particles using any analysis process es such as for example an nucleic acid based procedure e.g. PCR .

Typically an elution solution includes beef extract. However removing the beef extract from the eluent may render the concentration solution more compatible with assay based procedures e.g. PCR based assay which may otherwise be substantially inhibited due to the abundance of nucleic acids of calf origin arising from the beef extract rich solutions. An example elution solution may include approximately 0.25 M threonine approximately 0.5 M glycine approximately 0.5 M lysine approximately 0.1 cetyltrimethylammonium bromide approximately 0.1 sodium dodecylsulfate and approximately 0.01 polysorbate. Of course an elution solution containing beef extract is compatible with the apparatus and methods described herein.

As stated above an amino functionalized silica substrate e.g. beads described herein may be functionalized using an aminopropyl material such as for example 3 aminopropyl functionalized silica APS 3 ethylenediamino propyl functionalized silica EPS 3 diethylenetriamino propyl functionalized silica DPS and lupamin coated silica LS . Functionalizing the silica substrate with an amino functionalized material may be prepared according to the following reaction chemistries drying a silica gel and adding an aminopropyl material in dry toluene to the dried silica gel refluxing the silica gel with the added aminopropyl material under continuous stirring for a predetermined duration of time thereby forming a functionalized silica gel and filtering the functionalized silica gel. Functionalizing the silica gel may further include washing the functionalized silica gel with at least one of water toluene acetone or methanol and after washing the functionalized silica gel further drying the silica gel.

For instance the following chemistries may be used to prepare the example functionalized silica substrate of with APS EPS DPS and LS. In one example the APS amino modified silica is prepared with approximately six grams of silica gel such as for example 70 270 mesh chromatography grade Sigma Aldrich Saint Louis Mo. The silica gel is dried at approximately 150 C. for a duration of time e.g. overnight . The dried silica gel is then added to approximately 150 ml of 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane in dry toluene to form a slurry. The slurry is refluxed for approximately 20 hours under continuous stirring. The APS amino modified silica gels are filtered washed with toluene acetone and or methanol and then dried at approximately 105 C. for about 4 hours and or any other suitable temperature or duration of time.

An example EPS amino modified silica may be prepared similar to the method of preparing the APS except for using 3 2 aminoethyl amino propyl trimethoxysilane in place of 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane.

The DPS amino modified silica is prepared by adding approximately 6 grams of silica gel in approximately 150 mL of 3 N 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl diethylenetriamine in about 1 mM acetic acid. The mixture is stirred continuously for approximately 3 hours. The mixture is then filtered and washed with water and dried at approximately 105 C. for about 4 hours.

The amino modified silica Lupamin coated silica LS is prepared by mixing approximately 2 grams of silica with approximately 20 ml of 2 mg ml polyvinylamine and stirred for about 3 hours. The amino functionalized silica is washed with water and dried for use.

The effectiveness of the amino functionalized silica substrates ability to capture and release microbe particles is illustrated in the examples described below. In particular silica beads functionalized with APS EPS DPS and LS were prepared in duplicate groups and the first group was exposed to contaminated fluid samples containing bacteriophages MS 2 microbe particles while the second group was exposed to fluid samples containing bacteriophages PRD 1 microbe particles. Following the capture of the MS 2 and PRD 1 microbe particles the viruses were released from the respective functionalized silica bead groups using various types of eluents. The capture and release efficiencies for each of the APS EPS DPS and LS functionalized silica beads exposed to the bacteriphages MS 2 and PRD 1 are shown in tables 2 and 3 below.

Capture efficiencies were categorized as a function of the zeta potentials of the respective amino functionalized silica beads. A zeta potential is the overall charge a particle acquires in a specific medium such as for example an aqueous solution. Prior to exposing the amino functionalized silica to the contaminated fluid the zeta potentials of the APS EPS DPS and LS functionalized silica beads were measured as a function of pH conditions. Variations in pH levels alters the zeta potential which is a factor affecting the capture efficiency of microbe particles. Thus buffer solutions were prepared having varies pH levels and were applied to the amino functionalized silica beads to determine the pH effect on the zeta potentials of the amino functionalized silica substrates. The zeta potentials were used to establish an index for monitoring the density of the functionalized groups and the charge behavior of the functionalized silica surfaces. Additionally the morphology of the silica particles was studied by scanning electron microscopy SEM and used to characterize the bare and functionalized silica beads.

Bacteriophages MS 2 ATCC 15597 B1 and PRD 1 BAA 769 B1 and Famp host bacteria ATCC 700801 were purchased from the American Type Culture Collection Gaithersburg Md. . Bacteriophages were plaque purified and propagated to high titer using host cells according to the double agar layer infectivity method described by Adams Adams 1959 recovered in small volumes of phosphate buffered saline pooled and extracted using chloroform before aliquotting samples for use throughout the project. Virus stocks and host cells were archived in 20 glycerol vol vol at 70 C.

Approximately 50 mg of silica particles with and without positively charged material functionalization were deposited into microcentrifuge tubes in duplicate and supplemented with 1 mL of bacteriophage MS 2 approximately 100 200 plaque forming units PFU per unit volume . Silica bacteriophage suspensions were vortexed every 30 seconds over a 5 minute period. The tubes were then centrifuged for 2 min at 2 000 g at 10 C. and supernatants were transferred to sterile polypropylene tubes. Pelleted beads were then supplemented with 1.0 mL of elution solution and vortexed every 30 seconds for a total 5 min followed by centrifugation as before. The eluates were then transferred into clean sterile tubes. The supernatants and eluates were then subjected to infectivity assay double agar layer method to identify the number of viable viruses captured and eluted from the functionalized silica beads.

Viruses were quantified according to the double agar layer method Adams 1959 . In brief 0.1 to 0.5 mL of supernatant or eluate samples was added to 5 mL of molten top agar 0.9 wt vol containing log phase host from overnight cultures and poured into 100 mm plates containing nutrient bottom agar. After 16 24 hours incubations at 37 C. clear zones of lysis viral plaques were enumerated. Virus concentrations were determined as the mean sum of plaques across duplicate plates corrected for dilution.

A zeta potential of the amino functionalized silica particles were measured and analyzed. The zeta potentials were used to establish an index for monitoring the density of the functionalized groups and the charge behavior of the functionalized silica surfaces. Zeta potentials of functionalized silica particles were measured with a Zeta Potential Analyzer Brookhaven Instruments Corporation Holtsville N.Y. . Particles were suspended in deionized water or phosphate buffers adjusted for pH. Raman spectrometry was used for characterizing the functionalized silica surfaces. The Raman spectra of functionalized silica were measured with an in Via Raman Microscope Renishaw UK .

When particles are suspended in an electrolyte solution a layer of counter ions exhibiting a charge opposite to those on the surface form a charged double layer around the particle. The potential drop across the double layer is the Zeta potential and its magnitude and sign reflects the density and charges of the surfaces. When functionalized groups are modified on the surface of the particle the Zeta potential can be altered because the functionalized groups change the surface charge and sometimes the thickness of the double layer due to the finite size of the functional group. Hence the Zeta potential can be used as a measure of the density of the functionalized groups.

The Zeta potential of bare silica gel in water was measured to be 27 mV to 35 mV which indicates that silica exhibits a negatively charged surface in water unsuitable for virus capture unless acidic conditions are imposed to effect charge reversal. is a graphical depiction of a pH effect on the zeta potentials of the example amino functionalized silica of wherein pH buffers were prepared with 10 mM phosphate buffer. Referring to as depicted by the graphical representation the zeta potentials of amino functionalized silica particles were measured as a function of pH condition. Prior to chemical modification bare silica shows a negative zeta potential above pH 3.0 due to the dissociation of protons from the silanol group. After chemical modification of the surface with amino groups the amino groups can accept protons and become positively charged NH species. As such a positive zeta potential is detected under acidic conditions. Under alkaline conditions the zeta potentials of LS EPS and APS exhibit negative zeta potentials probably due to the dissociation of protons from the amino groups and the residual silanol Si OH groups form NHand Si O species.

A key comparison is between the APS and DPS functionalized silica. As depicted in the graph of DPS changes the Zeta potential more readily at alkaline conditions while APS is more effective at acidic conditions. Across the pH range of 4 8 the shift in zeta potential was relatively low e.g. 15 mV . This key difference under conditions of extreme pH reflects the importance of the relative position of functional groups for the APS and DPS formulations shown in . APS amino groups are end groups that protonate to form NH whereas the DPS formula includes multiple NH functional groups within the silica matrix. These two sites have different titration features and different affinities for negatively charged viruses. The ionizable groups on the outer surface of the microorganism include carboxylic acids organophosphates amine and sometimes sulfate moieties. Multiple NH sites on the functionalized silica offer multiple hydrogen bonds for the functional groups on the surface of the virus particle including carboxylic acids COOH . Because the hydrogen bond is a weaker intermolecular reaction viruses captured by hydrogen bonding are more readily released.

The zeta potentials of bacteriophage MS 2 pH 7.3 TSB and bacteriophage PRD 1 pH 7.6 TSB were measured as 11.27 mV and 8.58 mV respectively reflecting the negative charges of these viruses aqueous solutions at neutral pH. The observed negative zeta potential is consistent with the isoelectric point pI of MS 2 previously determined as 3.9 Zinder N. D. Ed. RNA Phages Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York USA 1975 pp. 7 8 . Because the pI of MS 2 falls below the pH of neutrality the net charge on the outer surface of bacteriophage MS 2 is negative. Based on these zeta potential measurements the amino functionalized silica can possess an opposite charge from the virus and hence electrostatic attractions between the functional groups and the virus particles can be harnessed as a trapping or capturing mechanism.

The morphology of the silica particles was studied by scanning electron microscopy SEM . As shown in the shapes of the silica particles are not uniform and particle sizes ranged from approximately 50 to 100 micrometers with a distinct non porous surface. A graphical depiction of the Raman spectra of the bare silica and the amino functionalized silica are presented in Laser 633 nm Grating 1800 lines mm Exposure time 10 s Accumulations 10 times . According to the observed spectral shifts functionalization of the bare silica resulted in a shift of peak absorbance from around 2000 cmto 2900 cmfor both the APS and DPS formulations. When the functionalized silica bead constructs were challenged with model viruses the intensity of the observed spectral peaks decreased indicating an interaction between the functionalized amino groups and the coliphage particles.

Table 1 shows the change in zeta potential exhibited by silica particles before and after virus capture. Because the bare silica preparations exhibit a negative charge the bare silica i.e. the nonfunctionalized silica were ineffective in binding the negatively charged virus particles the negligible shifts in zeta potential following challenge either with coliphage MS 2 or PRD 1 were consistent when bare silica was challenged with coliphage. However the zeta potentials of the APS and DPS constructs changed appreciably from positive to negative values following virus capture with both model microorganisms. This is consistent with the high efficiency virus binding that was observed with the two model coliphages 95.5 99.8 Table 2 based on the intermolecular electrostatic attraction and specific interactions such as hydrogen bonding between the viruses and functionalized amino groups.

Tables 2 and 3 show the capture and release efficiencies of the amino functionalized silica substrates respectively. illustrates schematic illustrations of several suggested models of virus capture on the amino functionalized silica substrates. Referring to the bare silica exhibited poor virus binding efficiency e.g. 9 13 due to electrostatic repulsion between the negatively charged virus surface and the negatively charged silanol groups following dissociation of a proton. The small level of virus capture observed e.g. ca. 10 may have been associated with physical adsorption of virus onto the silica surface as shown in or failure to wash away residual viruses from the aqueous supernatant. The high efficiency of virus capture observed for the APS DPS and LS constructs 98 Table 2 were caused by high density of positively charged amino groups facilitating electrostatic attraction and other intermolecular interactions like hydrogen bonds as depicted in .

Although the virus capture efficiencies of the three silica constructs were comparable their capacities to release bound viruses were quite different See Table 3 . Binding between coliphage MS 2 and the APS construct was essentially irreversible e.g. 4 of captured viruses could be released . However interactions between this construct and coliphage PRD 1 could be readily reversed e.g. 70 of bound viruses could be released . Conversely the coliphage MS 2 could be recovered readily from the DPS construct whereas release of coliphage PRD 1 was relatively low e.g. 32 of bound viruses could be recovered . Recoveries of model viruses from the Lupamin construct were intermediate ranging from essentially zero MS 2 to 21 PRD 1 .

These results show that there are differences in the interactions between the model viruses and the different types of functionalized silica. A number of potential capture mechanisms are suggested in . As shown in Lupamin LS is a long linear polyvinylamine which is likely to manifest itself as an entangled conformation on silica surface Viogt I. Simon F. Estel K. Spange S 2001 17 3080 3086 . The thicknesses of the charged double layer in 1 mM and 100 mM KCl aqueous solutions are calculated to be 10 nm and 1 nm respectively Brookhaven Instruments Corporation Zeta Potential Analyzer Instruction Manual P. 26 . The length of a single carbon bond is known to be 0.154 nm. The positively charged multiple amino groups on the surface of the silica and the virus capsid are hence likely to be surrounded by a double layer cloud.

When protein rich eluents are utilized to release or sever the connection between bound viruses and charged silica surfaces this double layer screening may eliminate the attractive force between suspended proteins and the silica virus complex. As a result virus binding cannot be readily reversed by substituting the virus binding site on the silica with a protein or surfactant molecule. The weaker PRD 1 charge density relative to MS 2 8.58 mV vs. 11.27 mv suggests that PRD 1 may be more readily substituted and released at each binding site. This is indeed true for the APS functionalized bead but not so for the DPS construct. The weaker hydrogen bonding between NH groups on the DPS and the charged carboxylic acid groups on the virus surface would also suggest easier release of the virus.

The same reason would argue that DPS would exhibit the highest release efficiency for coliphage PRD 1. While a high release rate for this combination was observed See Table 3 the efficiency of release was approximately 50 of that observed for PRD 1 on the DPS construct. The reduction in release efficiency may have resulted because viruses bound by multiple interactions may be more difficult to reverse than those bound by single intermolecular reactions. For example the DPS construct includes NHsites on DPS that may exhibit comparable lengths with the COOH and NHsites on the surface of the model coliphage PRD 1 to the extent that multiple binding sites may be involved with each virus adsorption event. DPS exhibited the highest release efficiency for coliphage MS 2 Table 3 due to the extended length of the DPS functional group and its rigid conformation which may facilitate an interaction that allows the group to protrude inside the double layer and attract the substituting proteins and surfactants by intermolecular interactions as illustratively depicted in .

Typically beef extract based virus elution solutions are used to release viruses. Beef extract elution solution may be modified to include surfactants and additional amino acids to adjust the zeta potential and improve the virus release efficiency. Following the initial characterization of the virus binding properties of each silica matrix the effects of the modified eluants upon the release efficiency of coliphage MS 2 using the APS construct were examined. The following eluants were examined 1.5 beef extract 3.0 beef extract defined amino acids including 0.5M glycine and 0.5M lysine and surfactants such as 0.1 cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB 0.1 sodium dodecylsulfate SDS and 0.01 polysorbate Tween 80 . All combinations of eluant components studied exhibited poor elution efficiency less than 4.5 for coliphage MS 2 captured on the APS construct. As indicated in and the aminopropyl group APS is relatively short and the captured MS 2 particle is screened by the double layer ion cloud such that the protein and surfactants cannot be attracted to the sites on the functional group to release the captured virus. Conversely the APS construct has only a single NH group which lacks multiple hydrogen bonding mechanism thus resulting in low release efficiency.

The higher release efficiency of bacteriophage MS 2 exhibited by the DPS II construct was associated with the longer 3 diethylenetriamino propyl group that may protrude inside the double layer and offer multiple NHsites for weaker hydrogen bonds. Among the elution solutions examined 1.5 beef extract was the most essential component of the elution solution. When eluants were supplemented with 0.1 CTAB elution efficiencies decreased. The addition of both 0.1 anionic surfactant SDS and 0.01 0.1 nonionic surfactant Tween80 improved release efficiencies. However increasing the concentration of surfactant beyond 0.01 did not improve virus recoveries significantly. Use of defined component eluants either lysine or glycine did not result in efficient release of model viruses with the exception of 0.5M lysine supplemented with 0.01 Tween 80.

The substitution of 0.25M glycine Gly and 0.25M threonine Thr for the primary eluent component beef extract resulted in a 42 virus release efficiency. Thus the beef extract may be removed from the eluent altogether rendering the concentrates much more compatible with PCR based assay techniques which otherwise may be inhibited substantially by the abundance of nucleic acids of calf origin arising from the beef extract rich solutions. The highest release efficiency observed with these eluents 79 was observed when 1.5 beef extract was supplemented with 0.25M glycine and 0.01 Tween 80. Similar release characteristics were observed for bacteriophage PRD 1 where the elution efficiencies ranged from 30 to 43.5 .

Since the pH levels of field samples varies considerably it is important to determine the efficiency of virus capture using functionalized silica across a range of pH values. is a graphical depiction of the pH effect on capture efficiency of example DPS and APS amino functionalized silica spiked concentrations of MS 2 9.0 10to 4.7 10pfu ml for DPS VI and APS II in tube 740 887 pfu ml for DPS VI in a column and 2.9 10to 1.1 10pfu ml . The results illustrated in indicate that functionalized silica constructs DPS VI and APS II capture viruses very efficiently from pH 3 to 9. Overall more than 98 of the seeded viruses were captured between pH 5 and pH 7. The highest capture efficiency was achieved at pH 7. Even at pH 9 both constructs exhibited capture efficiencies of approximately 98 . Under extremely acidic conditions e.g. a pH level of 3 the zeta potential is very high See which suggests that the functionalized silica exhibits a high density of positive charge. However as the isoelectric point pI of MS2 is 3.9 Zinder N. D. Ed. RNA Phages Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory New York USA 1975 pp. 7 8 when ambient pH levels fall below the pI some of functional groups on the virus capsid exhibit positive charge resulting in a decreased capture efficiency.

It is important to understand the capture capacity under a wide range of virus concentrations for applying functionalized silica to field samples. To determine capture efficiencies across a range of virus concentrations 10 10 and 10pfu of viral particles were seeded into 1 ml volumes of reagent water in microcentrifuge tubes. Viruses were captured by DPS VI and released using 1.5 beef extract 0.25M glycine 0.1 tween80 at pH9.0. is a graphical depiction illustrating the correlation between spiked and recovered concentrations of virus MS 2.

Referring to DPS VI was capable of capturing 99.7 of the viruses seeded regardless of the spiking concentrations. These results demonstrate that the capture capacity of the functionalized silica material is more than sufficient to accommodate the range of virus concentrations that may be expected in natural waters. The good linear relationship between the concentrations of spike and recovery indicates that captured virus on the functionalized silica media can be dynamically released by a specific elution solution.

The example methods and apparatus described herein provide an effective microbe particle capture apparatus that includes amino functionalized silica materials to capture microbe particles e.g. virus particles from fluids e.g. water samples . The example methods and apparatus described herein may filter fluid and or provide concentrated solution compatible with assay procedures using for example elution solutions. The example amino functionalized silica materials include positively charged materials such as for example aminopropyl materials e.g. APS DPS EPS LS that can capture virus with efficiencies exceeding 95 .

Because the 3 diethylenetriamino propyl group in the DPS construct relies upon hydrogen bonding with virus particles these relatively weak interactions are more readily broken for efficient release of captured viruses. For example the recoveries for bacteriophage MS 2 were 79 and the recoveries for PRD 1 were 32 when captured on DPS and released using elution solutions containing 1.5 beef extract 0.25 M glycine and 0.01 Tween 80. The functionalized silica substrates are capable of capturing viruses quite efficiently across a wide range of virus concentrations and pH values. Additionally or alternatively as viruses have long been very challenging to concentrate the functionalized silica materials may be tailored towards a wide variety of virus filtering and concentration applications. Thus for example the amino functionalized silica particles described herein may be applied to concentrate viruses in water samples with a wide range of pHs and virus densities.

Although certain methods and apparatus have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods and apparatus fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

