---

title: Custom search index data security
abstract: A system includes a server to store content and a content searching system. The content search system includes an application programming interface to receive user-selected metadata uploaded from a first user, where the metadata includes data that describes content stored at a server. The content searching system further includes an indexer to index the metadata to produce a metadata search index, a search engine to search the metadata search index based on a search query received from a user to produce metadata search results, and a delivery engine to send the metadata search results, and a link to the remote server, to the user to permit the user to access the content stored at the remote server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442994&OS=08442994&RS=08442994
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08442994
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080912
---
The instant application claims priority from provisional application No. 60 972 511 filed Sep. 14 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The World Wide Web web contains a vast amount of information. Locating a desired portion of the information however can be challenging. This problem is compounded because the amount of information on the web and the number of new users inexperienced at web searching are growing rapidly. Search engines assist users in locating desired portions of this information by cataloging web pages. Typically in response to a user s request the search engine returns references to documents relevant to the request.

A web crawler is typically used to find and retrieve documents e.g. web pages on the web. To retrieve a document from the web the web crawler sends a request to for example a web server for a document downloads the entire document and then provides the document to an indexer. The indexer typically takes the text of the crawled document extracts individual terms from the text and sorts those terms e.g. alphabetically into a search index. The web crawler and indexer repeat this process as the web crawler crawls documents across the web. Each entry in the search index contains a term stored in association with a list of documents in which the term appears and the location within the document where the term appears. The search index thus permits rapid access to documents that contain terms that match search terms of a user supplied search query. To improve search performance the indexer typically ignores common words called stop words e.g. the is on or of how why etc. when creating or updating the search index. Existing indexers create a single search index that contains terms extracted from all documents crawled on the web.

According to one aspect a method may include receiving first custom content associated with a first user where the first custom content includes data that is uploaded by the first user via an application programming interface or includes data that is designated by the first user from a set of documents. The method may further include indexing the first custom content to produce a first custom search index receiving a search query from a second user and searching the first custom search index based on the search query to produce first custom search results. The method may also include encrypting the first custom search results and providing the encrypted first custom search results to the second user.

According to another aspect a method may include receiving user selected metadata uploaded from a first user where the metadata includes data that describes other data stored at a server. The method may further include indexing the metadata to produce a metadata search index receiving a search query from a second user and searching the metadata search index based on the search query to produce metadata search results. The method may also include sending the metadata search results and a link to the server to the second user to permit the second user to access the other data stored at the server.

According to a further aspect a method may include receiving metadata and associated encrypted content where the metadata includes data that describes the encrypted content. The method may further include indexing the metadata to produce a metadata search index receiving a search query from a user and searching the metadata search index based on the search query to produce metadata search results. The method may also include sending the metadata search results to the user receiving selection of a result from the metadata search results and sending the encrypted content to the user.

According to an additional aspect a system may include a database to store encrypted content and a search index that indexes metadata that includes data that describes the encrypted content. The system may further include a content searching unit to search the search index to produce metadata search results. The system may also include a delivery engine to send the metadata search results to a user and send a portion of the encrypted content to the user based on user selection of a result from the metadata search results.

According to yet another aspect a system may include a server to store content and a content searching system. The content searching system may include an application programming interface to receive user selected metadata uploaded from a first user where the metadata includes data that describes content stored at a server. The content searching system may further include an indexer to index the metadata to produce a metadata search index a search engine to search the metadata search index based on a search query received from a user to produce metadata search results and a delivery engine to send the metadata search results and a link to the remote server to the user to permit the user to access the content stored at the remote server.

According to an additional aspect a system may include a first indexer to index first content uploaded from a first user to produce a first index and a second indexer to index second content uploaded from a second user to produce a second index. The system may further include one or more search engines to receive a search query from a third user and search the first index and or the second index based on the search query to produce first search results. The system may also include a security unit to encrypt the first search results for supplying the encrypted first search results to the third user.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Implementations described herein may permit a user to create their own corpora of customized content that may be accessed and searched by other users via a content searching service such as for example Google Search. A content searching system may crawl the web to retrieve web content and then index the retrieved web content to create a web search index. A user may also upload or otherwise identify custom content to the content searching system which may then index the custom content to create a custom search index that is different than the web search index. Other users may also upload their own custom content to the content searching system which may then be indexed to create different respective custom search indexes that are separate and distinct from the web search index and other custom search indexes.

Searching of custom content using the different custom search indexes may then be selectively permitted by users who may or may not have to be authenticated for the custom content that they wish to access e.g. search . For example the custom search index may store information different from the information stored by the web search index. In one implementation the custom search index may store a subset of the information stored in the web search index. In this case it may be possible for the custom search index to store pointers to information in the web search index. Alternatively or additionally the custom search index may store information that is not present in the web search index. Also the custom search index may be considered different from the web search index in the sense that the custom search index may be searchable separate from the web search index.

Various data security techniques as described herein may be used to protect custom content from unauthorized access. Such security techniques may include for example encrypting results of a search of custom content such that only authenticated users may decrypt the encrypted search results and associated custom content. Such security techniques may further include the storage indexing and searching of metadata that describes custom content that is stored at a data server that may be remote from the content searching system. A searching user may after searching the metadata to identify custom content of interest obtain the custom content via secure access to the data server. The data security techniques may further include the storage indexing and searching of metadata that describes custom content that is encrypted and stored at the content searching system. A searching user may after searching the metadata to identify custom content of interest obtain a decryption key from a data server that may be remote from the content searching system and may use the obtained decryption key to decrypt encrypted custom content stored at the content searching system.

 Content as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include data that may or may not be in document form. Examples of content may include data associated with a document or data in a database. Metadata as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted as a type of data that describes other data e.g. describes content . Metadata thus is data that describes characteristics of other data e.g. what the other data represents the other data s quality or condition etc. .

A document as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may include for example an e mail an image video a website a business listing a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files a news group posting a blog a web advertisement a digital map etc. In the context of the Internet a common document is a web page. Documents often include textual information and may include embedded information such as meta information images hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as Javascript etc. .

 Custom content as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include content that has been uploaded by a user for indexing content identified i.e. directly or indirectly by a user for indexing and or web content that is available only to selected subscribers via subscription. A user as that term is used here is to be broadly interpreted to include one or more people e.g. a person a group of people that may have some relationship e.g. people associated with a business or organization or a group of people with no formal relationship .

A link as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any reference to from a document from to another document or another part of the same document. A site as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include a group of documents hosted by any type of entity. A site may include a group of documents under common control such as a group of documents associated with an organization a domain name a host name or a set of documents created by the same person or group of persons. A site may also include a group of documents about a particular topic a group of documents in a particular language a group of documents hosted in a particular country or a group of documents written in a particular writing style.

Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document where the term or other data appears. Web search index may subsequently be used to search for specific documents whose content matches a search query .

As further shown in custom content may also be obtained. Custom content may include content uploaded by a user content designated by the user as being part of its custom content e.g. user designates one or more websites or web pages to be included in the user s custom content web content that is available only to selected subscribers via subscription or other types of content that may be aggregated and indexed separately from web search index e.g. the user may designate websites or web pages that contain content about a selected topic as being included in the user s custom content . An indexer not shown may index the obtained custom content to create a custom search index of content searching system that may be different from web search index e.g. custom search index may include information different from web search index and or custom search index may be searchable separate from web search index . The indexer may take the text or other data from custom content extract individual terms or other data from custom content and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data image data video data audio data etc.

Each entry in custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a location within custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may subsequently be used to search for specific content of custom content that matches a search query . Custom search index may include multiple custom search indexes not shown each being associated with a different corpus of custom content.

Search engine s may receive search query from a client and may selectively search either of web search index or custom search index or multiple different custom search indexes or may search both of web search index and custom search index or other different custom search indexes using search query . A search of web search index by search engine s may return web search results that match search query . A search of custom search index by search engine s may return custom search results that match search query . Web search results and custom search results may be represented together or separately within a search result document as will be described below.

Custom search results may be encrypted to generate encrypted custom search results and the encrypted custom search results may be sent to client . Custom search results may be encrypted using for example a symmetric encryption decryption key. Client may decrypt the encrypted custom search results using the symmetric encryption decryption key e.g. a one key single key or private key and symmetric decryption techniques e.g. Twofish Serpent AES Blowfish CAST5 RC4 IDEA . The encryption decryption key may be obtained by client from a custom content server that originally provided custom content to content searching system or from content searching system itself. Upon receipt client may decrypt encrypted custom search results to reproduce custom search results . Upon selection of one or more results from custom search results by a user at client client may send a content request to content searching system requesting a specific portion s of custom content . In reply content searching system may retrieve the custom content corresponding to content request encrypt the retrieved custom content using symmetric encryption decryption key to generate encrypted custom content and may then send encrypted custom content to client . Client may decrypt encrypted custom content using symmetric encryption decryption key .

As shown in web content may be retrieved using for example a web crawler not shown . The web crawler may find and retrieve documents e.g. web pages stored on the web and extract content from the documents. For example the web crawler may send a request to a web server for a document download the entire document and then provide the document to an indexer not shown . The indexer may then index the retrieved web content to create a web search index of a content searching system . The indexer may extract individual terms or other data from the crawled document and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into web search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing extensible markup language XML data image data video data audio date etc.

Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document where the term or other data appears. Web search index may subsequently be used to search for specific documents whose content matches a search query .

As further shown in custom content metadata may also be obtained which may correspond to custom content . Custom content may include data uploaded by a user metadata designated by the user as being associated with its custom content e.g. user designates one or more websites or web pages to be included in the user s custom content metadata associated with web content that is available only to selected subscribers via subscription or metadata associated with other types of content that may be aggregated and indexed separately from web search index e.g. the user may designate websites or web pages that contain content about a selected topic as being included in the user s custom content . Custom content metadata may describe custom content . Custom content corresponding to custom content metadata may be encrypted and then provided to content searching system as encrypted custom content . An indexer not shown may index the obtained custom content metadata to create a custom search index of content searching system that may be different from web search index e.g. custom search index may include information different from web search index and or custom search index may be searchable separate from web search index . The indexer may take the text or other data from custom content metadata extract individual terms or other data from custom content metadata and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data image data video data audio data etc.

Each entry in custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a location within custom content metadata where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may subsequently be used to search for specific content of custom content metadata that matches a search query . Custom search index may include multiple custom search indexes not shown each being associated with a different corpus of custom content metadata.

Search engine s may receive search query from a client and may selectively search either of web search index or custom search index or multiple different custom search indexes or may search both of web search index and custom search index or other different custom search indexes using search query . A search of web search index by search engine s may return web search results that match search query . A search of custom search index by search engine s may return metadata search results that match search query . Web search results and metadata search results may be represented together or separately within a search result document as will be described below. Metadata search results and web search results may be sent to client . Upon selection of one or more results from metadata search results by a user at client client may send a content request to content searching system requesting a specific portion s of encrypted custom content that corresponds to a selected metadata search result s . In reply content searching system may retrieve portions of encrypted custom content corresponding to content request and may then send encrypted custom content to client .

Client may also send a key request to custom content server . Custom content server in response to the request may send a decryption key e.g. a symmetric key to client . Client may subsequently decrypt encrypted custom content using the received key . Custom content server may have previously used key to encrypt custom content prior to providing encrypted custom content to content searching system .

As shown in custom content may be stored at custom content server . Custom content metadata that includes data that describes custom content may be provided to content searching system . An indexer not shown may index the provided custom content metadata to create a custom search index that may be different from web search index not shown in e.g. custom search index may include information different from web search index and or custom search index may be searchable separate from web search index not shown in . The indexer may take the text or other data from custom content metadata extract individual terms or other data from custom content metadata and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data image data video data audio data etc. Each entry in custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a location within custom content metadata where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may subsequently be used to search for specific content of custom content that matches search query . Custom search index may include multiple custom search indexes not shown each being associated with a different corpus of metadata custom content.

Search engine s may receive search query from a client and may selectively search either of web search index or custom search index or multiple different custom search indexes or may search both of web search index and custom search index or other different custom search indexes using search query . A search of web search index by search engine s may return web search results not shown in that match search query . A search of custom search index by search engine s may return metadata search results that match search query . Metadata search results a link to custom content server and a key may be provided to client . Key may include a symmetric encryption decryption key previously provided to content searching system by custom content server . Client may use the provided link to send a custom content request to custom content server . In response custom content server may send encrypted custom content that corresponds to the content requested by the custom content request. Client upon receipt of encrypted custom content may decrypt it using key .

As shown in custom content may be stored at custom content server . Custom content metadata that includes data that describes custom content may be provided to content searching system . An indexer not shown may index the provided custom content metadata to create a custom search index that may be different from web search index not shown in e.g. custom search index may include information different from web search index and or custom search index may be searchable separate from web search index not shown in . The indexer may take the text or other data from custom content metadata extract individual terms or other data from custom content metadata and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data image data video data audio data etc. Each entry in custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a location within custom content metadata where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may subsequently be used to search for specific content of custom content that matches search query . Custom search index may include multiple custom search indexes not shown each being associated with a different corpus of metadata custom content.

Search engine s may receive search query from a client and may selectively search either of web search index or custom search index or multiple different custom search indexes or may search both of web search index and custom search index or other different custom search indexes using search query . A search of web search index by search engine s may return web search results not shown in that match search query . A search of custom search index by search engine s may return metadata search results that match search query . Metadata search results and a link to custom content server may be provided to client .

Client may use the provided link to engage in a key exchange with custom content server . In one embodiment key exchange may include custom content server delivering a symmetric encryption decryption key to client . In another embodiment key exchange may include an exchange of asymmetric keys between client and custom content server . The asymmetric keys may be associated with a public private key asymmetric encryption decryption scheme e.g. Diffie Hellman DSS ElGamal RSA IKI PGP SSL ssh . For example client may send its public key to custom content server and custom content server may send its public key to client . Subsequent to key exchange custom content server may encrypt the custom content using client s public key and custom content server s private key and send encrypted custom content to client . Upon receipt client may decrypt encrypted custom content using client s private key and custom content server s public key.

Clients may include client entities. A client entity may be defined as a device such as a personal computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a lap top or another type of computation or communication device a thread or process running on one of these devices and or an object executable by one of these devices. Clients may implement a browser for browsing documents stored at data server s . Clients may also use the browser for accessing content searching system to search documents e.g. web content associated with data server s and or custom content as described further below.

Data server s may store or maintain documents that may be browsed by clients or may be crawled by content searching system . Such documents may include data related to published news stories products images user groups geographic areas or any other type of data. For example data server s may store or maintain news stories from any type of news source such as for example the Washington Post the New York Times Time magazine or Newsweek. As another example server s may store or maintain data related to specific products such as product data provided by one or more product manufacturers. As yet another example server s may store or maintain data related to other types of web documents such as pages of web sites e.g. web content .

Content searching system may include one or more hardware and or software components that access fetch index search and or maintain general web documents and or custom content documents. Content searching system may implement a data aggregation service by crawling a corpus of documents e.g. web pages hosted on data server s indexing the documents and storing information associated with these documents in a repository of crawled documents. The aggregation service may be implemented in other ways such as by agreement with the operator s of data server s to distribute their documents via the data aggregation service.

Custom content server s may store unencrypted and or encrypted custom content. Custom content server s may further store decryption keys that may be used to decrypt encrypted custom content. In one implementation custom content server s may be separate from e.g. remote from content searching system and or data server s .

While content searching system and server s and are shown as separate entities it may be possible for content searching system to perform one or more of the functions of servers or and vice versa. For example it may be possible for content searching system and server s or to be implemented as a single entity. It may also be possible for one of content searching system or server s or to be implemented as two or more separate and possibly distributed devices.

Network may include one or more networks of any type including a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN an intranet the Internet or a combination of networks. The PLMN s may further include a packet switched sub network such as for example General Packet Radio Service GPRS Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD or Mobile IP sub network. Clients content searching system and server s or may connect to network via wired and or wireless connections.

Web search unit may crawl documents e.g. containing web content stored at data server s index the crawled documents to create a web search index and search the crawled documents using the web search index. Custom content search unit may obtain custom content such as for example content uploaded from users content designated by a user as being part of its custom content e.g. the user designates one or more web sites or web pages to be included in the user s custom content content obtained from sources that require subscriptions for access to the content and or content on a given topic that may be obtained and aggregated from multiple sources index the content in separate custom search indexes to create multiple different custom search indexes and search the custom content using one or more of the different custom search indexes .

Index database may store a web search index and one or more custom search indexes . Index database may store web search index and the one or more custom search indexes as different data structures that may be searched independently of one another. Alternatively index database may store one or more custom search indexes within the same data structure as web search index in a manner that they may be searched independently of one another.

Security unit may authenticate users desiring to upload custom content to custom content search unit and or may authenticate users desiring to search one or more custom content indexes associated with custom content. Security unit may authenticate users by passing authentication tokens to the users which define the custom search indexes that are accessible by a particular user and may contain security keys to permit encryption for sensitive information. Security unit may authenticate users and authorize custom content search unit to permit access to selected custom search indexes to the authenticated users.

Accounting unit may establish and modify user access rights may record and report user access to selected custom search indexes may obtain feedback from users accessing given custom search indexes and or may track and control access to given custom search indexes based on whether users have subscribed to the custom search indexes.

Result formatter may return search results obtained from web search unit and or custom content search unit in a formatted and organized manner. Result formatter may combine custom content search results together with web content search results in a way that is meaningful to the user e.g. in a hypertext markup language HTML page . Bus and or network may include a communication path such as for example a system bus or a network that permits web search unit custom content search unit security unit accounting unit and result formatter to communicate with one another and with entities on network . Custom content database may store custom content custom content metadata and or encrypted custom content for use by custom content search unit .

Although shows exemplary components of content searching system in other implementations content searching system may include fewer different or additional components than depicted in . In still other implementations one or more components of content searching system may perform the tasks performed by one or more other components of content searching system .

Web crawler may find and retrieve web content e.g. web documents and provide the retrieved web content to web content indexer . For example web crawler may send a request to a web server for a web document download the web document and then provide the web document to web content indexer . Web content indexer may index web content to create web search index . For example web content indexer may take the text or other data of a given crawled document extract individual terms or other data from the text of the document and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into web search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data image data video data audio data etc. Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document where the term or other data appears.

Web search engine may search web search index based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data e.g. video data image data audio data etc. contained in entries in web search index . Web search engine may retrieve a corresponding list of documents from each entry in web search index that matches a term of the search query. The lists of documents retrieved from one or more entries in web search index may be returned as web search results . In one implementation each result of web search results may include a uniform resource locator URL associated with a corresponding search result document and possibly a snippet of content extracted from the corresponding search result document.

Custom content upload API may receive custom content or custom content metadata uploaded from one or more users e.g. one or more authenticated users . For example a user at custom content server may upload custom content or custom content metadata to custom content search unit via custom content upload API . The uploaded content may include data of any type or format. In one implementation the uploaded content may include metadata e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML data . The metadata may describe corresponding content and may include pointers to actual content. In another implementation custom content upload API may include a translation engine for translating any type or format of uploaded data into a particular type or format of data that can be more easily processed by custom content indexer . Custom content upload API may pass the received custom content to custom content indexer .

Custom content crawler may crawl specific content on the web or within one or more databases to retrieve documents that may be indexed in a corresponding custom search index . Custom content crawler may crawl any type of document or database including for example flatfiles binary files etc. For example custom content crawler may crawl available documents on the web containing content directed to a specific topic e.g. dogs football etc. or documents identified by a custom content provider e.g. the owner of a corpus of custom content . As an additional example custom content crawler may crawl documents similar to documents identified by the custom content provider as being part of the provider s custom content. The custom content provider may thus designate content that may be grouped together and searched via the provider s custom search index. Custom content crawler may in some implementations need to be authenticated by content providers associated with specific custom content crawled on the web or within one or more databases. Custom content crawler may pass the crawled custom content to custom content indexer .

Custom content indexer may index custom content or custom content metadata to create custom search index es . For example custom content indexer may take the text or other data of custom content or custom content metadata extract individual terms from the text or other data of custom content or custom content metadata and sort those terms or other data e.g. alphabetically into a single custom search index . Other techniques for extracting and indexing content that are more complex than simple word level indexing may also be used including techniques for indexing XML data images videos etc. Each entry in a custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with an item of content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears.

Custom search engine may search custom search index es based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data contained in entries in custom search index es . If custom search index es includes multiple different custom search indexes then custom search engine may search based on the received search query and possibly user authentication selected ones of the different custom search indexes. Custom search engine may retrieve a corresponding list of items of custom content from each entry in custom search index that matches a term of the search query. The lists of items of content retrieved from one or more entries in custom search index may be returned as custom search results . In one implementation each result of custom search results may include a URL associated with a corresponding search result document and possibly a snippet of content extracted from the corresponding search result document. Data delivery engine content formatter may receive the search results from custom search engine format the search results into a meaningful data format e.g. into a HTML document that can be received and displayed by the user e.g. via a web browser . Data delivery engine may customize the formatting of the search results e.g. the content and visual format of the data received from custom search engine based on individual user preferences or based on the preferences of the custom content provider whose custom content is being searched.

Authentication unit may include functionality for authenticating users that upload custom content to custom content searching system and or functionality for authenticating users that wish to access and search custom content indexed by custom content searching system . Authentication unit may for example authenticate a user and pass one or more authentication tokens e.g. one authentication token for accessing custom content associated with one or more custom search indexes for each custom search index or group of custom search indexes to a particular user where the one or more authentication tokens may include security keys intended to allow for channel encryption e.g. for sensitive or confidential custom content that needs secure transmission . Encryption unit may include functionality for distributing encryption keys obtained from key database to clients and for encrypting and decrypting data sent to or received from clients . Key database may store encryption key material that may be retrieved for distribution to clients for encrypting and decrypting data sent to or received from clients .

Each one of custom search indexes through N may include multiple index entries with each entry containing a term or other data stored in association with an item of custom content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search engine may search custom search index es based on a received search query to match terms of the search query with terms or other data contained in entries in custom search index es .

The exemplary process may begin with obtaining custom content and or custom content metadata from one or more sources block . For example custom content upload API may upload custom content or custom content metadata from one or more users at custom content server s . As another example custom content upload API may upload subscription content from one or more subscription content service providers. As an additional example subscription content from one or more subscription content service providers or content from documents obtained from multiple sources that is related to a same topic may be obtained from custom content crawler of custom content search unit for indexing in respective custom indexes. As an additional example custom content crawler may crawl documents e.g. web documents designated by the user e.g. the owner of a corpus of custom content as being part of the user s custom content. The user may thus designate content e.g. web documents that may be grouped together and searched via the user s custom search index. In one implementation the obtained custom content metadata may also include identifiers that identify the encryption scheme used to encrypt corresponding custom content stored at custom content server .

Custom content crawler may also crawl and retrieve content from web documents that may be ranked relatively low by web search engine for inclusion in a respective custom search index. Custom content crawler therefore may crawl content already crawled by web crawler that may be ranked higher with respect to a given corpus of custom content as compared to ranking of the content by web search engine . For example documents about a certain topic may be ranked highly with respect to content associated with a custom search index that is related to that topic. An owner of a corpus of custom content may thus group together content that the owner desires to be included in the corpus of custom content e.g. uploaded custom content grouped together with other user designated content such as for example user designated web documents .

Many different types of custom content may be uploaded and indexed consistent with exemplary embodiments. For example a given custom search index may aggregate and index multiple subscription based web sites. If a user subscribes to a group of subscription based web sites then the user can search content from all of the subscription based web sites simultaneously using a single custom search index. As another example a company may upload all of their company events policies etc. to a custom search index such that only company employees may search the custom search index. As an additional example a company such as for example Netflix may upload custom content to their own custom search index. Netflix can increase traffic to their own web site by building a custom search index of their movie titles. Users may then join a Netflix custom index group and automatically receive movie title search results when they perform a regular web search e.g. a Google search on google.com . Moreover Netflix could tag new movie releases so that Netflix users can just type the search query new releases in for example the Google search interface and receive newly released movie titles as part of the returned search results. As yet another example a software company such as for example Oracle could upload their knowledge base to their own custom search index and then make this knowledge base available only to licensed users. The knowledge base could include frequently asked questions FAQs documentation troubleshooting tips customer support information bugs etc. As a further example local libraries Amazon.com or Barnes Nobles could create their own custom indexes. Then when a user who enjoys reading books searches a topic e.g. using Google search and when there are books that match that search the books may be returned as results in the search results so that the user may check for pricing and or availability. As yet another example a user could create a custom search index relating to a particular topic by identifying documents e.g. web documents relating to that topic. As another example a user can create a custom search index containing his bookmarks e.g. favorite web pages or sites that can be shared with and or searched by other users.

Access control data associated with the obtained custom content or custom content metadata may be received optional block . Each custom search index through N may or may not have access control data associated with it. Thus some of custom search indexes through N may be restricted to authenticated users e.g. subscribing users while others may not e.g. available to non subscribing users . The received access control data may also be associated with other custom content. Therefore a given user may subscribe to or have an account that is associated with N different custom search indexes thus permitting the given user to search those indexes automatically for each of the user s searches. The access control data may include data used for authenticating users who may supply additional custom content to a given custom search index or for authenticating users who may access and search custom content associated with a given custom search index. For example the access control data may include a log in identifier and a password for a respective user. Authentication unit may store the received access control data for use in subsequent user authentication.

The custom content or custom content metadata may be indexed to produce a custom search index block . For example custom content indexer may take the text of custom content or custom content metadata received from a user e.g. the custom content provider extract individual terms or other data from custom content or custom content metadata and sort those terms e.g. alphabetically into a custom search index . Each entry in a custom search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with an item of content in which the term or other data appears and a location within the custom content where the term or other data appears. Custom search index may be stored in index database .

The web may be crawled to obtain web content optional block . For example web crawler may find and retrieve web content e.g. from web documents and hand the retrieved web content off to web content indexer . Web crawler may send a request to a web server for a web page download the entire web page and then hand the web page off to web content indexer .

The obtained web content may then be indexed to produce a web search index optional block . Web content indexer may index received web content to create web search index . For example web content indexer may take the text or other data of a given crawled document extract individual terms or other data from the document and sort those terms or other e.g. alphabetically into web search index . Each entry in web search index may contain a term or other data stored in association with a list of documents in which the term or other data appears and the location within the document s text where the term or other data appears. Web search index may be stored in index database .

The exemplary process may begin with the receipt of a request from a user requesting access to specific custom content block . For example the access request may include a log in identifier and password supplied by the user. As shown in a user at a client may select a custom content search tab contained in a search document displayed by the user s browser. Fields such as for example a custom content identifier field a custom content log in field and a custom content password field may then be displayed in search document . The user may enter appropriate data into fields and to authenticate himself herself as having a right to access the desired custom content. As further shown in the user at client may select a web custom content search tab . The user may enter appropriate data into fields and to search a specific custom search index and the web search index. Any custom content identifier data entered into custom content identifier field may be associated with one or more custom search indexes. For example a single given custom content identifier may be associated with and allow access to several different custom search indexes. In another implementation a given custom content log in and custom content password may be implicitly associated with one or more custom search indexes. In this implementation the user does not have to explicitly identify the custom content that he desires to access since the user s log in and password have already been associated with one or more custom search indexes. In other implementations the user may enter multiple different custom content identifiers to select multiple custom search indexes to search. In some implementations in which the custom content does not require authentication e.g. is available to non subscribers mere selection of specific custom content without user authentication may only be required for access to the specific custom content. graphically illustrates a request for access being sent from client to content searching system to request access to custom content previously provided by for example custom content server to content searching system .

The requesting user may then be authenticated optional block . Authentication unit may authenticate the user using previously received access control data. For example authentication unit may authenticate the user using the log in identifier and password supplied by the user. If authentication unit authenticates the user then the exemplary process may continue with block . If authentication unit does not authenticate the user then the user may be denied access to the requested custom content. Authentication of the user may occur at the time at which the user requests access to specific custom content or the authentication may have occurred earlier. For example a user may log in at the time the user first accesses search document prior to the user requesting access to specific custom content. For some of the specific custom content associated with a respective custom search index es user authentication may not be required and thus block may be skipped. graphically illustrates a user authentication process occurring between client and content searching system .

A search query may be received from the user block . Custom search engine may receive a search query from a user at a client via network . For example as shown in a user may enter search terms of a search query into a search document displayed by the user s browser. One or more custom search indexes associated with the specific custom content that the user requested access to e.g. corresponding to the custom content identifier s supplied by the user may be searched based on the received search query block . Custom search engine may search one or more custom search indexes through N associated with the specific custom content to which the user requested access to obtain custom search results . graphically illustrates the communication of a search query from client to content searching system .

Results of the search of the custom search index es may be encrypted block . Encryption unit may use any existing encryption technique such as symmetric or asymmetric encryption to encrypt the search results. The encryption technique may include for example use of a public key private key encryption process. The encrypted custom content search results may be provided to the user block . Data delivery engine may format the encrypted search results and provide the encrypted search results to a client associated with the authenticated user via network . graphically illustrates the communication of encrypted custom search results from content searching system to client . A content request may be received block . For example as graphically illustrated in content searching system may receive a content request from client . Encrypted custom content that corresponds to the content request may be sent to the requesting user block . For example as graphically illustrated in content searching system may send encrypted custom content to client .

Web search index may also be searched based on the search query optional block . Web search engine may search web search index based on the search query to return web search results . The results of the search of web search index may be provided to the user optional block . Result formatter may combine the formatted custom search results received from data delivery engine together with web search results and provide the combined results to a client associated with the authenticated user via network . For example as shown in custom search results may be provided to the authenticated user via a search result document along with web search results . As depicted in custom search results once decrypted may be displayed prominently e.g. at the top of the search results or highlighted with respect to web search results .

The exemplary process may begin with the receipt of a request from a user requesting access to specific custom content block . For example the access request may include a log in identifier and password supplied by the user as described above with respect to . graphically illustrates a request for access being sent from client to content searching system to request access to custom content metadata previously provided by for example custom content server to content searching system along with encrypted custom content.

The requesting user may be authenticated optional block . Authentication unit may authenticate the user using previously received access control data as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates a user authentication process occurring between client and content searching system .

A search query may be received from the user block . Custom search engine may receive a search query from a user at a client via network as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates the communication of a search query from client to content searching system .

A custom search index es associated with the requested specific custom content may be searched based on the received search query block . For example custom search engine may search one or more custom search indexes through N associated with the specific custom content to which the user requested access where the searched custom search indexes include indexed metadata that corresponds to custom content stored at custom content server .

Metadata custom search results may be provided to the user block . The metadata custom search results may identify portions of custom content metadata previously provided to content searching system for indexing. graphically illustrates the communication of metadata custom search results from content searching system to client .

A content request may be received from the user block . As shown in a user at client may based on the received metadata custom search results send a content request to content searching system requesting specific custom content. Encrypted custom content may be sent to the user that corresponds to the content request block . As shown in content searching system may send encrypted custom content to client . As additionally shown in client may send a key request to custom content server to request a key that may be used to decrypt encrypted custom content . Custom content server may send a symmetric decryption key to client in response to the request.

The exemplary process may begin with the receipt of a request from a user requesting access to specific custom content block . For example the access request may include a log in identifier and password supplied by the user as described above with respect to . graphically illustrates a request for access being sent from client to content searching system to request access to custom content metadata previously provided by for example custom content server to content searching system .

The requesting user may be authenticated optional block . Authentication unit may authenticate the user using previously received access control data as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates a user authentication process occurring between client and content searching system .

A search query may be received from the user block . Custom search engine may receive a search query from a user at a client via network as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates the communication of a search query from client to content searching system .

A custom search index es associated with the requested specific custom content may be searched based on the received search query block . For example custom search engine may search one or more custom search indexes through N associated with the specific custom content to which the user requested access where the searched custom search indexes include indexed metadata that corresponds to custom content stored at custom content server .

Metadata custom search results may be provided to the user including a link s to custom content server s that hosts the corresponding custom content and a symmetric decryption key block . The metadata custom search results may identify portions of custom content metadata previously provided to content searching system for indexing. graphically illustrates the communication of metadata custom search results a link to custom content server and a decryption key from content searching system to client .

The link s provided by content searching system may subsequently be used by client to request custom content which corresponds to results of the metadata custom search results selected by a user of client stored at custom content server . As further illustrated in client may send a custom content request to custom content server to request access to specific custom content. Custom content server may send encrypted custom content that corresponds to the requested content to client . Client may decrypt encrypted custom content using the symmetric decryption key previously received from content searching system .

The exemplary process may begin with the receipt of a request from a user requesting access to specific custom content block . For example the access request may include a log in identifier and password supplied by the user as described above with respect to . graphically illustrates a request for access being sent from client to content searching system to request access to custom content metadata previously provided by for example custom content server to content searching system .

The requesting user may be authenticated optional block . Authentication unit may authenticate the user using previously received access control data as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates a user authentication process occurring between client and content searching system .

A search query may be received from the user block . Content searching system may receive a search query from a user at client via network as previously described with respect to block of . graphically illustrates the communication of a search query to content searching system .

A custom search index es associated with the requested specific custom content may be searched based on the received search query block . The custom search index es may include metadata that describes custom content stored at custom content server . Custom search engine may search one or more custom search indexes through N associated with the specific custom content to which the user requested access where the searched custom search indexes include indexed metadata that corresponds to encrypted custom content stored at content searching system . Metadata custom search results and a link to custom content server may be provided to the user block . The metadata custom search results may be returned as results of the search of the custom search index es . The metadata custom search results may identify respective portions of metadata previously provided to content searching system for indexing. graphically illustrates the communication of metadata custom search results from content searching system to client . As further shown in client and custom content server may subsequently engage in a key exchange such that client may obtain the decryption key that can be used to decrypt encrypted custom content. Key exchange may include client sending its public key to custom content server and custom content server sending its public key to client . Key exchange may also include an identification of custom content that the user at client desires to access. Custom content server may encrypt the requested custom content using its private key and client s public key. Custom content server may then send encrypted custom content to client . Client may decrypt encrypted custom content using client s private key and custom content server s public key.

Implementations described herein provide illustration and description but are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above description or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to A B and the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that aspects described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects have been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

