---

title: Alteration of tobacco alkaloid content through modification of specific cytochrome P450 genes
abstract: Compositions and methods for reducing the level of nornicotine and N′-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) in plants and plant parts thereof are provided. The compositions comprise isolated polynucleotides and polypeptides for cytochrome P450s that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in these plants. Expression cassettes, vectors, plants, and plant parts thereof comprising inhibitory sequences that target expression or function of the disclosed cytochrome P450 polypeptides are also provided. Methods for the use of these novel sequences to inhibit expression or function of cytochrome P450 polypeptides involved in this metabolic conversion are also provided. The methods find use in the production of tobacco products that have reduced levels of nornicotine and its carcinogenic metabolite, NNN, and thus reduced carcinogenic potential for individuals consuming these tobacco products or exposed to secondary smoke derived from these products.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08124851&OS=08124851&RS=08124851
owner: University of Kentucky Research Foundation
number: 08124851
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 987 243 filed Nov. 12 2007 the content of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

An official copy of the Sequence Listing is submitted electronically via EFS Web as an ASCII formatted Sequence Listing with a file named 362493SequenceListing.txt created on Nov. 11 2008 and having a size of 137 kb and is filed concurrently with the specification. The Sequence Listing contained in this ASCII formatted document is part of the specification and is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for reducing the level of nornicotine and its metabolite N nitrosonornicotine NNN in a plant that is a member of the genus particularly compositions and methods for inhibiting expression or function of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine.

A predominant alkaloid found in commercial tobacco varieties is nicotine typically accounting for 90 95 of the total alkaloid pool. The remaining alkaloid fraction is primarily three additional pyridine alkaloids nornicotine anabasine and anatabine. Nornicotine is generated directly from nicotine by nicotine N demethylase. Nornicotine usually represents less than 5 of the total pyridine alkaloid pool. However tobacco plants that initially produce very low amounts of nornicotine can give rise to progeny that metabolically convert a large percentage of leaf nicotine to nornicotine. This process is termed conversion. In tobacco plants that have genetically converted i.e. converters the great majority of nornicotine production occurs during senescence and curing of a mature leaf Wernsman Matzinger 1968 12 226 228 . Burley tobaccos are particularly prone to genetic conversion with rates as high as 20 per generation observed in some cultivars.

During curing and processing of the tobacco leaf a portion of the nornicotine is metabolized to NNN a tobacco specific nitrosamine TSNA alleged to be carcinogenic in laboratory animals Hecht Hoffmann 1990 8 273 294 and Hoffmann et al. 1994 41 1 52 Hecht 1998 11 559 603 . In flue cured tobaccos TSNAs predominantly form through a reaction of alkaloids with minute amounts of nitrogen oxides present in combustion gases in a direct fired heating systems used in traditional curing barns Peele Gentry 1999 Formation of tobacco specific nitrosamines in flue cured tobacco CORESTA Meeting Agro Phyto Groups Suzhou China . The combustion gases however can be eliminated when curing barns are retrofitted with heat exchangers which eliminate the mixing of combustion gases with curing air thereby reducing TSNAs in tobaccos cured in this manner Boyette Hamm 2001 27 17 22. . In contrast in air cured Burley tobaccos TSNA formation primarily proceeds through a reaction of tobacco alkaloids with nitrite a process catalyzed by leaf borne microbes Bush et al. 2001 27 23 46 . Thus far attempts to reduce TSNAs through modification of curing conditions while maintaining acceptable quality standards have not been successful for air cured tobaccos.

In Burley tobacco plants a positive correlation exists between the nornicotine content of a leaf and an amount of NNN that accumulates in the cured leaf Bush et al. 2001 27 23 46 and Shi et al. 2000 54 Abstract 27 . However keeping nornicotine levels at a minimum is difficult in Burley tobacco plants because of conversion. Plant breeders and seed producers are traditionally responsible for minimizing the number of Burley tobacco plants that accumulate high levels of nornicotine. Though the percentage of converters that are ultimately grown in fields are reduced through roguing converters during propagation of seed stocks. Unfortunately this process is costly time consuming and imperfect.

Once a plant converts the high nornicotine trait is inherited as a single dominant gene Griffith et al. 1955 121 343 344 Burke Jeffrey 1958 2 139 141 and Man et al. 1964 4 349 353 . The nature of this gene however is currently unknown. In the simplest of scenarios the conversion locus may represent a nonfunctional nicotine N demethylase gene that regains its function in converters possibly through the mobilization of a mutation inducting transposable element. Alternatively the converter locus may encode a protein that initiates a cascade of events that ultimately enables converters to metabolize nicotine to nornicotine meaning that multiple genes may be involved.

Regardless of whether there are one or many genes associated with conversion the gene s encoding polypeptides having nicotine demethylase activity play a pivotal role in this process. Although the inability to purify active nicotine N demethylase from crude extracts has impeded the isolation and identification of this enzyme there is some evidence that a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of monooxygenases may be involved Hao Yeoman 1996 41 477 482 Hao Yeoman 1996 42 325 329 Chelvarajan et al. 1993 41 858 862 and Hao Yeoman 1998 152 420 426 . Unfortunately these studies are not conclusive as classic P450 inhibitors such as carbon monoxide and tetcylasis fail to lower enzyme activity at rates comparable to other reported P450 mediated reactions Chelvarajan et al. 1993 41 858 862 .

Furthermore cytochrome P450s are ubiquitous transmembrane proteins that participate in metabolizing a wide range of compounds reviewed by Schuler 1996 15 235 284 and Schuler Werck Reichhart 2003 54 629 667 . Examples of biochemical reactions mediated by cytochrome P450s include hydroxylations demethylations and epoxidations. In plants cytochrome P450 gene families are very large. For example total genome sequence examination revealed 272 predicted cytochrome P450 genes in and at least 455 unique cytochrome P450 genes in rice see e.g. Nelson et al. 2004 135 2 756 772 . Even though cytochrome P450s have been implicated in the conversion of nicotine to nornicotine identification of key participating members of this protein family remains a challenge.

Aside from serving as a precursor for NNN recent studies suggest that the nornicotine found in tobacco products has undesirable health consequences. For example Dickerson Janda demonstrated that nornicotine causes aberrant protein glycosylation within a cell Dickerson Janda 2002 99 15084 15088 . Likewise concentrations of nornicotine modified proteins were much higher in plasma of smokers compared to nonsmokers. Furthermore nornicotine can covalently modify commonly prescribed steroid drugs such as prednisone which can alter both the efficacy and toxicity of these drugs.

In view of the difficulties associated with conversion as well as the undesirable health effects of nornicotine accumulation improved methods for reducing the nornicotine content in tobacco varieties particularly Burley tobacco plants are therefore desirable. Such methods would not only help ameliorate the potential negative health consequences of the nornicotine per se as described above but also help to reduce NNN levels.

Compositions and methods are provided for reducing the nornicotine content in plants that are members of the genus . Compositions include isolated cytochrome P450 polynucleotides and polypeptides that are involved in conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants particularly species. Isolated polynucleotides include those that comprise a nucleic acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide as set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 5 12 14 24 and fragments and variants thereof. Isolated polypeptides of the invention include those that comprise an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 5 12 or 14 24 an amino acid sequence encoded by the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 and fragments and variants thereof.

In a first aspect the present invention is summarized as polynucleotides that can suppress expression of a nicotine demethylase involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant including the nicotine demethylases of the present invention. The present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide having a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of SEQ ID NO 1 obtained from a sequence selected from the group of nucleic acids at position 253 353 647 733 1050 1397 and combinations thereof. The present invention also provides an isolated polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a green leaf nicotine demethylase where the amino acid sequence of the encoded nicotine demethylase has a substitution at an amino acid residue in a position selected from the group consisting of residues 235 449 174 410 224 72 143 and 422 where the numbering is according to SEQ ID NO 2. Also provided is an isolated polynucleotide comprising a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of SEQ ID NO 4. Further provided is an isolated polynucleotide encoding an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 with a mutation of a residue that differs from the other P450 polypeptides to a conserved residue. Alternatively provided is an isolated polynucleotide encoding an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 with a mutation at a position selected from the group consisting of residues 85 118 216 245 and 466 where the residue at 85 is not an isoleucine the residue at 118 is not an asparagine the residue at 216 is not tyrosine the residue at 245 is not a tyrosine and the residue at 466 is not valine.

In a second aspect the present invention is summarized as an expression cassette comprising a polynucleotide encoding an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 operably linked to a promoter that is functional in a plant cell. The present invention provides an expression cassette comprises a polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 or a fragment of at least 25 contiguous nucleic acids thereof operably linked to a promoter that is functional in a plant cell. Also provided is an isolated polynucleotide comprising at least 25 nucleotides of a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3. Further provided is an isolated polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 2 5 12 and 14 24. In one embodiment of the second aspect the isolated polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence 99 identical to SEQ ID NO 2 such that it is capable of converting nicotine to nornicotine in green leaves of tobacco.

In a third aspect the present invention is summarized as a plant of the genus or a plant part thereof comprising an expression cassette the cassette encoding SEQ ID NO 2 a fragment thereof or a complement of either. Also provided is a transgenic plant having a lower level of nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate in green leaves compared to a non transgenic plant the plant comprising an exogenous nucleic acid construct comprising a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of a green leaf tobacco nicotine demethylase sequence encoding an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 and a second nucleic acid sequence capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first sequence. Further provided is a transgenic plant having a lower level of nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate in green leaves compared to a non transgenic plant the plant comprising an exogenous nucleic acid construct comprising a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of a green leaf tobacco nicotine demethylase sequence having the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 and a second nucleic acid sequence capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first sequence is provided. Also provided is a transgenic plant having a lower level of nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate in green leaves compared to a non transgenic plant the plant comprising an exogenous nucleic acid construct comprising a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of a green leaf tobacco nicotine demethylase sequence having a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 and a second nucleic acid sequence capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first sequence.

In a fourth aspect the present invention is summarized as a seed of a transgenic plant having a lower level of nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate in green leaves compared to a non transgenic plant the plant comprising a heterologous promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of a green leaf tobacco nicotine demethylase sequence having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 and a second nucleic acid sequence capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first sequence. Also provided is a tissue culture of regenerable tobacco cells comprising a plant cell that comprises a first polynucleotide having a fragment of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 and a second polynucleotide capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first.

In a fifth aspect the present invention is summarized as a tobacco product comprising a transgenic plant cell having a lower level of nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate in green leaves compared to a non transgenic plant the plant cell comprising a heterologous promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between about 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of a green leaf tobacco nicotine demethylase sequence having a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 and a second polynucleotide capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first. Also provided is a tobacco cell having a genome altered to inhibit the expression of at least a green leaf nicotine demethylase where the cell is homozygous for a mutation in the gene encoding the green leaf nicotine demethylase. Further provided is a tobacco cell comprising a transgene containing green leaf nicotine demethylase nucleic acid sequence that flanks a selectable marker gene where the selectable marker gene disrupts the nicotine demethylase gene thereby producing a tobacco cell where the endogenous green leaf nicotine demethylase gene has been disrupted. Alternatively provided is a tobacco cell comprising a transgene containing green leaf nicotine demethylase nucleic acid sequence that flanks a selectable marker gene where the selectable marker gene disrupts the nicotine demethylase gene thereby producing a tobacco cell where the endogenous green leaf nicotine demethylase gene has been disrupted.

In a sixth aspect the present invention is summarized as a method for reducing nornicotine levels in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus the method comprising a inhibiting expression of a nicotine demethylase where the nicotine demethylase has an amino acid sequence set forth in the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 and 5 12 and b reducing nornicotine levels in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus . Also provided is a method for reducing nornicotine levels in a tobacco product the method comprising a growing a transgenic tobacco plant where the plant having a plant part that comprises an expression cassette comprising a heterologous promoter and a nicotine demethylase where the nicotine demethylase has an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 and 5 12 and b preparing a tobacco product from the tobacco plant part. Further provided is a method for reducing nornicotine levels in a tobacco product the method comprising a growing a transgenic tobacco plant where the plant has a plant part that comprises an antibody that specifically binds a polypeptide with an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 and 5 12 and b preparing a tobacco product from the tobacco plant part. Alternatively provided is a method for reducing nornicotine levels in a tobacco product the method comprising a growing a transgenic tobacco plant where the plant has a plant part that comprises a fragment of a green leaf nicotine demethylase operably linked to a heterologous promoter and the fragment has at least 25 contiguous nucleic acids from a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 and 5 12 and b preparing a tobacco product from the tobacco plant part. Also provided is a method for reducing nornicotine levels in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus the method comprising a modifying the functional CYP82E5v2 allele to change alleles to a nonfunctional CYP82E5v2 where the nonfunctional CYP82E5v2 has a substitution at an amino acid residue in a position selected from the group consisting of residues 235 449 174 410 224 72 143 and 422 where the numbering is according to SEQ ID NO 2 and b reducing the level of nornicotine in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus . The present invention also provides a method for reducing the carcinogenic potential of a tobacco product the method comprising preparing the tobacco product by a growing a transgenic tobacco plant where the plant comprises a plant part that comprises a fragment of a green leaf nicotine demethylase operably linked to a heterologous promoter and the fragment comprises at least 25 contiguous nucleic acids from a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 and 5 12 and b preparing a tobacco product from the tobacco plant part. Further the present invention provides a method of reducing the conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant comprising a transforming a plant with an nucleic acid construct comprising a promoter capable of functioning in a plant cell operably linked to a polynucleotide having a first nucleic acid sequence comprising a region of between 100 nucleic acids and about 350 nucleic acids of SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 and a second nucleic acid sequence capable of forming a double stranded RNA with the first sequence and b regenerating a transgenic plant.

In a seventh aspect the present invention is summarized as a method of screening for a green leaf nicotine demethylase sequence comprising a obtaining a nucleic acid sequence that has at least 200 nucleic acids of sequence identity with SEQ ID NO 1 and b identifying a codon sequence encoding for a stop codon at position 422 of an encoded polypeptide where the numbering is according to SEQ ID NO 2. Also provided is a method of screening for green leaf nicotine demethylase sequence comprising a obtaining a nucleic acid sequence that has at least 200 nucleic acids of sequence identity with SEQ ID NO 1 and b identifying a codon sequence encoding for a codon that is not a proline at position 449 of an encoded polypeptide where the numbering is according to SEQ ID NO 2. Further provided is a method for identifying a tobacco plant with low levels of nornicotine the method comprising a obtaining a DNA sample from a tobacco plant of interest and b screening the sample for a mutation in SEQ ID NO 1. The present invention also provides a method for reducing the level of nornicotine in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus the method comprising a inhibiting expression of a CYP82E4v2 nicotine demethylase and CYP82E5v2 nicotine demethylase and b reducing the level of nornicotine in a plant part derived from a plant of the genus . Also included is tobacco plant material comprising a polypeptide with an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 13 having a mutation at a position selected from the group consisting of residues 458 364 329 and combinations thereof. Further included is tobacco plant material comprising a CYP82E4v2 having a mutation at a position selected from the group consisting of residues 458 364 329 and combinations thereof where the numbering corresponds to SEQ ID NO 13. Also included is tobacco plant material comprising a CYP82E4v2 having a mutation at residue 376 where the residue is not valine and the numbering of residues corresponds to SEQ ID NO 13.

SEQ ID NO 50 sets forth a nucleic acid sequence of a coding region of CYP82E4v2 and the encoded protein i.e. SEQ ID NO 13 .

The present invention includes compositions and methods for inhibiting expression or function of nicotine demethylase polypeptides that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant particularly plants of the genus including tobacco plants of various commercial varieties.

As used herein inhibit inhibition and inhibiting are defined as any method known in the art or described herein which decreases the expression or function of a gene product of interest i.e. the target gene product .

 Inhibiting can be in the context of a comparison between two plants for example a genetically altered plant versus a wild type plant. The comparison can be between plants one of which lacks a DNA sequence capable of reducing the agent. Inhibition of expression or function of a target gene product also can be in the context of a comparison between plant cells organelles organs tissues or plant parts within the same plant or between different plants and includes comparisons between developmental or temporal stages within the same plant or plant part or between plants or plant parts.

 Inhibiting can include any relative decrement of function or production of a gene product of interest up to and including complete elimination of function or production of that gene product. When levels of an agent are compared such a comparison is preferably carried out between organisms with a similar genetic background. Preferably a similar genetic background is a background where the organisms being compared share 50 or greater more preferably 75 or greater and even more preferably 90 or greater sequence identity of nuclear genetic material. A similar genetic background is a background where the organisms being compared are plants and the plants are isogenic except for any genetic material originally introduced using plant transformation techniques or a mutation generated by human intervention. Measurement of the level or amount of an agent may be carried out by any suitable method non limiting examples of which include but are not limited to comparison of mRNA transcript levels protein or peptide levels and or phenotype especially the conversion of nicotine to nornicotine. As used herein mRNA transcripts can include processed and non processed mRNA transcripts and polypeptides or peptides can include polypeptides or peptides with or without any post translational modification.

As used herein host cell means a cell that comprises a heterologous nucleic acid sequence of the invention. Though the nucleic acid sequences of the invention and fragments and variants thereof can be introduced into any cell of interest of particular interest are plant cells more particularly cells of a plant species for example the tobacco plant species and varieties described herein below.

As used herein variant means a substantially similar sequence. A variant can have different function or a substantially similar function as a wild type polypeptide of interest. For a nicotine demethylase a substantially similar function is at least 99 98 97 95 90 85 80 75 60 50 25 or 15 of wild type enzyme function of converting nicotine to nornicotine under the same conditions or in a near isogenic line. A wild type CYP82E5v2 is SEQ ID NO 2. A wild type CYP82E4v2 is SEQ ID NO 13. As used herein a variant polynucleotide or variant polypeptide means a nucleic acid or amino acid sequence that is not wild type.

A variant can have one addition deletion or substitution two or less additions deletions or substitutions three or less additions deletions or substitutions four or less additions deletions or substitutions or five or less additions deletions or substitutions. A mutation includes additions deletions and substitutions. Such deletions or additions can be at the C terminus N terminus or both the C and N termini. Fusion polypeptides or epitope tagged polypeptides are also included in the present invention. Silent nucleotide mutations do not change the encoded amino acid at a given position. Amino acid substitutions can be conservative. A conservative substitution is a change in the amino acid where the change is to an amino acid within the same family of amino acids as the original amino acid. The family is defined by the side chain of the individual amino acids. A family of amino acids can have basic acidic uncharged polar or nonpolar side chains. See Alberts et al. 1994 3rd ed. pages 56 57 Garland Publishing Inc. New York N.Y. incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. A deletion substitution or addition can be to the amino acid of another CYP82E family member in that same position. See . As used herein a fragment means a portion of a polynucleotide or a portion of a polypeptide and hence protein encoded thereby.

As used herein plant part means plant cells plant protoplasts plant cell tissue cultures from which a whole plant can be regenerated plant calli plant clumps and plant cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants such as embryos pollen anthers ovules seeds leaves flowers stems branches fruit roots root tips and the like. Progeny variants and mutants of regenerated plants are also included within the scope of the present invention provided that they comprise the introduced polynucleotides of the invention. As used herein tobacco plant material means any portion of a plant part or any combination of plant parts.

As used herein operably linked means a functional linkage between two or more elements. For example an operable linkage between a polynucleotide of interest and a regulatory sequence i.e. a promoter is a functional link that allows for expression of the polynucleotide of interest. Operably linked elements may be contiguous or non contiguous. When used to refer to the fusing of two protein coding regions by operably linked is intended that the coding regions are in the same reading frame.

As used herein heterologous means a sequence that originates from a foreign species or if from the same species is substantially modified from its native form in composition and or genomic locus by deliberate human intervention. For example a promoter operably linked to a heterologous polynucleotide is from a species different from the species from which the polynucleotide was derived or if from the same analogous species one or both are substantially modified from their original form and or genomic locus or the promoter is not the native promoter for the operably linked polynucleotide. Furthermore as used herein chimeric gene means a coding sequence operably linked to a transcription initiation region that is heterologous to the coding sequence.

Compositions of the present invention include cytochrome P450 polypeptides. Cytochrome P450 polypeptides can have nicotine demethylase activity. Such nicotine demethylase polynucleotides and polypeptides are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants including commercial varieties of tobacco plants. Also included are variants of such nicotine demethylases. In particular compositions of the invention include isolated polypeptides comprising amino acid sequences as shown in SEQ ID NOS 2 and 5 24 isolated polynucleotides comprising the nucleic acid sequences as shown in SEQ ID NOS 1 3 and 4 and the isolated polynucleotides encoding polypeptides comprising amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS 2 and 5 24. The polynucleotides of the present invention can find use in inhibiting expression of nicotine demethylase polypeptides or variants thereof that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants particularly tobacco plants. Some of the polynucleotides of the invention have mutations that inhibit nicotine demethylase activity of the wild type nicotine demethylase. The inhibition of polypeptides of the present invention is effective in lowering nornicotine levels in tobacco lines where genetic conversion occurs in less than 30 50 70 and 90 of the population such as flue cured tobaccos. The inhibition of polypeptides of the present invention is effective in lowering nornicotine levels in tobacco populations where genetic conversion occurs in at least 90 80 70 60 and 50 of a plant population. A population preferably contains greater than about 25 50 100 500 1 000 5 000 or 25 000 plants where more preferably at least about 10 25 50 75 95 or 100 of the plants comprise a polypeptide of the present invention.

The present invention further provides expression cassettes comprising all or a portion of the polynucleotides having a nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 and the isolated polynucleotides encoding polypeptides having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOS 2 and 5 24 a complement or fragment thereof or a sequence having substantial sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 or the polynucleotides encoding polypeptides having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NOS 2 and 5 24 or a complement or fragment thereof operably linked to a heterologous promoter that is functional in a plant cell for use in expressing an inhibitory RNA transcript that interferes with expression i.e. transcription and or translation of nicotine demethylase polypeptides. In some embodiments the expression cassettes comprise the nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 a complement or fragment thereof or a sequence having substantial sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 or a complement or fragment thereof. Introduction of these expression cassettes into a plant of interest particularly a tobacco plant of varieties commonly known as flue or bright varieties Burley varieties dark varieties and oriental Turkish varieties results in the production of tobacco plants having reduced amounts of nornicotine and NNN. Leaf and stem material from these transgenic plants can be used to produce a variety of tobacco products having reduced levels of nornicotine and a concomitant reduction NNN.

The nicotine demethylase polynucleotides and encoded polypeptides of the present invention include a novel cytochrome P450 gene designated the CYP82E5v2 nicotine demethylase gene that is newly identified as having a role in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in tobacco plants. Suppression of the expression of the encoded polypeptide in transgenic tobacco plants results in a significant reduction in the accumulation of nornicotine in the green leaves of these transgenic plants. While not being bound by theory the metabolic role of these polypeptides may be a direct one i.e. directly catalyzing the N demethylation reaction or an indirect one i.e. in the form of production of a product that leads to the up regulation of the nicotine demethylase activity of the leaf. Regardless of the mechanism any means by which expression and or function of the polypeptides of the present invention are targeted for inhibition or site directed mutagenesis within a plant will be effective in reducing nornicotine levels and levels of NNN within leaves and stems of these plants.

The invention encompasses isolated or substantially purified polynucleotide or polypeptide compositions of the present invention. An isolated or purified polynucleotide or polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany or interact with the polynucleotide or protein as found in its naturally occurring environment. Thus an isolated or purified polynucleotide or polypeptide is substantially free of other cellular material or culture medium when produced by recombinant techniques or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Optimally an isolated polynucleotide is free of sequences optimally protein encoding sequences 110 that naturally flank the polynucleotide i.e. sequences located at the 5 and 3 ends of the polynucleotide in the genomic DNA of the organism from which the polynucleotide is derived. For example in various embodiments the isolated polynucleotide can contain less than about 5 kb 4 kb 3 kb 2 kb 1 kb 0.5 kb or 0.1 kb of nucleotide sequence that naturally flank the polynucleotide in genomic DNA of the cell from which the polynucleotide is derived. A polypeptide that is substantially free of cellular material includes preparations having less than about 30 20 10 5 or 1 by dry weight of contaminating protein. When the polypeptide of the invention or biologically active portion thereof is recombinantly produced optimally culture medium represents less than about 30 20 10 5 or 1 by dry weight of chemical precursors or non protein of interest chemicals.

Fragments of the disclosed polynucleotides and polypeptides encoded thereby are also encompassed by the present invention. Fragments of a polynucleotide may encode polypeptide fragments that retain the biological activity of the native polypeptide and hence are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant. Alternatively fragments of a polynucleotide that are useful as hybridization probes or PCR primers using methods described below generally do not encode fragment polypeptides retaining biological activity. Furthermore fragments of the disclosed polynucleotides include those that can be assembled within recombinant constructs for use in gene silencing with any method known in the art including but not limited to sense suppression cosuppression antisense suppression double stranded RNA dsRNA interference hairpin RNA interference and intron containing hairpin RNA interference amplicon mediated interference ribozymes and small interfering RNA or micro RNA as described in the art and herein below. Thus fragments of a polynucleotide may range from at least about 20 nucleotides about 50 nucleotides about 70 nucleotides about 100 nucleotides about 150 nucleotides about 200 nucleotides 250 nucleotides 300 nucleotides and up to the full length polynucleotide encoding the polypeptides of the invention depending upon the desired outcome. For example the fragments of a polynucleotide can be between 100 and about 350 nucleotides between 100 and about 325 nucleotides between 100 and about 300 nucleotides between about 125 and about 300 nucleotides between about 125 and about 275 nucleotides in length between about 200 to about 320 contiguous nucleotides between about 200 and about 420 contiguous nucleotides in length between about 250 and about 450 contiguous nucleotides in length. Alternatively the fragment can be between about 300 and about 450 contiguous nucleotides in length.

A fragment of a nicotine demethylase polynucleotide of the present invention that encodes a biologically active portion of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention will encode at least 15 25 30 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 contiguous amino acids or up to the total number of amino acids present in a full length nicotine demethylase polypeptide of the invention e.g. 517 amino acids for SEQ ID NOS 2 and 5 or will encode at least 15 25 30 50 75 100 125 150 or up to the total number of amino acids present in a partial length cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the invention e.g. 422 for SEQ ID NO 12 . Preferably the fragment comprises up to amino acid residue 330 of the encoded polypeptide. A biologically active portion of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide can be prepared by isolating a portion of one of the cytochrome P450 polynucleotides of the present invention expressing the encoded portion of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide e.g. by recombinant expression in vitro and assessing the activity of the encoded portion of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide i.e. the ability to promote conversion of nicotine to nornicotine using assays known in the art and those provided herein below.

Polynucleotides that are fragments of a cytochrome P450 nucleotide sequence of the present invention comprise at least 16 20 50 75 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 800 900 950 1000 1050 1100 1150 1200 1250 1300 1350 1400 1450 1500 1550 1600 1650 or 1700 contiguous nucleic acids or up to the number of nucleotides present in a full length cytochrome P450 polynucleotide as disclosed herein e.g. 1554 for SEQ ID NO 1 or 2608 for SEQ ID NO 4 . Polynucleotides that are fragments of a cytochrome P450 nucleotide sequence of the present invention comprise fragments from about 20 to about 1700 contiguous nucleic acids from about 50 to about 1600 contiguous nucleic acids from about 75 to about 1500 contiguous nucleic acids from about 100 to about 1400 nucleic acids from about 150 to about 1300 contiguous nucleic acids from about 150 to about 1200 contiguous nucleic acids from about 175 to about 1100 contiguous nucleic acids from about 200 to about 1000 contiguous nucleic acids from about 225 to about 900 contiguous nucleic acids from about 500 to about 1600 contiguous nucleic acids from about 775 to about 1700 contiguous nucleic acids from about 1000 to about 1700 contiguous nucleic acids or from about 300 to about 800 contiguous nucleic acids from a cytochrome P450 polynucleotide as disclosed herein. For example polynucleotide fragment can comprise a polynucleotide sequence containing the nucleic acid sequence from the polynucleotide at about position 700 to about position 1250 of a cytochrome P450 coding sequence at about position 700 to about position 1250 of a cytochrome P450 genomic sequence at about position 10 to about position 900 of a cytochrome P450 intron sequence or at about position 100 to about position 800 of a cytochrome P450 intron sequence.

Variants of the disclosed polynucleotides and polypeptides encoded thereby are also encompassed by the present invention. Naturally occurring variants include those variants that share substantial sequence identity to the disclosed cytochrome P450 polynucleotides and polypeptides disclosed herein. Naturally occurring variants can share substantial functional identity to the disclosed cytochrome P450 polynucleotides disclosed herein. The compositions and methods of the invention can be used to target expression or function of any naturally occurring cytochrome P450 that shares substantial sequence identity to the disclosed cytochrome P450 polypeptides. Such cytochrome P450 can possess the relevant cytochrome P450 activity i.e. involvement in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants or not. Such variants may result from e.g. genetic polymorphism or from human manipulation as occurs with breeding and selection. Biologically active variants of a cytochrome P450 protein of the invention such as variants of the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 and 5 24 will have at least about 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or more sequence identity to the amino acid sequence for the wild type protein as determined by sequence alignment programs and parameters described elsewhere herein and can be characterized by a functional involvement in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants or lack thereof. A biologically active variant of a polypeptide of the invention may differ by as few as 1 15 amino acid residues as few as 10 as few as 9 as few as 8 as few as 7 as few as 6 as few as 5 as few as 4 as few as 3 as few as 2 or as few as 1 amino acid residue from the wild type polypeptide. A biologically inactive variant of a protein of the invention may differ from that polypeptide by as few as 1 15 amino acid residues as few as 10 as few as 9 as few as 8 as few as 7 as few as 6 as few as 5 as few as 4 as few as 3 as few as 2 or as few as 1 amino acid residue.

Variants of the polynucleotides of the present invention include those naturally occurring polynucleotides that encode a nicotine demethylase polypeptide that is involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants. Such polynucleotide variants can comprise a deletion and or addition of one or more nucleotides at one or more sites within the native polynucleotide disclosed herein and or a substitution of one or more nucleotides at one or more sites in the native polynucleotide. Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code conservative variants for polynucleotides include those sequences that encode the amino acid sequence of one of the cytochrome P450 polypeptides of the invention. Naturally occurring variants such as these can be identified with the use of well known molecular biology techniques as e.g. with polymerase chain reaction PCR and hybridization techniques as are known in the art and disclosed herein. Variant polynucleotides also include synthetically derived polynucleotides such as those generated e.g. by using site directed mutagenesis but which still share substantial sequence identity to the naturally occurring sequences disclosed herein and thus can be used in the methods of the invention to inhibit the expression or function of a nicotine demethylase that is involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine including the nicotine demethylase polypeptides set forth in SEQ ID NOS 2 5 7 11 13 16 21 and 23 24. Generally variants of a particular polynucleotide of the invention e.g. the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 or the polynucleotide sequence encoding the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 and 5 24 will have at least about 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or more sequence identity to that particular polynucleotide as determined by sequence alignment programs and parameters described elsewhere herein.

Variants of a particular polynucleotide of the present invention also referred to as the reference polynucleotide can also be evaluated by comparison of the percent sequence identity between the polypeptide encoded by the reference polynucleotide and the polypeptide encoded by a variant polynucleotide. Percent sequence identity between any two polypeptides can be calculated using sequence alignment programs and parameters described elsewhere herein. Where any given pair of polynucleotides of the invention is evaluated by comparison of the percent sequence identity shared by the two polypeptides they encode the percent sequence identity between the two encoded polypeptides is at least about 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or more sequence identity. A variant polypeptide of the present invention can include a polypeptide having a serine at position 458 an asparagine at position 364 of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide a stop codon at position 329 of the cytochrome P450 or any combination thereof where the numbering corresponds to SEQ ID NO 13.

Furthermore the polynucleotides of the invention can be used to isolate corresponding cytochrome P450 sequences from other organisms particularly other plants more particularly other members of the genus. PCR hybridization and other like methods can be used to identify such sequences based on their sequence homology to the sequences set forth herein. Sequences isolated based on their sequence identity to the nucleotide sequences set forth herein or to variants and fragments thereof are encompassed by the present invention. Such sequences include sequences that are orthologs of the disclosed sequences.

As used herein orthologs means genes derived from a common ancestral gene that are found in different species as a result of speciation. Genes found in different species are considered orthologs when their nucleotide sequences and or their encoded protein sequences share at least 60 70 75 80 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or greater sequence identity. Functions of orthologs are often highly conserved among species. Thus isolated polynucleotides that encode for a nicotine demethylase polypeptide that is involved in the nicotine to nornicotine metabolic conversion and which hybridize under stringent conditions to the cytochrome P450 sequences disclosed herein or to variants or fragments thereof are encompassed by the present invention. Such sequences can be used in the methods of the present invention to inhibit expression of nicotine demethylase polypeptides that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in plants.

Using PCR oligonucleotide primers can be designed for use in PCR reactions to amplify corresponding DNA sequences from cDNA or genomic DNA extracted from any plant of interest. Methods for designing PCR primers and PCR cloning are generally known in the art and are disclosed in Sambrook et al. 1989 2d ed Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Plainview N.Y. . Innis et al. eds. 1990 Academic Press New York Innis Gelfand eds. 1995 Academic Press New York and Innis Gelfand eds. 1999 Academic Press New York . Known methods of PCR include but are not limited to methods using paired primers nested primers single specific primers degenerate primers gene specific primers vector specific primers partially mismatched primers and the like.

Hybridization techniques involve the use of all or part of a known polynucleotide as a probe that selectively hybridizes to other corresponding polynucleotides present in a population of cloned genomic DNA fragments or cDNA fragments i.e. genomic or cDNA libraries from a chosen organism.

Hybridization may be carried out under stringent conditions. As used herein stringent conditions or stringent hybridization conditions means conditions under which a probe will hybridize to its target sequence to a detectably greater degree than to other sequences e.g. at least two fold over background . Stringent conditions are sequence dependent and will be different in different circumstances. By controlling the stringency of the hybridization and or washing conditions target sequences that are 100 complementary to the probe can be identified homologous probing . Alternatively stringency conditions can be adjusted to allow some mismatching in sequences so that lower degrees of similarity are detected heterologous probing . Generally a probe is less than about 1000 nucleic acids in length optimally less than 500 nucleic acids in length.

Typically stringent conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is less than about 1.5 M Na ion typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M Na ion concentration or other salts at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the temperature is at least about 30 C. Stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide. Exemplary low stringency conditions include hybridization with a buffer solution of 30 to 35 formamide 1 M NaCl 1 SDS sodium dodecyl sulphate at 37 C. and a wash in 1 to 2 SSC 20 SSC 3.0 M NaCl 0.3 M trisodium citrate at 50 to 55 C. Exemplary moderate stringency conditions include hybridization in 40 to 45 formamide 1.0 M NaCl 1 SDS at 37 C. and a wash in 0.5 to 1 SSC at 55 to 60 C. Exemplary high stringency conditions include hybridization in 50 formamide 1 M NaCl 1 SDS at 37 C. and a wash in 0.1 SSC at 60 to 65 C. Optionally wash buffers may comprise about 0.1 to about 1 SDS. Duration of hybridization is generally less than about 24 hours usually about 4 to about 12 hours. The duration of the wash time will be at least a length of time sufficient to reach equilibrium.

Preferably stringency conditions include hybridization in a solution containing 5 SSC 0.5 SDS 5 Denhardt s 0.45 ug ul poly A RNA 0.45 ug ul calf thymus DNA and 50 formamide at 42 C. and at least one post hybridization wash in a solution comprising from about 0.01 SSC to about 1 SSC. The duration of hybridization is from about 14 to about 16 hours.

Specificity is typically the function of post hybridization washes the critical factors being the ionic strength and temperature of the final wash solution. For DNA DNA hybrids the Tcan be approximated from the equation of Meinkoth Wahl 1984 138 267 284 T 81.5 C. 16.6 log M 0.41 GC 0.61 form 500 L where M is the molarity of monovalent cations GC is the percentage of guanosine and cytosine nucleotides in the DNA form is the percentage of formamide in the hybridization solution and L is the length of the hybrid in base pairs. The Tis the temperature under defined ionic strength and pH at which 50 of a complementary target sequence hybridizes to a perfectly matched probe. Tis reduced by about 1 C. for each 1 of mismatching thus T hybridization and or wash conditions can be adjusted to hybridize to sequences of the desired identity. For example if sequences with 90 identity are sought the Tcan be decreased 10 C. Generally stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 C. lower than the thermal melting point T for the specific sequence and its complement at a defined ionic strength and pH. However severely stringent conditions can utilize a hybridization and or wash at 1 2 3 or 4 C. lower than the thermal melting point T moderately stringent conditions can utilize a hybridization and or wash at 6 7 8 9 or 10 C. lower than the thermal melting point T low stringency conditions can utilize a hybridization and or wash at 11 12 13 14 15 or 20 C. lower than the thermal melting point T . Using the equation hybridization and wash compositions and desired T those of ordinary skill will understand that variations in the stringency of hybridization and or wash solutions are inherently described. If the desired degree of mismatching results in a T of less than 45 C. aqueous solution or 32 C. formamide solution it is optimal to increase the SSC concentration so that a higher temperature can be used. An extensive guide to the hybridization of nucleic acids is found in Tijssen 1993 Part I Chapter 2 Elsevier N.Y. and Ausubel et al. eds. 1995 Chapter 2 Greene Publishing and Wiley Interscience New York . See also Sambrook et al. 1989 2d ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Plainview N.Y. .

Hybridization probes may be genomic DNA fragments cDNA fragments RNA fragments or other oligonucleotides and may be labeled with a detectable group such as P or any other delectable marker. For example probes for hybridization can be made by labeling synthetic oligonucleotides based on the cytochrome P450 polynucleotides sequences of the present invention. Methods for preparation of probes for hybridization and for construction of cDNA and genomic libraries are generally known in the art and are disclosed in Sambrook et al. supra.

For example the cytochrome P430 polynucleotides disclosed herein or one or more portions thereof may be used as probes capable of specifically hybridizing to corresponding cytochrome P450 polynucleotides and messenger RNAs. To achieve specific hybridization under a variety of conditions such probes include sequences that are unique among cytochrome P450 polynucleotide sequences or unique to one of the cytochrome P450 polynucleotide sequences including upstream regions 5 to the coding sequence and downstream regions 3 to the coding sequence and an intron region and are optimally at least about 10 contiguous nucleotides in length more optimally at least about 20 contiguous nucleic acids in length more optimally at least about 50 contiguous nucleic acids in length more optimally at least about 75 contiguous nucleic acids in length and more optimally at least about 100 contiguous nucleic acids in length. Such probes may be used to amplify corresponding cytochrome P450 polynucleotides. This technique may be used to isolate additional coding sequences or mutations from a desired plant or as a diagnostic assay to determine the presence of coding sequences in a plant. Hybridization techniques include hybridization screening of plated DNA libraries either plaques or colonies see e.g. Sambrook et al. supra.

As used herein with respect to the sequence relationships between two or more polynucleotides or polypeptides the term reference sequence means a defined sequence used as a basis for sequence comparison. A reference sequence may be a subset or the entirety of a specified sequence for example as a segment of a full length cDNA or gene sequence or the complete cDNA or gene sequence.

As used herein comparison window means a contiguous and specified segment of a polynucleotide sequence where the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two polynucleotides. Generally a comparison window is at least 20 contiguous nucleic acids in length and optionally can be 30 40 50 or 100 contiguous nucleic acids or longer. Those of skill in the art understand that to avoid a high similarity to a reference sequence due to inclusion of gaps in the polynucleotide sequence a gap penalty is typically introduced and is subtracted from the number of matches.

Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Thus the determination of percent sequence identity between any two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. Non limiting examples of such mathematical algorithms are the algorithm of Myers Miller 1988 4 11 17 the local alignment algorithm of Smith et al. 1981 2 482 the global alignment algorithm of Needleman Wunsch 1970 48 443 453 the search for local alignment method of Pearson Lipman 1988 85 2444 2448 the algorithm of Karlin Altschul 1990 872264 modified as in Karlin Altschul 1993 90 5873 5877.

The BLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990 215 403 are based on the algorithm of Karlin Altschul 1990 supra. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the BLASTN program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to a nucleotide sequence encoding a protein of the invention. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the BLASTX program score 50. wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to a protein or polypeptide of the invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST in BLAST 2.0 can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 25 3389. Alternatively PSI BLAST in BLAST 2.0 can be used to perform an iterated search that detects distant relationships between molecules. See Altschul et al. 1997 supra. When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST PSI BLAST the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. BLASTN for nucleotide sequences BLASTX for proteins can be used See www.ncbi.nlna.nih.gov . Alignment may also be performed manually by inspection.

The sequence identity similarity values provided herein were calculated using the BLASTX Altschul et al. 1997 supra Clustal W Higgins et al. 1994 22 4673 4680 and GAP University of Wisconsin Genetic Computing Group software package algorithms using default parameters. The present invention also encompasses the use of any equivalent program thereof for the analysis and comparison of nucleic acid and protein sequences. By equivalent program is intended any sequence comparison program that for any two sequences in question generates an alignment having identical nucleotide or amino acid residue matches and an identical percent sequence identity when compared to the corresponding alignment generated by BLASTX. Clustal W or GAP.

For purposes of the foregoing discussion of variant nucleotide and polypeptide sequences encompassed by the present invention sequence identity or identity in the context of two polynucleotides or polypeptide sequences makes reference to the residues in the two sequences that are the same when aligned for maximum correspondence over a specified comparison window. When percentage of sequence identity is used in reference to proteins it is recognized that residue positions which are not identical often differ by conservative amino acid substitutions where amino acid residues are substituted for other amino acid residues with similar chemical properties e.g. charge or hydrophobicity and therefore do not change the functional properties of the molecule. When sequences differ in conservative substitutions the percent sequence identity may be adjusted upwards to correct for the conservative nature of the substitution. Sequences that differ by such conservative substitutions are said to have sequence similarity or similarity. Means for malting this adjustment are well known to those of skill in the art. Typically this involves scoring a conservative substitution as a partial rather than a full mismatch thereby increasing the percentage sequence identity. Thus for example where an identical amino acid is given a score of 1 and a non conservative substitution is given a score of zero a conservative substitution is given a score between zero and 1. The scoring of conservative substitutions is calculated e.g. as implemented in the program PC GENE Intelligenetics Mountain View Calif. .

As used herein percentage of sequence identity means the value determined by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window where the portion of the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps as compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base or amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

Thus cytochrome P450 polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences can be identified using the sequences provided herein. Such methods include obtaining a polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence at least 80 85 90 95 98 or 99 sequence identity with the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 or a complement or fragment thereof or a polypeptide sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 or 5 24. A preferred embodiment includes a polypeptide corresponding to SEQ ID NO 13 that has a serine at position 458 or an asparagine at position 364 of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide or a stop codon at position 329 of the cytochrome P450 or a combination thereof where the numbering corresponds to SEQ ID NO 13.

Compositions of the present invention further include expression cassettes comprising inhibitory sequences capable of inhibiting expression or function of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide involved in the conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant or plant part thereof where the inhibitory sequences are operably linked to a promoter that is functional in a plant cell. In this manner expression cassettes comprising all or part of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 3 or 4 or encoding SEQ ID NO 2 or 5 24 a complement or fragment thereof or sequences sharing substantial sequence identity to such sequences or a complement or fragment thereof operably linked to a promoter that is functional in a plant cell are constructed for use in the gene silencing methods of the present invention described herein below. Such sequences are referred to herein as inhibitory sequences or inhibitory polynucleotide sequences as they are capable of being expressed as an RNA molecule that inhibits expression i.e. transcription and or translation of the target cytochrome P450 polypeptide for example the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 or 5 24 and variants thereof where the variant polypeptides have substantial sequence identity to these disclosed cytochrome P450 polypeptides. Such variants may or may not be involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant. Such sequences also include fragment sequences of the target cytochrome P450 polynucleotide or polypeptide. For example a fragment sequence can include any portion of the cytochrome P450 sequence including coding and non coding sequence e.g. 5 UTR intron and 3 UTR sequences and can include fragments between 100 and about 350 nucleic acids between about 125 and about 300 nucleic acids or between about 125 and about 275 nucleic acids. Preferably a fragment of nicotine demethylase can be between about 20 and about 420 about 30 and about 420 between about 40 and about 320 between about 50 and about 200 between about 50 and about 400 between about 50 and about 420 between about 60 and about 320 about 70 and about 220 between about 100 and about 200 between about 100 and about 320 between about 150 and about 200 between about 150 and about 220 between about 150 and about 400 between about 200 and about 300 or between about 300 and about 400 contiguous nucleic acids. Alternatively a fragment of a cytochrome P450 can be about 100 about 150 about 200 about 220 about 250 about 300 about 320 or about 350 contiguous nucleic acids in length. Alternatively yet a cytochrome P450 fragment can be reduced in length by about 20 about 40 about 60 about 80 about 100 about 120 about 140 about 160 about 180 about 200 about 220 about 240 about 260 about 280 about 290 about 300 about 320 about 340 about 360 about 380 about 400 contiguous nucleic acids compared to the full length. For all of these cytochrome P450 fragments the truncation or deletion can start at the 5 end start at the 3 end or be internal to a cytochrome P450 or a cytochrome P450 intron. For a cytochrome P450 intron fragment the entire sequence of a cytochrome P450 intron can be SEQ ID NO 3.

Furthermore a fragment of a cytochrome P450 polynucleotide or polypeptide can contain contiguous nucleotides from about 1 2 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 of the entire gene. Alternatively stated a fragment of a cytochrome P450 polynucleotide or polypeptide can be between about 5 about 80 between about 10 about 70 between about 10 about 60 between about 10 about 50 between about 25 about 60 between about 25 about 50 between about 40 about 60 between about 40 about 80 between about 50 about 90 of the length of an entire cytochrome P450.

Expression cassettes of the present invention include those that encompass additional domains that modulate the level of expression the developmental timing of expression or tissue type that expression occurs in e.g. AU Patent No. AU A 77751 94 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 466 785 and 5 635 618 . Promoters can be selected based on the desired outcome. The nucleic acids of the present invention can be combined with inducible constitutive pathogen or wound induced environmentally or developmentally regulated cell or tissue preferred promoter or other promoters for expression in plants.

Chemical inducible promoters can be used to inhibit the expression of a cytochrome P450 that is involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant through the application of an exogenous chemical regulator. Chemical inducible promoters are known in the art and include but are not limited to the tobacco PR 1a promoter which is activated by salicylic acid. Other chemical inducible promoters of interest include steroid responsive promoters see e.g. the glucocorticoid inducible promoter Schena et al. 1991 88 10421 10425 and McNellis et al. 1998 14 2 247 257 and tetracycline inducible promoters see e.g. Gatz et al. 1991 227 229 237 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 814 618 and 5 789 156 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Constitutive promoters include e.g. the core promoter of the Rsyn7 promoter and outer constitutive promoters disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 072 050 the core CaMV S promoter Odell et al. 1985 313 810 812 ubiquitin Christensen et al. 1989 12 619 632 and Christensen et al. 1992 18 675 689 pEMU Last et al. 1991 81 581 588 MAS Velten et al. 1984 3 2723 2730 ALS promoter U.S. Pat. No. 5 659 026 and the like. Other constitutive promoters include e.g. those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 608 149 5 608 144 5 604 121 5 569 597 5 466 785 5 399 680 5 268 463 5 608 142 and 6 177 611.

Tissue preferred promoters can be utilized to target expression of an inhibitory polynucleotide sequence of the present invention within a particular plant tissue. Tissue preferred promoters include those disclosed in Yamamoto et al. 1997 12 2 255 265 Kawamata et al. 1997 38 7 792 803 Hansen et al. 1997 254 3 337 343 Russell et al. 1997 6 2 157 168 Rinehart et al. 1996 112 3 1331 1341 Van Camp et al. 1996 112 2 525 535 Canevascini et al. 1996 112 2 513 524 Yamamoto et al. 1994 35 5 773 778 Lam 1994 20 181 196 Orozco et al. 1993 23 6 1129 1138 Matsuoka et al. 1993 90 20 9586 9590 and Guevara Garcia et al. 1993 4 3 495 505.

Of particular interest herein are leaf preferred promoters that provide for expression predominately in leaf tissues. See e.g. Yamamoto et al. 1997 12 2 255 265 Kwon et al. 1994 105 357 67 Yamamoto et al. 1994 35 5 773 778 Gotor et al. 1993 3 509 18 Orozco et al. 1993 23 6 1129 1138 Baszczynski et al. 1988 16 4732 Mitra et al. 1994 26 35 93 Kayaya et al. 1995 248 668 674 and Matsuoka et al. 1993 90 20 9586 9590. Senecence regulated et al. 1998 116 329 335 SAG 13 Gan and Amasino 1997 113 313 319 SAG 15 Gan 1995 Molecular Characterization and Genetic Manipulation of Plant Senescence Ph.D. Thesis University of Wisconsin Madison SEN1 Oh et al. 1996 30 739 754 promoter of a senescence specific gene for expression of IPT Gan and Amasino 91995 270 1986 1988 and the like see e.g. Or et al. 1999 11 1073 1080 and McCabe et al. 2001 127 505 516 .

Expression cassettes of the present invention can include 5 leader sequences that can act to enhance translation. Translation leaders are known in the art and include but are not limited to picornavirus leaders e.g. EMCV leader Encephalomyocarditis 5 noncoding region Elroy Stein et al. 1989 86 6126 6130 potyvirus leaders e.g. TEV leader Tobacco Etch Virus Gallie et al. 1995 165 2 233 238 MDMV leader Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus 154 9 20 and human immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein BiP Macejak et al. 1991 353 90 94 untranslated leader from the coat protein mRNA of alfalfa mosaic virus AMV RNA 4 Jobling et al. 1987 325 622 625 tobacco mosaic virus leader TMV Gallie et al. 1989 in ed. Cech Liss New York pp. 237 256 and maize chlorotic mottle virus leader MCMV Lommel et al. 1991 81 382 385 . See also Della Cioppa et al. 1987 84 965 968. Other methods known to enhance translation also can be utilized.

Methods of reducing the concentration content and or activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention in a plant or plant part particularly the leaf tissue are provided. Many methods may be used alone or in combination to reduce or eliminate the activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention more particularly the CYP82E5v2 nicotine demethylase. In addition combinations of methods may be employed to reduce or eliminate the activity of two or more different cytochrome P450 polypeptides more particularly the CYP82E5v2 and CYP82E4v2 nicotine demethylases. Preferably the CYP82E5v2 is a polypeptide with at least one amino acid mutation in SEQ ID NO 2 that negatively affects conversion in green leaves and the CYP82E4v2 has the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 13 with at least one amino acid mutation that negatively affects conversion in senescent leaves.

In accordance with the present invention the expression of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention is inhibited if the protein level of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide is statistically lower than the protein level of the same cytochrome P450 polypeptide in a plant that has not been genetically modified or mutagenized to inhibit the expression of that cytochrome P450 polypeptide and where these plants have been cultured and harvested using the same protocols. In particular embodiments of the invention the protein level of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide in a modified plant according to the invention is less than 95 less than 90 less than 80 less than 70 less than 60 less than 50 less than 40 less than 30 less than 20 less than 10 or less than 5 of the protein level of the same cytochrome P450 polypeptide in a plant that is not a mutant or that has not been genetically modified to inhibit the expression of that cytochrome P450 polypeptide and which has been cultured and harvested using the same protocols. The expression level of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide may be measured directly for example by assaying for the level of the cytochrome P450 transcript or cytochrome P450 polypeptide expressed in the plant or plant part or indirectly e.g. by measuring the conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in the plant or plant part. Methods for monitoring expression level of a polypeptide are known in the art and include but are not limited to Northern blot analysis and RNA differentiation assays. Methods for determining the activity of a targeted cytochrome P450 polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine are known in the art and described elsewhere herein below and include but are not limited to alkaloid analysis using gas chromatography.

In some instances the activity of one or more cytochrome P450 polypeptides is reduced or eliminated by transforming a plant or plant part with an expression cassette comprising a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide that inhibits the activity of one or more cytochrome P450 polypeptides of the present invention. A number of approaches have been used to combine transgenes or mutations in one plant including sexual crossing retransformation co transformation and the use of linked transgenes. A chimeric transgene with linked partial gene sequences can be used to coordinately suppress numerous plant endogenous genes. Constructs modeled on viral polyproteins can be used to simultaneously introduce multiple coding genes into plant cells. For a review see Halpin et al. 47 295 310 2001 . A plant having a mutation in CYP82E4v2 that inhibits the nicotine demethylase activity in senescent leaves can be crossed with a plant having a mutation in CYP83E5v2 that inhibits nicotine demethylase in green leaves to produce a plant with conversion levels lower than about 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 or 0.7 . Alternatively a plant having one or more mutations in CYP82E4v2 at position 458 364 38 201 169 459 296 427 329 376 or 171 can be crossed with a plant having one or more mutations in CYP83E5v2 at position 235 449 174 410 224 72 or 143 to produce a plant with conversion levels lower than 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 or 0.7 . Alternatively still a plant having one or more mutations in CYP82E4v2 at position 458 364 or 329 can be crossed with a plant having one or more mutations in CYP83E5v2 at position 235 449 174 410 224 72 or 143 to produce a plant with conversion levels lower than 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 or 0.7 . A particularly preferred conversion level of nicotine to nornicotine can be between 0.05 0.4 between 0.1 0.6 between 0.1 0.3 between 0.1 0.5 between 0.1 0.4 between 0.1 0.7 or between 0.1 1.0 . Any mutation of a polynucleotide of the present invention that results in a truncation of the CYP83E4v2 or CYP83E5v2 polypeptide before a conserved heme binding motif will inhibit the enzyme and can be used in a cross described above. The domains of cytochrome P450 proteins are known in the art. See e.g. Xu et al. 2007 129 307 319 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. By crossing plants having a nonfunctional or inhibited CYP82E4v2 gene a nonfunctional or inhibited CYP82E5v2 gene or nonfunctional or inhibited CYP82E4v2 and CYP82E5v2 genes nornicotine levels can be reduced in a tobacco plant.

The activity of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine in a plant or plant part is inhibited according to the present invention if this conversion activity is statistically lower than conversion activity of the same cytochrome P450 polypeptide in a plant or plant part that has not been genetically modified to inhibit the conversion activity of that cytochrome P450 polypeptide and that has been cultured and harvested using the same protocols. In particular embodiments activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine in a modified plant or plant part according to the invention is inhibited if the activity is less than 95 less than 90 less than 80 less than 70 less than 60 less than 50 less than 40 less than 30 less than 20 less than 10 less than 5 less than 2 or less than 1 of the conversion activity of the same cytochrome P450 polypeptide in a plant that that has not been genetically modified to inhibit the expression of that nicotine demethylase polypeptide and that has been cultured and harvested using the same protocols. The activity of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine in a plant or plant part is eliminated according to the invention when it is not detectable by the assay methods known in the art or described herein. Methods of determining the activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine in a using gas chromatography are disclosed in the examples below.

In specific embodiments a cytochrome P450 inhibitory polynucleotide or nicotine demethylase mutation described herein is introduced into a plant or plant part. Subsequently a plant or plant part having the introduced inhibiting polynucleotide of the present invention is selected using methods known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to Southern blot analysis DNA sequencing PCR analysis or phenotypic analysis. A polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence of the present invention includes full length polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences truncated polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences fragments of polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences variants of polynucleotide or polypeptide sequences sense oriented nucleotide sequences antisense oriented nucleotide sequences the complement of a sense or antisense oriented nucleotide sequence inverted regions of nucleotide sequences hairpins of nucleotide sequences double stranded nucleotide sequences single stranded nucleotide sequences combinations thereof and the like. A plant or plant part altered or modified by the foregoing is grown under plant forming conditions for a time sufficient to modulate the concentration and or activity of polypeptides of the present invention in the plant. Plant forming conditions are well known in the art and discussed briefly elsewhere herein.

A transformed tobacco plant containing a nicotine demethylase inhibitory polynucleotide sequence described herein has a reduced level of conversion of nicotine to nornicotine. In particular embodiments conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a tranformed tobacco plant or plant part according to the invention is less than 95 less than 90 less than 80 less than 70 less than 60 less than 50 less than 40 less than 30 less than 20 less than 10 less than 5 less than 2 or less than 1 of the conversion in a tobacco plant that that has not been genetically modified to inhibit the expression of that nicotine demethylase polypeptide and with has been cultured and harvested using the same protocols. In some instances the transformed tobacco plant is a converter tobacco plant. Alternatively the transformed tobacco plant is a nonconverter tobacco plant. Alternatively still the transformed tobacco plant has a conversion rate lower than the rate observed in commercial non converter tobacco plants.

The level and or activity of the polypeptide may be modulated by employing a polynucleotide that is not capable of directing in a transformed plant the expression of a protein or an RNA. For example the polynucleotides of the invention may be used to design polynucleotide constructs that can be employed in methods for altering or mutating a genomic nucleotide sequence in an organism. Such polynucleotide constructs include but are not limited to RNA DNA vectors RNA DNA mutational vectors RNA DNA repair vectors mixed duplex oligonucleotides self complementary RNA DNA oligonucleotides and recombinogenic oligonucleobases. Such nucleotide constructs and methods of use are known in the art. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 565 350 5 731 181 5 756 325 5 760 012 5 795 972 and 5 871 984 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. See also International Patent Application Publication Nos. WO 98 149350 WO 99 107865 and WO 99 125921 and Beetham et al. 1999 96 8774 8778 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

The methods of the present invention do not depend on the incorporation of the entire nicotine demethylase inhibitory polynucleotide into the genome only that the plant or plant part thereof is altered as a result of the introduction of this inhibitory polynucleotide into a cell. As such the genome may be altered following the introduction of the nicotine demethylase inhibitory polynucleotide into a cell. For example the inhibitory polynucleotide or any part thereof may incorporate into the genome of the plant. Alterations to the genome include but are not limited to additions deletions and substitutions of nucleotides into the genome. While the methods of the present invention do not depend on additions deletions and substitutions of any particular number of nucleotides it is recognized that such additions deletions and or substitutions comprise at least one nucleotide.

Further one can reduce the level and or activity of a nicotine demethylase sequence by eliciting the effects of the sequence only during certain developmental stages and to switch the effect off in other stages where expression is no longer desirable. Control of nicotine demethylase expression can be obtained via the use of inducible or tissue preferred promoters. Alternatively the gene could be inverted or deleted using site specific recombinases transposons or recombination systems which would also turn on or off expression of the cytochrome P450 sequence.

According to the present invention changes in levels ratios activity or distribution of cytochrome P450 polypeptides of the present invention or changes in plant or plant part phenotype particularly reduced accumulation of nornicotine and its carcinogenic metabolite NNN can be measured by comparing a subject plant or plant part to a control plant or plant part where the subject plant or plant part and the control plant or plant part have been cultured and or harvested using the same protocols. As used herein a subject plant or plant part is one in which genetic alteration such as transformation has been affected as to the nicotine demethylase polypeptide of interest or is a plant or plant part that is descended from a plant or plant part so altered and which comprises the alteration. A control plant or plant part provides a reference point for measuring changes in phenotype of the subject plant or plant part. The measurement of changes in phenotype can be measured at any time in a plant or plant part including during plant development senescence or after curing. In other embodiments the measurement of changes in phenotype can be measured in plants grown under any conditions including from plants grown in growth chamber greenhouse or in a field. In one embodiment changes in phenotype can be measured by determining the nicotine to nornicotine conversion rate. In a preferred embodiment conversion can be measured by dividing the percentage of nornicotine as a percentage of the total tissue weight by the sum of the percentage nicotine and nornicotine as percentages of the total tissue weight and multiplying by 100.

According to the present invention a control plant or plant part may comprise a wild type plant or plant part i.e. of the same genotype as the starting material for the genetic alteration that resulted in the subject plant or plant part. A control plant or plant part may also comprise a plant or plant part of the same genotype as the starting material but that has been transformed with a null construct i.e. with a construct that has no known effect on the trait of interest such as a construct comprising a selectable marker gene . Alternatively a control plant or plan part may comprise a plant or plant part that is a non transformed segregant among progeny of a subject plant or plant part or a plant or plant part genetically identical to the subject plant or plant part but that is not exposed to conditions or stimuli that would induce suppression of the nicotine demethylase gene of interest. Finally a control plant or plant part may comprise the subject plant or plant part itself under conditions in which the nicotine demethylase inhibitory sequence is not expressed. In all such cases the subject plant or plant part and the control plant or plant part are cultured and harvested using the same protocols.

As described elsewhere herein methods are provided to reduce or eliminate the activity and or concentration of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide of the present invention by introducing into a plant or plant part a nicotine demethylase inhibitory polynucleotide sequence than is capable of inhibiting expression or function of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide that is involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine. In some instances the inhibitory sequence can be introduced by transformation of the plant or plant part such as a plant cell with an expression cassette that expresses a polynucleotide that inhibits the expression of the nicotine demethylase polypeptide. The polynucleotide may inhibit the expression of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide directly by preventing translation of the nicotine demethylase polypeptide messenger RNA or indirectly by encoding a polypeptide that inhibits the transcription or translation of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide gene encoding a nicotine demethylase polypeptide. Methods for inhibiting or eliminating the expression of a gene product in a plant are well known in the art and any such method may be used in the present invention to inhibit the expression of nicotine demethylase polypeptides.

In other embodiments the activity of a nicotine demethylase polypeptide of the present invention may be reduced or eliminated by disrupting the gene encoding the nicotine demethylase polypeptide. The invention encompasses mutagenized plants that carry mutations in cytochrome P450 genes where the mutations reduce expression of the nicotine demethylase gene or inhibit the activity of an encoded nicotine demethylase polypeptide of the present invention.

To obtain the desired plants a plant or plant part can be transformed with an expression cassette that is capable of expressing a polynucleotide that inhibits the expression of a nicotine demethylase sequence. Such methods may include the use of sense suppression cosuppression antisense suppression double stranded RNA dsRNA interference hairpin RNA interference and intron containing hairpin RNA interference amplicon mediated interference ribozymes and small interfering RNA or micro RNA.

For cosuppression an expression cassette is designed to express an RNA molecule corresponding to all or part of a messenger RNA encoding a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of interest for example a cytochrome P450 polypeptide comprising the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 or 5 24 or a sequence having substantial sequence identity to SEQ ID NO 2 or 5 24 in the sense orientation. Over expression of the RNA molecule can result in reduced expression of the native gene. Multiple plant lines transformed with the cosuppression expression cassette are then screened to identify those that show the greatest inhibition of nicotine demethylase polypeptide expression.

The polynucleotide used for cosuppression may correspond to all or part of the sequence encoding a cytochrome P450 polypeptide or the present invention all or part of the 5 and or 3 untranslated region of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide transcript or all or part of both the coding sequence and the untranslated regions of a transcript encoding a cytochrome P450 polypeptide. In some embodiments where the polynucleotide comprises all or part of the coding region for a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention the expression cassette can be designed to eliminate the start codon of the polynucleotide so that no polypeptide product will be transcribed.

Cosuppression may be used to inhibit the expression of plant genes to produce plants having undetectable levels for the polypeptides encoded by these genes or may also be used to inhibit the expression of multiple proteins in the same plant e.g. Broin et al. 2002 14 1417 1432 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 657 . Methods for using cosuppression to inhibit the expression of endogenous genes in plants are described in Flavell et al. 1994 91 3490 3496 Jorgensen et al. 1996 31 957 973 Johansen and Carrington 2001 126 930 938 Brain et al. 2002 14 1417 1432 Stoutjesdijk et al. 2002 129 1723 1731 Yu et al. 2003 63 753 763 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 034 323 5 283 184 and 5 942 657 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. The efficiency of cosuppression may be increased by including a poly dT region in the expression cassette at a position 3 to the sense sequence and 5 of the polyadenylation signal. See US Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0048814 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. Typically such a nucleotide sequence has substantial sequence identity to the sequence of the transcript of the endogenous gene preferably greater than about 65 sequence identity more preferably greater than about 95 sequence identity most preferably greater than about 99 sequence identity e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 283 184 and 5 034 323 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety .

Inhibition of the expression of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention also can be obtained by antisense suppression. For antisense suppression the expression cassette is designed to express an RNA molecule complementary to all or part of a messenger RNA encoding the cytochrome P450 polypeptide. Over expression of the antisense RNA molecule can result in reduced expression of the native gene. Accordingly multiple plant lines transformed with the antisense suppression expression cassette are screened to identify those that show the greatest inhibition of nicotine demethylase polypeptide expression.

The polynucleotide for use in antisense suppression may correspond to all or part of the complement of the sequence encoding the cytochrome P450 polypeptide all or part of the complement of the 5 and or 3 untranslated region of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide transcript or all or part of the complement of both the coding sequence and the untranslated regions of a transcript encoding the cytochrome P450 polypeptide. In addition the antisense polynucleotide may be fully complementary i.e. 100 identical to the complement of the target sequence or partially complementary i.e. less than 100 identical to the complement of the target sequence to the target sequence.

Antisense suppression also can be used to inhibit the expression of multiple proteins in the same plant e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 657 . Furthermore portions of the antisense nucleotides may be used to disrupt the expression of the target gene. Generally sequences of at least 50 nucleic acids 100 200 300 400 450 500 550 nucleic acids or greater may be used. Methods for using antisense suppression to inhibit the expression of endogenous genes in plants are described e.g. in Liu et al. 2002 129 1732 1743 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 759 829 and 5 942 657 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. Efficiency of antisense suppression may be increased by including a poly dT region in the expression cassette at a position 3 to the antisense sequence and 5 of the polyadenylation signal. See US Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0048814 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

For dsRNA interference a sense RNA molecule like that described above for cosuppression and an antisense RNA molecule that is fully or partially complementary to the sense RNA molecule are expressed in the same cell resulting in inhibition of the expression of the corresponding endogenous messenger RNA. Expression of the sense and antisense molecules can be accomplished by designing the expression cassette to comprise both a sense sequence and an antisense sequence for the target cytochrome P450 sequence. Alternatively separate expression cassettes may be used for the sense and antisense sequences. Multiple plant lines transformed with the dsRNA interference expression cassette or expression cassettes are then screened to identify plant lines that show the greatest inhibition of expression of the targeted cytochrome P450 polypeptide. Methods for using dsRNA interference to inhibit the expression of endogenous plant genes are described in Waterhouse et al. 1998 95 13939 13964 Liu et al. 2002 129 1732 1743 and International Patent Application Publication Nos. WO 99 149024 WO 99 153050 WO 99 16163 1 and WO 00 149035 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Amplicon expression cassettes comprise a plant virus derived sequence that contains all or part of the target gene but generally not all of the genes of the native virus. The viral sequences present in the transcription product of the expression cassette allow the transcription product to direct its own replication. The transcripts produced by the amplicon may be either sense or antisense relative to the target sequence i.e. the messenger RNA for a cytochrome P450 polypeptide that is involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine . Methods of using amplicons to inhibit the expression of endogenous plant genes are described e.g. in Angell Baulcombe 1997 16 3675 3684 Angell Baulcombe 1999 20 357 362 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 646 805 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

In some instances the polynucleotide expressed by the expression cassette of the invention is catalytic RNA or has ribozyme activity specific for the messenger RNA of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide described herein. Thus the polynucleotide causes the degradation of the endogenous messenger RNA resulting in reduced expression of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide. This method is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 987 071 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

In other instances inhibition of the expression of one or more nicotine demethylase polypeptides may be obtained by RNA interference by expression of a gene encoding a micro RNA miRNA . miRNAs are regulatory agents consisting of about twenty two ribonucleotides. miRNA are highly efficient at inhibiting the expression of endogenous genes. See e.g. Javier et al. 2003 425 257 263 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

For miRNA interference the expression cassette is designed to express an RNA molecule that is modeled on an endogenous miRNA gene. The miRNA gene encodes an RNA that forms a hairpin structure containing a 22 nucleotide sequence that is complementary to another endogenous gene target sequence . For suppression of nicotine demethylase polypeptide expression the 22 nucleotide sequence is selected from a cytochrome P450 polypeptide transcript sequence and contains 22 nucleotides encoding this cytochrome P450 polypeptide sequence in sense orientation and 21 nucleotides of a corresponding antisense sequence that is complementary to the sense sequence. miRNA molecules are highly efficient at inhibiting the expression of endogenous genes and the RNA interference they induce is inherited by subsequent generations of plants.

Alternatively still inhibition of the expression of one or more cytochrome P450 polypeptides may be obtained by hairpin RNA hpRNA interference or intron containing hairpin RNA ihpRNA interference. These methods are highly efficient at inhibiting the expression of endogenous genes. See Waterhouse Helliwell 20013 4 29 38 and the references cited therein.

The expression cassette for hpRNA interference may also be designed such that the sense sequence and the antisense sequence do not correspond to an endogenous RNA in this embodiment the sense and antisense sequence flank a loop sequence that comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to all or part of the endogenous messenger RNA of the target gene. Thus it is the loop region that determines the specificity of the RNA interference. See e.g. International Patent Application Publication No. WO 02 00904 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Transcriptional gene silencing TGS may be accomplished through use of hpRNA constructs where the inverted repeat of the hairpin shares sequence identity with the promoter region of a gene to be silenced. Processing of the hpRNA into short RNAs that can interact with the homologous promoter region may trigger degradation or methylation to result in silencing Aufsatz et al. 2002 99 16499 16506 and Mette et al. 2000 19 5194 5201 .

In some instances the polynucleotide encodes an antibody that binds to at least one cytochrome P450 polypeptide and reduces the activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention. In another embodiment the binding of the antibody results in increased turnover of the antibody cytochrome P450 polypeptide complex by cellular quality control mechanisms. The expression of antibodies in plant parts and the inhibition of molecular pathways by expression and binding of antibodies to proteins in plant parts are well known in the art. See e.g. Conrad Sonnewald 2003 21 35 36 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

The activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide of the present invention can be reduced or eliminated by disrupting the gene encoding the cytochrome P450 polypeptide. The gene encoding the cytochrome P450 polypeptide may be disrupted by any method known in the art e.g. by transposon tagging or by mutagenizing plants using random or targeted mutagenesis and selecting for plants that have reduced nicotine demethylase activity or mutations in CYP82E4v2 or CYP82E5v2.

Transposon tagging may be used to reduce or eliminate the activity of one or more cytochrome P450 polypeptides of the present invention. Transposon tagging comprises inserting a transposon within an endogenous cytochrome P450 gene to reduce or eliminate expression of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide.

Methods for the transposon tagging of specific genes in plants are well known in the art. See e.g. Maes et al. 1999 4 90 96 Dharmapuri Sonti 1999 179 53 59 Meissner et al. 2000 22 265 274 Phogat et al. 2000 25 57 63 Walbot 2000 2 103 107 Gai et al. 2000 28 94 96 and Fitzmaurice et al. 1999 153 1919 1928 .

Additional methods for decreasing or eliminating the expression of endogenous genes in plants are also known in the art and can be similarly applied to the instant invention. These methods include other forms of mutagenesis using mutagenic or carcinogenic compounds including ethyl methanesulfonate induced mutagenesis deletion mutagenesis and fast neutron deletion mutagenesis used in a reverse genetics sense with PCR to identify plant lines in which the endogenous gene has been deleted. For examples of these methods see Ohshima et al. 1998 213 472 481 Okubara et al. 1994 137 867 874 and Quesada et al. 2000 154 421 4315 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. In addition a fast and automatable method for screening for chemically induced mutations TILLING Targeting Induced Local Lesions In Genomes using denaturing HPLC or selective endonuclease digestion of selected PCR products is also applicable to the instant invention. See McCallum et al. 2000 18 455 457 herein incorporated by reference.

Mutations that impact gene expression or that interfere with the function of the encoded cytochrome P450 protein can be determined using methods that are well known in the art. Insertional mutations in gene exons usually result in null mutants. Mutations in conserved residues can be particularly effective in inhibiting the metabolic function of the encoded protein. Conserved residues of plant cytochrome P450 polypeptides suitable for mutagenesis with the goal to eliminate activity of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide in converting nicotine to nornicotine in a plant or plant part have been described. Conserved residues of plant cytochrome P450 polypeptides are disclosed in where the residues that differ from the other P450 polypeptides are shaded in grey. The conserved residue is that which is not shaded in grey at each position. Such mutants can be isolated according to well known procedures.

Dominant mutants can be used to trigger RNA silencing due to gene inversion and recombination of a duplicated gene locus. See e.g. Kusaba et al. 2003 15 1455 1467.

While a number of sequences are recognized in the practice of the invention in particular sequences encoding SEQ ID NO 2 and 13 find particular use. While not intending to be bound by any particular mechanism of action the inventors believed that these sequences encode a nicotine demethylase that catalyzes the oxidative N demethylation of nicotine to nornicotine. Thus methods to specifically inhibit these coding sequences and not other P450 sequences may be beneficial to the recombinant plant. That is strategies that would lead to inhibition of gene function of this individual locus may prove to be superior to those that inhibit the entire gene family. The P450 enzymes are involved in many mechanisms in the plant the inhibition of which may prove deleterious or detrimental to the growth and development of the plant or may negatively impact factors such as the disease defense capabilities of the plant. Likewise because the plant P450 enzymes have been implicated in plant metabolites such as phenylpropanoid alkaloids terpenoids lipids cyanogenic glycosides glucosinolates and a host of other chemical entities disruption of P450 activity may alter components involved in tobacco flavor texture or other properties that would impact the commercial usefulness of the plant. Therefore the use of the methods discussed above to inhibit expression in a manner that specifically targets the sequence coding for SEQ ID NO 2 or 13 may be preferred including targeted mutational strategies such as chimeraplasty. See e.g. Stewart et al. 2000 24 838 843 and Graham et al. 2002 1587 1 6 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. In some embodiments the methods discussed above are used to inhibit expression in a manner that specifically targets SEQ ID NO 1 encoding SEQ ID NO 2 SEQ ID NO 50 encoding SEQ ID NO 13 or both of these sequences.

The compositions of the invention can be used in screening methods to identify nonconverter plants for use in breeding programs. In this manner the nucleotide sequences of the invention can be used to screen native germplasms for nonconverter plants having a stable mutation in one or more P450 genes identified herein. These nonconverter plants identified by the methods of the invention can be used to develop breeding lines.

In addition to the nucleotide sequences encoding P450 coding sequences compositions of the invention include an intron sequence in the CYP82E5v2 sequence that can be used in screening methods. While not intending to be bound by any particular mechanism of action the CYP82E5v2 gene s may represent the only member s of the cytochrome P450 family involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine and as stated previously there is a good likelihood that the CYP82E5v2 cDNAs originated from a single unique genetic locus in green leaves of tobacco. For certain applications it would be useful to have a means of diagnostically differentiating this specific member of the cytochrome P450 gene family from the rest of the closely related sequences within this family. For example it is possible that within the naturally existing tobacco germplasm or in mutagenized populations accessions may exist in which this gene is naturally dysfunctional and may therefore may be valuable as a permanently nonconverter resource. Such dysfunctional genes may include those encoding the polypeptides set forth in SEQ ID NOS 6 and 12. A method to specifically assay for such genotypes e.g. deletion mutants rearrangements and the like could serve as a powerful tool. The present invention includes primers designed to specifically amplify exon 1 and exon 2 of CYP82E5v2 or CYP82E4v2 where one of the two primer pairs corresponds to the intron between the exons. Examples of primers useful to amplify the exons of CYP82E4v2 include SEQ ID NO 32 with SEQ ID NOS 33 35. Examples of primers useful to amplify the exons of CYP82E5v2 include SEQ ID NO 36 with 37 and SEQ ID NO 38 with 39. These same primers can be used for sequence analysis of the products.

When any cDNA corresponding to a member of the CYP82E2 family is used as a hybridization probe in a Southern blotting assay of tobacco genome is DNA a complex pattern is observed. This is expected given that there are multiple closely related members of this gene family. Because the intron regions of genes are typically less conserved than exons it is predicted that the use of an intron specific probe would reduce this complexity and better enable one to distinguish the gene s corresponding to the CYP82E4v2 gene or the CYP82E5v2 gene from the other members of the family. The use of a CYP82E4v2 or CYP82E5v2 intron specific probe and or the PCR primers used to generate products provide powerful tools in assays to determine whether any naturally occurring or mutagenized tobacco plants possess deletions or rearrangements that may render the gene inactive. Such a plant can then be used in breeding programs to create tobacco lines that are incapable of converting.

The cytochrome P450 polynucleotides of the invention and variants and fragments thereof can be used in the methods of the present invention to inhibit cvtochrome P450s that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine in a plant. In this manner inhibitory sequences that target expression or function of a cytochrome P450 polypeptide disclosed herein are introduced into a plant or plant cell of interest. The expression cassettes described herein can be introduced into a plant of interest for example a plant as noted herein below using any suitable transformation methods known in the art including those described herein.

The methods of the invention do not depend on a particular method for introducing a sequence into a plant or plant part only that the desired sequence gains access to the interior of at least one cell of the plant or plant part. Methods for introducing polynucleotide sequences into plants are known in the art and include but are not limited to stable transformation methods transient transformation methods and viral mediated transformation methods.

Transformation protocols as well as protocols for introducing heterologous polynucleotide sequences into plants vary depending on the type of plant or plant cell targeted for transformation. Suitable methods of introducing polynucleotides into plant cells of the present invention include microinjection Crossway et al. 1986 4 320 334 electroporation Shillito et al. 1987 153 313 336 and Riggs et al. 1986 83 5602 56116 mediated transformation U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 104 310 5 149 645 5 177 010 5 231 019 5 463 174 5 464 763 5 469 976 4 762 785 5 004 863 5 159 135 5 563 055 and 5 981 840 direct gene transfer Paszkowski et al. 1984 1 2717 2722 and ballistic particle acceleration U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 945 050 5 141 131 5 886 244 5 879 918 and 5 932 782 Tomes et al. 1995 in ed. Gamborg Phillips Springer Verlag Berlin McCabe et al. 1988 6 923 926 . See also Weissinger et al. 1988 22 421 477 Christou et al. 1988 87 671 674 soybean McCabe et al. 1988 6 923 926 soybean Finer McMullen 1991 27P 175 182 soybean Singh et al. 1998 96 319 324 soybean De Wet et al. 1985 in ed. Chapman et al. Longman N.Y. pp. 197 209 pollen Kaeppler et al. 1990 9 415 418 and Kaeppler et al. 1992 84 560 566 whisker mediated transformation D Halluin et al. 1992 4 1495 1505 electroporation each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Any plant tissue that can be subsequently propagated using clonal methods whether by organogenesis or embryogenesis may be transformed with a recombinant construct comprising a cytochrome P450 inhibitory sequence for example an expression cassette of the present invention. As used herein organogenesis means a process by which shoots and roots are developed sequentially from meristematic centers. As used herein embryogenesis means a process by which shoots and roots develop together in a concerted fashion not sequentially whether from somatic cells or gametes. Exemplary tissues that are suitable for various transformation protocols described herein include but are not limited to callus tissue existing meristematic tissue e.g. apical meristems axillary buds and root ineristems and induced meristem tissue e.g. cotyledon meristem and hypocotyl meristem hypocotyls cotyledons leaf disks pollen embryos and the like.

As used herein stable transformation means that the nucleotide construct of interest introduced into a plant integrates into the genome of the plant and is capable of being inherited by the progeny thereof. Likewise transient transformation means that a sequence is introduced into the plant and is only temporally expressed or is only transiently present in the plant.

The inhibitory sequences of the invention can be provided to a plant using a variety of transient transformation methods. The inhibitory sequences of the invention can be transiently transformed into the plant using techniques known in the art. Such techniques include viral vector systems and the precipitation of the polynucleotide in a manner that precludes subsequent release of the DNA. Thus the transcription from the particle bound DNA can occur but the frequency with which it is released to become integrated into the genome is greatly reduced. Such methods include the use of particles coated with polyethyenlimine PEI Sigma 4P3143 .

Alternatively the inhibitory sequence of the invention may be introduced into plants by contacting plants with a virus or viral nucleic acids. Generally such methods involve incorporating an expression cassette of the invention within a viral DNA or RNA molecule. Promoters for use in the expression cassettes of the invention also encompass promoters utilized for transcription by viral RNA polymerases. Methods for introducing polynucleotides into plants and expressing a protein encoded therein involving viral DNA or RNA molecules are known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 889 191 5 889 190 5 866 785 5 589 367 5 316 931 and Porta et al. 1996 5 209 221 each of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Transformed cells may be grown into plants in accordance with conventional methods. See e.g. Vasil Hildebrandt 1965 150 889 Negaard Hoffman 1989 7 8 808 812. These plants may then be grown and either pollinated with the same transformed line or different lines and the resulting progeny having expression of the desired phenotypic characteristic identified i.e. reduced expression of one or more nicotine demethylases that are involved in the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine and thus reduced content of nornicotine and a concomitant reduced content of its nitrosamine metabolite NNN in the plant particularly in the leaf tissues. Two or more generations may be grown to ensure that expression of the desired phenotypic characteristic is stably maintained and inherited and then seeds harvested to ensure expression of the desired phenotypic characteristic has been achieved. In this manner the present invention provides transformed seed also referred to as transgenic seed having a polynucleotide of the invention for example an expression cassette of the invention stably incorporated into their genome.

The compositions and methods of the invention can be used to reduce the nornicotine content particularly in the leaves and stems of any plant of the genus including but not limited to the following species and x . The present invention also encompasses the transformation of any varieties of a plant of the genus including but not limited to and as well as varieties commonly known as flue or bright varieties Burley varieties dark varieties and oriental Turkish varieties.

The transgenic plants of the genus as described herein are suitable for conventional growing and harvesting techniques such as cultivation in manure rich soil or without manure bagging the flowers or no bagging or topping or no topping. The harvested leaves and stems may be used in any traditional tobacco product including but not limited to pipe cigar and cigarette tobacco and chewing tobacco in any form including leaf tobacco shredded tobacco or cut tobacco.

Thus the present invention provides a plant particularly leaf tissues of these plants comprising an expression cassette of the invention and a reduced amount of nornicotine and N nitrosonornicotine. As used herein a reduced amount or a reduced level means an amount of nornicotine and or NNN in a treated or transgenic plant of the genus or a plant part or tobacco product thereof that is less than what would be found in a plant of the genus or a plant part or tobacco product from the same variety of tobacco processed i.e. cultured and harvested in the same manner that has not been treated or was not made transgenic for reduced nornicotine and or NNN. The amount of nornicotine may be reduced by about 10 to greater than about 90 including greater than about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 60 about 70 and about 80 . The conversion of nicotine to nornicotine can be less than 0.3 less than 0.5 less than 0.7 between 0.1 0.5 between 0.1 0.4 between 0.1 0.7 or between 0.1 1.0 in plants plant parts and products of the present invention and more specifically in plants plant parts having mutations in CYP82E4v2 and CYP825v2.

As used herein tobacco products means but is not limited to smoking materials e.g. any cigarette including a cigarillo a non ventilated or vented recess filter cigarette a cigar pipe tobacco smokeless products e.g. snuff chewing tobacco biodegradable inserts e.g. gum lozenges dissolving strips . See e.g. US Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0019448 incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. Tobacco product also includes blends that can be made by combining conventional tobacco with differing amounts of the low nornicotine and or NNN tobacco described herein. Tobacco products also includes plant or plant part of the genus as described above is cured tobacco.

The tobacco products described herein reduce the carcinogenic potential of tobacco smoke that is inhaled directly with consumption of a tobacco product such as cigars cigarettes or pipe tobacco or inhaled as secondary smoke i.e. by an individual that inhales the tobacco smoke generated by an individual consuming a tobacco product such as cigars cigarettes or pipe tobacco . The cured tobacco described herein can be used to prepare a tobacco product particularly one that undergoes chemical changes due to heat comprising a reduced amount of nornicotine and or NNN in the smoke stream that is inhaled directly or inhaled as secondary smoke. In the same manner the tobacco products of the invention may be useful in the preparation of smokeless tobacco products such as chewing tobacco snuff and the like.

The tobacco products derived from the transgenic tobacco plants of the present invention thus find use in methods for reducing the carcinogenic potential of these tobacco products and reducing the exposure of humans to the carcinogenic nitrosamine NNN particularly for individuals that are users of these tobacco products. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation.

All plant materials were obtained from Dr. Earl Wernsman Department of Crop Science North Carolina State University Raleigh N.C. . and seed were obtained from the germplasm collection maintained by North Carolina State University. Plants were grown in growth chambers for two months until they were transferred to a greenhouse. Burley lines DH 98 325 5 nonconverter and DH 98 325 6 converter represent near isogenic lines i.e. recovered from the same maternal haploid plant. SC58 is a flue cured tobacco variety nonconverter individuals of which are designated SC58 cc . SC58 CC is a near isogenic stable converter line that originated though the introgression of the single dominant converter locus C found in the tobacco progenitor species into SC58 Mann et al. 1964 4 349 353 . After eight additional backcrosses to SC58 the near isogenic SC58 CC line was created and was subsequently maintained via self fertilization.

All plants were maintained in growth chambers or greenhouses using standard potting soil and fertilizer. Plants kept in a 14 10 light dark cycle were watered once a day as needed and fertilized with Peters Professional All Purpose Plant Food fertilizer 20 20 20 Spectrum Brands Inc. Madison Wis. once a week. To facilitate senescence detached green leaves were treated by dipping each leaf for 30 seconds in a 0.2 ethephon solution. Leaves were cured in plastic bags under dark conditions until they turned yellow.

For the ethyl methane sulphonate EMS mutagensis two grams of seed from the strong converter Burley tobacco line DH98 325 6 were surface sterilized in 50 bleach for 12 minutes and rinsed 6 times in sterile dHO. Approximately 80 mg aliquots were then placed in screw cap vials and imbibed in 1 ml dHO for 12 hours. The dHO was decanted and the seed was incubated in 1 ml of 0.5 EMS Sigma St. Louis Mo. and rocked gently on a Nutator Mixer TCS Scientific Corp. New Hope Pa. at room temperature for 12 hours in the dark. After removal of the EMS solution the treated seeds were washed eight times in 1 ml volumes of dHO with gentle shaking for 5 minutes. After the final wash seeds were collected onto a Buchner funnel for a final rinse and subsequently allowed to dry on filter paper before sowing on soil. Seedlings were grown on standard float trays for about 7 weeks then transplanted to a field. Field grown plants were allowed to self pollinate and 5 10 capsules containing Mgeneration seed per plant were collected and catalogued corresponding to approximately 4000 independent Mindividuals.

Total RNA was extracted from green and senescing leaves of DH98 325 6 tobacco using TRIzol Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. following the protocol of the manufacturer. Genomic DNA was removed by treating the extracts with TURBO DNA free DNase Kit Ambion Austin Tex. following the protocol of the manufacturer. cDNA synthesis was performed with the StrataScript First Strand Kit Stratagene Cedar Creek Tex. using oligo dT primers and 3 g of DNase free total RNA. Full length NtabCYP82E5v2 cDNAs were amplified using the E5Orf F forward and E5Orf R reverse primers 10 ng tobacco leaf cDNA library as a template and Long Range PCR Enzyme Blend GeneChoice Inc. Frederick Md. following the protocol of the manufacturer. DNA sequence information of the primers is listed in the sequence listing and above. PCR conditions were as follows 3 minutes initial denaturation at 95 C. followed by 33 cycles of denaturation at 94 C. for 30 seconds annealing at 60 C. for 30 seconds and extension at 68 C. for 90 seconds followed by an incubation at 68 C. for 7 minutes. PCR products were cloned into pGEM T Easy cloning vector Promega Corp. Madison Wis. and sequenced according to the dideoxy method using synthetic oligonucleotides as primers Sanger et al. 1977 74 5463 5467 .

Genomic DNA was isolated from the green leaves of and DH98 325 6 tobacco using a cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide based extraction procedure according to the instructions of the NucleoSpin Plant kit BD Bioscience Clontech Palo Alto Calif. .

Genomic fragments of the CYP82E5 orthologs were amplified in two consecutive PCR reactions using nested primers. The first PCR mixture contained 0.5 M each of the E5Gen F1 forward SEQ ID NO 40 and E5Gen R1 reverse SEQ ID NO 41 primers 200 M of each dNTP 20 ng of genomic DNA template and 2 U of Platinum Taq polymerase Invitrogen . PCR amplification was performed under the following conditions 90 C. for 3 minutes 30 cycles of denaturation at 94 C. for 30 seconds annealing at 57 C. for 30 seconds and extension at 68 C. for 2.2 minutes followed by a final extension at 68 C. for 5 minutes. The composition and conditions of the second PCR were the same as those described for the first amplification except primers E5Gen F2 SEQ ID NO 42 and E5Gen R2 SEQ ID NO 43 were added and 1 l of a 50 fold diluted sample of the first PCR product was used as a template. The purified products of the final PCR were ligated into the pGEM T Easy cloning vector and subjected to DNA sequencing.

To facilitate the expression of the NtabCYP82E5v2 cDNA in yeast the open reading frame of the gene was inserted downstream of the galactose inducible glucose repressed GAL10 CYC1 promoter of the pYeDP60 yeast expression vector Cullin Pompon 1988 . The recombinant plasmid was introduced into WAT11 yeast strain using the lithium acetate based transformation method as described by Gietz et al. 1992 20 1425 1425. Yeast culturing galactose mediated induction of gene expression and the isolation of the microsomal fractions were performed according to the protocol of Pompon et al. 1996 272 51 64.

The nicotine metabolism assays were performed in a reaction mixture containing 0.75 mM NADPH 2.5 M pyrrolidine 2 C nicotine Moravek Biochemicals Brea Calif. and 90 g of yeast microsomes in a final volume of 150 l Pi buffer pH 7.1. Nicotine concentrations were adjusted by the addition of nonradiolabelled nicotine to final concentrations ranging between 0.7 and 13 M. Microsomal preparations isolated from yeast containing an empty vector were used as negative control. Reaction mixtures were incubated at 25 C. for 7 minutes and the reaction was arrested with 50 l of acetone. After centrifugation at 16 000 g for 3 minutes 50 l the sample was spotted on a 250 m Whatman K6F silica plate. The plates were developed in choloroform methanol ammonia 60 10 1 solvent system. Nicotine and its nornicotine derivative were quantified by measuring the relative abundance of their radioactive traces with a Bioscan System 400 imaging scanner. Kand vvalues were calculated by fitting the Michaelis Menten equation to nicotine demethylation measurements at different substrate concentrations using the SigmaPlot 10.0 graphing software Systat Software Inc. San Jose Calif. .

Expression of the and tobacco orthologs of CYP82E4v2 and CYP82E5v2 were analyzed by allele specific quantitative real time PCR qrt PCR analysis using SYBR Green I fluorescence chemistry Morrison et al. 1998 24 954 962 . Total RNA was extracted from the green and cured leaves of 3 month old plants using the methods already described for NtabCYP82E5v2 cDNA isolation herein. CYP82E4v2 and CYP82E5v2 transcripts were amplified using the E4Rt F SEQ ID NO 44 and E5Rt F SEQ ID NO 46 forward in conjunction with the E4Rt R SEQ ID NO 45 and the E5Rt R reverse SEQ ID NO 47 primers respectively. The qrt PCR mixture contained 1 iQ SYBR Green Supermix Bio Rad Laboratories 0.5 M of each primer and 0.5 g of cDNA. Transcript measurements were obtained using standard curves generated by amplifying known amounts of target DNA and a 220 bp fragment of the glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase G3PDH gene amplified with the G3PDH F SEQ ID NO 48 and G3PDH R SEQ ID NO 49 primers to provide an internal standard for cDNA measurements. DNA amplifications were performed using the real time PCR system Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. under the following conditions 95 C. for 2 minutes 35 cycles of 95 C. for 30 seconds 57 C for 30 seconds 72 C. for 50 seconds followed by final extension at 72 C. for 5 minutes. DNA sequences of the amplicons generated by qrt PCR were verified by cloning the PCR products and sequencing 20 randomly selected clones.

The RNAi based gene silencing constructs are assembled in a version of the pKYL80 cloning vector Schardl et al. 1987 61 1 11 that is engineered to contain a 151 bp fragment of the soybean FAD3 gene intron between the XhoI and SacI restriction sites of the polylinker pKYLX80I . To create a construct in which the FAD3 intron was flanked by a sense and antisense fragment of CYP82E5v2 a 400 bp intron region is cloned between the HindIII XhoI and SacI XbaI restriction sites of pKYLX801 in its sense and antisense orientation respectively. The resulting HindIII XbaI fragment containing the CYP8E5v2 sense arm FAD3 intron and CYP82E5v2 antisense arm is subcloned into the pKYLX71 plant binary expression vector Maiti et al. 1993 90 6110 6114 between the 35S CaMV promoter and a rubisco small subunit terminator.

Overexpression constructs are created by replacing the 3 glucuronidase ORF of the plant binary expression vector pBI121 Clontech with the full length coding regions of the CYP82E5v2 CYP82E5v2 variants or CYP82E4v2 variants cDNAs. This places the tobacco P450s under the transcriptional control of the 35S CaMV promoter. The pBI121 and pKYLX71 based constructs are transformed into strain LBA 4404 and introduced into tobacco cultivars Petite Havana and DH98 325 6 converter respectively using established protocols Horsch et al. 1985 227 1229 1231 .

Total cellular RNAs are isolated from tobacco leaves using the TRIZOL method as described by the manufacturer Invitrogen . Five to ten micrograms of RNA are size fractionated on a 1.2 agarose gel prepared in TBE buffer. RNA immobilization probe labeling and signal detection are carried out using the DIG nucleic acid labeling and detection kits according to the manufacturer s instructions Roche . Alternatively probes are synthesized using P dCTP according to protocols accompanying the Random Primed DNA Labeling kit Roche .

Genomic DNA was isolated from young leaf material of a single greenhouse grown Mplant from each independent Mseed pool. 1.5 ml screw cap vials were used to collect a single leaf disc from each plant and the samples were stored at 80 C. until they were processed. The leaf tissue was deposited to the bottom of the vial by centrifugation and the tubes were set in a shallow amount of liquid nitrogen to facilitate grinding using plastic pestles. Genomic DNA was isolated from the ground material by adding 320 l extraction buffer 200 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 250 mM NaCl 25 mM EDTA 0.5 SDS . Samples were vortexed for 20 seconds and left at room temperature for 5 minutes followed by a 37 C. incubation for 3 minutes. The lysed material was centrifuged 10 minutes and the supernatant transferred to fresh tube. 50 l of protein precipitation solution Qiagen was added the samples briefly vortexed then set on ice for 5 minutes followed by a 4 minutes centrifugation at 16 000 g. Precipitation of nucleic acids was accomplished by adding 0.7 volume isopropanol to the supernatant followed by centrifugation for 7 minutes at 12 000 g. After a 70 ethanol wash the pellet was resuspended in 50 l TE.

CYP82E4v2 and CYP82E5v2 each contain two exons separated by a large intron 1001 bp and 1054 bp respectively . PCR primers are designed to specifically amplify exon 1 and exon 2 for each gene. Due to the high sequence homology shared among the cDNAs of CYP82E2 gene family members two primer pairs correspond to intron sequence in order to obtain amplification products specific to the desired gene owing to the fact that the intron sequences of this gene family are not nearly as conserved as the exon sequences . The exon 1 specific primers for CYP82E4v2 are 5 TGGAATTATGCCCATCCTACA 3 forward SEQ ID NO 32 and 5 CATTAGTGGTTGCACCTGAGG 3 reverse SEQ ID NO 33 . CYP82E4v2 exon 2 specific primers are 5 GATGAGATGTGTGCATACTTG 3 forward SEQ ID NO 34 and 5 CCAAATTAGAAAAACTCGTACTG 3 reverse SEQ ID NO 35 . For CYP82E5v2 the primers specific for amplifying exon 1 are 5 ATTGTAGGACTAGTAACCCTTACAC 3 forward SEQ ID NO 36 and 5 GAGGCACAAAGAATTCTCATC 3 reverse SEQ ID NO 37 and for CYP82E5v2 exon 2 the primers 5 GAGTAGAGGGATTGTTTCCG 3 forward SEQ ID NO 38 and 5 GTACAATCAAGATAAAACATCTAAGG 3 reverse SEQ ID NO 39 are used. PCR reactions were conducted in 96 well microtiter plates using 1 l of template in a 25 l reaction volume containing 10 pmoles each primer 200 M dNTP 1.5 mM MgCl and 1.4 units of high fidelity Taq DNA polymerase Roche . DNA amplification of CYP82E4v2 sequences was performed using an initial 3 minutes denaturation at 94 C. followed by 30 cycles of denaturation at 94 C. for 30 seconds primer annealing at 55 C. for 30 seconds and extension at 72 C. for 1.5 minutes followed by a final 7 minutes 72 C. extension. Amplification conditions for CYP82E5v2 gene fragments were the same except the annealing temperature was 53 C. PCR reaction products were purified using Millipore s Montage PCR 96 filter units. Agarose gel electrophoresis was used to estimate the quantity and quality of the cleaned up PCR products prior to sequencing.

The PCR products were subjected to cycle sequencing using Applied Biosystems Big Dye Version 3.1 in 96 well format sequencing reactions according to the manufacturer s instructions. The primers used for sequencing 3.2 pmoles per reaction are as follows 5 TGGAATTATGCCCATCCTACA 3 SEQ ID NO 32 and 5 CCTATAAAAAGGAAGTTGCCG 3 SEQ ID NO 44 forward and reverse primers for exon 1 of CYP82E4v2 5 GATGAGATGTGTGCATACTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 34 and 5 CCAAATTAGAAAAACTCGTACTG 3 SEQ ID NO 35 forward and reverse primers for exon 2 of CYP82E4v2 5 ATTGTAGGACTAGTAACCCTTACAC 3 SEQ ID NO 36 and 5 CTCATCTTTTTTCCATTTATCATTC 3 SEQ ID NO 45 forward and reverse primers for exon 1 of CYP82E5v2 and 5 CAAGGTTCGGCAGATAGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 46 and 5 GTACAATCAAGATAAAACATCTAAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 39 forward and reverse primers for exon 2 of CYP82E5v2 . Sequencing reactions were cleaned up using EdgeBioSystems 96 well plates and analyzed using high throughput Applied Biosystems 3700 or 3730 capillary sequencers. Sequences were aligned using the Clustal W algorithm as represented in the Vector NTI software package Invitrogen . Putative mutations are verified by repeating the sequence analysis on sibling Mplants grown from the cognate Mseed lot.

Alkaloid analyses are performed by gas chromatography as described previously. Briefly alkaloid analyses are performed by detaching tobacco leaves and dipping them in a solution of 1 ethephon then air curing in a growth chamber for 7 10 days. Cured leaves are dried at 50 C. for two days and ground to a fine powder. A quantitative determination of the nicotine nornicotine anatabine and anabasine content was made using a Perkin Elmer Autosystem XL Gas Chromatograph according to the LC Protocol established at the University of Kentucky available online at the University of Kentucky s website hereby incorporated by reference.

To assess the alkaloid composition of wild type plants concentrations of nicotine and nornicotine were determined in the green and cured leaves of and various tobacco genotypes using gas chromatography. In nornicotine appears as the predominant alkaloid in both the green and cured leaves Table 1 . Converter Burley cultivar DH 98 325 6 and converter Flue Cured cultivar SC58C contain low levels of nornicotine about 3 in the green leaves but a large percentage about 95 and 25 respectively nicotine content is metabolized into nornicotine once the leaves senesce see Table 1 . Levels of nornicotine are low in both the green and cured leaves of nonconverter Burley and Flue Cured cultivars DH98 325 5 and SC58NC respectively although nicotine conversion slightly increases after curing.

To identify putative nicotine demethylase genes from tobacco a PCR based gene amplification strategy was used where the primers are complementary to the 5 and 3 termini of the NtabCYP82E3 coding region. Primer design was based on the observation that all members of the closely related CYP82E2 gene subfamily display a high degree of DNA sequence identity at the regions immediately following the ATG initiation signal and preceding the TAA stop codon Siminszky et al. 2005 102 14919 14924 providing well conserved primer target sites for the amplification of additional family members. A PCR using CYP82E3 specific primers and permissive annealing temperatures was conducted to amplify putative nicotine demethylase genes from a tobacco green leaf cDNA library. DNA sequence analysis of 20 randomly selected clones generated from the PCR products yielded 19 NtabCYP82E3 cDNA sequences and one cDNA whose DNA sequence is different from all functionally characterized members of the CYP82E2 gene subfamily Siminszky et al. 2005 102 14919 14924 . A homology search against the GenBank database using the BLAST algorithm reveals that the clone representing the unique DNA sequence shares a 99.7 nucleotide and a 99.2 predicted amino acid identity with the tobacco CYP82E5v1 cDNA of unknown function. According to the guidelines of the P450 nomenclature committee the cDNA was named NtabCYP82E5v2. The predicted amino acid sequence of NtabCYP82E5v2 is 89.2 91.9 and 91.3 identical to that of NtabCYP82E2 NtabCYP82E3 and NtabCYP82E4v2 respectively.

To determine whether NtabCYP82E5v2 encodes nicotine demethylase activity the N.tabCYP82E5 cDNA is expressed in the WAT11 yeast strain. The WAT11 strain was engineered to provide high efficiency transgene expression and an optimal redox environment for P450 mediated reactions by expressing the P450 reductase gene ATR1 under the transcriptional control of a galactose inducible promoter Pompon et al. 1996 272 51 64 . Microsomal fragments isolated from yeast expressing NtabCYP82E5v2 actively catalyze the N demethylation of nicotine. The m and vvalues for the NtabCYP82E5v2 mediated nicotine demethylase reaction are 5.6 1.4 M and 0.7 0.02 nmol minmgprotein mean standard error respectively. In contrast no nicotine demethylase activity is evident when microsomes isolated from yeast transformed with an empty plasmid are added to the catalytic assay.

As the allotetraploid genome of tobacco consists of two genetic components the S genome donated by and the T genome derived from is which of the two progenitor species contributed NtabCYP82E5v2 to tobacco is unknown. To this end CYP82E5 specific primers were designed to amplify a genomic fragment of the CYP82E5 genes from tobacco and the NtabCYP82E5v2 donating progenitor. PCR amplifications produce a distinct 2243 bp product when genomic DNA isolated from tobacco or is used as template but amplicons are not detected when genomic DNA of is amplified indicating that NtabCYP82E5v2 was derived from . DNA sequence analysis reveals that the genomic fragments of NtabCYP82E5v2 and NtomCYP82E5 contain a 1054 bp intron flanked by a 604 bp 5 and a 585 bp 3 coding region and differ at 15 positions of which nine and six are located within the coding region and intron respectively.

Furthermore the coding regions of ten randomly selected genomic clones isolated from tobacco share 100 nucleotide identity with the NtabCYP82E5v2 cDNA suggesting that NtabCYP82E5v2 is the only CYP82E5 variant located in DH98 325 6 tobacco.

To investigate the catalytic role of CYP82E5 in planta the transcriptional profile of CYP82E5v2 in the green and senescing leaves of converter DH98 325 6 and nonconverter DH98 325 5 Burley converter and nonconverter Flue Cured SC58 tobacco and was determined using quantitative real time qrt PCR analysis.

Low levels of NtabCYP82E5v2 express in the green or yellow leaves of all tobacco cultivars see Table 2 . The expression of NtabCYP82E5v2 significantly increased in the cured versus green leaves of converter and nonconverter Burley cultivars but remained unchanged in Flue Cured tobacco. In the green leaves of expression of NtomCYP82E5 was higher than in tobacco but no difference was noted between the cured leaves of the two species Table 2 . To compare the expression levels of CYP82E5v2 with that of CYP82E4v2 a previously characterized nicotine demethylase gene whose transcription was shown to be sharply upregulated in senescing leaves of and converter tobacco Gavilano et al. 2007 282 249 256 the transcript accumulation of CYP82E4v2 was compared in the same extracts used for quantifying the CYP82E5v2 mRNA. Transcription of NtabCYP82E5v2 is significantly higher than that of NtabCYP82E4v2 in the green leaves of all tobacco cultivars and in the cured leaves of nonconverter tobacco plants. However the trend is reversed in the cured leaves of converter tobacco and Table 2 . Of the two nicotine demethylase genes characterized thus far CYP82E4v2 is the dominant factor in senescence inducible nornicotine production in and tobacco. In addition the activity of NtabCYP82E5v2 is the key determinant of nicotine conversion in the green leaves of tobacco.

Even though CYP82E5v2 and CYP82E4v2 are both nicotine demethylases they have less sequence homology to each other than CYP82E5v2 does to CYP82E3 for example.

To facilitate the introduction of random mutations into the tobacco genome thousands of seeds of the strong Converter Burley line DH98 325 6 were treated with the chemical mutagene ethyl methane sulphonate EMS . Approximately 4000 mutagenized plants Mgeneration were grown in the field and allowed to self pollinate. Several capsules from each individual plant were combined to create discrete Mseed populations each corresponding to an individual Mplant. Genomic DNAs were isolated from young leaf tissue of a single greenhouse grown Mplant from each Mseed pool. To identify plants carrying mutations in the CYP82E4v2 gene specific primers were designed to independently amplify each of the gene s two exons. DNA sequence information was obtained using 96 well high throughput sequence analysis of the amplification products. The complete analysis of 96 individual plants involved 4 separate 96 well sequencing reactions forward and reverse sequencing of the exon 1 amplification product and forward and reverse sequencing of the exon 2 PCR product.

Mutations were identified by conducting a multi sequence alignment of all 96 sequences for a given run and looking for deviations from the wild type sequence. Any given mutation that occurred in a parental Mplant would be expected to be segregating in 1 2 1 ratio in the Mgeneration for the mutant versus wild type alleles. Mplants that are homozygous for an EMS induced mutation are readily recognized as polymorphisms deviating from the wild type sequence verified in both directions. Mplants that are heterozygous for a mutation in CYP82E4v2 would be expected to have the mutant and wild type alleles each representing 50 of the amplification product. Upon sequencing the location of such a mutation would be expected to be annotated as an N since the fluorescence reading at that site would be a mixture of two alternative bases. The appearance of an N at the same nucleotide location using the complementary primers combined with visual inspection of the corresponding chromatograms distinguishes plants that are truly heterozygous for a mutation in CYP82E4v2 and differentiate these true heterozygotes from artifactual sequence anomalies.

High throughput sequence analysis of 672 independent Mplants resulted in the identification of eleven individuals possessing point mutations within the CYP82E4v2 gene see Table 6 . Six of the eleven plants identified carrying CYP82E4v2 mutations are homozygous for the mutant allele see Table 6 . All eleven mutations result in changes in the predicted amino acid sequence of the encoded protein.

Plant 775 possesses a mutation at codon 329 which changes a tryptophan codon TGG into a premature stop codon TAG . This mutation renders the encoded protein completely nonfunctional given that the essential heme binding domain and other highly conserved regions of the enzyme are located downstream of codon 329. Other plants contain mutations affecting highly conserved motifs shared by the vast majority of P450 enzymes include plant 101 where a conserved Pro residue immediately adjacent to the heme binding Cys amino acid is change to a Ser plant 164 Pro residue within the highly conserved Pro rich hinge region of the protein changed to a Leu and plant 569 Gly residue that s part of the very highly conserved heme binding motif changed to an Arg .

An alkaloid analysis was conducted on cured leaves of variant individuals to assess the effect of the mutation on the metabolic conversion of nicotine to nornicotine. As shown in Table 7 three individuals 101 121 and 775 show conversion rates similar to nonconverter control plants grown from seed lots that had been screened to eliminate converter individuals TN90 LC plants . The variant CYP82E4v2 enzymes produced in these plants are completely or nearly completely nonfunctional. Two plants 164 and 761 display high conversion rates and have no detrimental effect on enzyme activity. This result for plant 164 is surprising given that it contains a Pro to Leu mutation within one of the residues defining the highly conserved Pro rich hinge motif. The Val to Met modification at residue 376 partially inhibits enzyme function as the homozygous mutant plant 610 shows an intermediate conversion phenotype 41.5 .

The substitution of the Lys residue at position 364 to an Asn of plant 121 within this plant does not occur in any motif conserved among P450 enzymes nor within any region predicted by Xu et al. 129 307 319 2007 to be a substrate recognition site. A BLAST alignment against protein sequences deposited in GenBank reveals several P450s that possess an Asn residue at the analagous position e.g. the CYP82A1 gene of Pea accession number Q43068 . The variant CYP82E4v2 gene in plant 121 is completely inactive. Another anomaly with plant 121 lies in the nature of EMS induced mutations. EMS is known to induce mutations through the alkylation of G residues resulting in G to A or C to T transition mutations Anderson 48 31 58 1995 . Very rarely does EMS lead to a G to T transversion mutation such as that found in plant 121 see Table 3 . All other mutations described for either the CYP82E4v2 or CYP82E5v2 genes are the expected G to A or C to T transition mutations.

A similar high throughput sequencing strategy was used to identify mutations in CYP82E5v2 the other confirmed nicotine N demethylase gene that is found within the tobacco genome. A screen of 768 Mplants revealed 11 individuals possessing mutations in CYP82E5v2 see Table 8 . Three plants 744 561 and 340 contain silent nucleotide substitutions that did not alter the predicted protein sequence. Of the eight mutations that lead to changes in the protein sequence two are of particular note. Plant 1013 contains a mutation that would lead to a truncated product that should render the product completely nonfunctional. The G to A mutation at position 1266 changes a Trp codon TGG into a premature stop codon TGA . The predicted CYP82E5v2 protein produced from this truncated reading frame lacks the final 96 amino acids of the enzyme a region that includes the essential heme binding domain. Without being limited by mechanism this truncated protein is probably incapable of catalyzing the oxidative elimination of the N methyl group of nicotine to form nornicotine. Whatever the mechanism the 1013 plant has a nonfunctional CYP82E5v2 allele. Plant 680 possesses a mutation that changes a Pro residue at position 449 to a Leu. This Pro is well conserved in plant P450s and lies immediately adjacent to the F x x G x R x C x G motif that defines the heme binding region. The mutation found in plant 680 has a negative impact on enzyme function.

Tobacco plant lines are generated that show uniformity and stability within the limits of environmental influence for reduced conversion of nicotine to nornicotine at levels of about 0.5 when a plant with a mutation that inhibits nicotine demethylase activity of CYP82E4v2 is crossed with a plant having a mutation that inhibits nicotine demethylase activity of CYP82E5v2.

An illustrative cross is between a CYP82E4v2 mutant plant of Table 9 and a CYP82E5v2 mutant plant of Table 9 .

All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

