---

title: Telecommunications subscriber profile management system
abstract: A telecommunications subscriber profile management method for a telecommunications subscriber profile management system including a customer service representative (“CSR”) terminal. The terminal presents subscriber profile data in a common user interface format. The terminal receives input in a common format, the input representing commands for management of said subscriber profile data. The system includes at least two disparate network elements, each element having a common function. Each of the elements for stores respective portions of subscriber profile data, in disparate formats. The method preferably includes: (i) connecting to the customer service representative terminal; (i) interfacing with each of the disparate network elements; (iii) collecting, routing, and formatting data exchanges between the terminal and the network elements; and (iv) configuring the subscriber profile data in a common format for the terminal while respective portions of the subscriber profile data are configured for storage in disparate formats respective to each the network element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899454&OS=07899454&RS=07899454
owner: Redknee Inc.
number: 07899454
owner_city: Mississauga
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20080111
---
This is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 638 377 allowed filed Aug. 12 2003 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

It has been long documented in the art that graphical user interfaces GUIs provide certain and considerable advantages in the operation of computer and other logically based media. However we submit that nothing within the state of the art particularly intimates or otherwise suggests of a telecommunications subscriber profile management system as that detailed herein seeking the protection of Letters Patent. Indeed implemented as part of a computer program product the invention herein presents in the preferred embodiment a common graphical user interface to telecommunications network administrators or customer service representatives and like personnel who ordinarily manage telecommunication s subscriber profiles where said relevant core network equipment may have been acquired from disparate vendors and or where such networks may have recently consolidated otherwise disparate operations.

The present invention relates generally to telecommunications management systems and in particular to a method and system for performing subscriber management transactions queries and functions across multi vendor telecommunications network elements environments.

Implemented as part of a computer program product the invention herein presents in the preferred embodiment a common graphical user interface to telecommunications network administrators or customer service representatives CSRs and like personnel who ordinarily manage telecommunication s subscriber profiles where said relevant core network equipment may have been acquired from disparate vendors and or where such networks may have recently consolidated otherwise disparate operations.

Often the CSR and or telecommunications network administrator requires certain information to input the appropriate command s when performing a specified task however these commands are not universal across multi vendor telecommunications network elements as Home Location Registers HLRs and other multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature. Indeed ergo concordantly in advancing the art it will be recognized that the lack of a unified interface to multiple multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature increases the level of sophistication required in its manipulation and ultimately reduces and lessens the efficacy of customer service capabilities and operations.

Specialized logical commands pertinent to the relevant network element which ordinarily stores user profiles and data of comparable nature are abstracted such that the user interacts with a single web GUI for all such multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature as HLRs . The computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system determines the appropriate commands to send and which network element to send them to. For instance the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system enables and provides a unified smooth interface into a plurality of HLRs for instance and also into a plurality of Application Location Registers ALRs for HLR queries among other such multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature. The computer program product which implements the invention exploits several internal databases to enable it to identify the multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature for instance the HLR of particular subscribers and the prepaid settings appropriate for particular prepaid subscribers as applicable . Another manifestation of the invention provides a secure repository for information objects associated with a plurality of subscribers which can be accessed modified and or uploaded to external entities or other such mechanisms vis a vis the relevant articulated interface.

With reference now to the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system provides a unified interface into multi vendor Home Location Registers HLRs Application Location Registers ALRs for HLR queries and other telecommunications network elements which ordinarily store user profiles and data of comparable nature. In the preferred embodiment the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system provides a web based User Interface UI that enables network administrators to easily manage users and for customer service representatives CSRs to manage subscriber profiles. In alternate embodiments the UI may be implemented through any combination of Braille auditory commands and like features for the visually impaired such technologies remain well documented in the art .

The invention of present employs several internal databases B contains the rules C transaction database D secure repository for information objects associated with a plurality of subscribers including SIM information to enable it to identify the relevant network element s associated with particular subscribers and the appropriate subscriber service settings. The computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system functionally and mechanically integrates with multi vendor network elements for rapid seamless single entry point for subscriber management queries to the HLRs ALRs and other multi vendor elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature.

So now in the preferred embodiment once logged into the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system network administrators and like personnel are able to access specific information depending on their access level as defined by state of the art security authentication and permissions technology . Queries from network administrators and like personnel are collected by the invention and routed A to the correct HLR by the appropriate articulated interface A A and or A respectively or other such multi vendor telecommunications network elements by their appropriate client interfaces A and or A respectively which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature. Reponses from the HLR and other such multi vendor telecommunications network elements which may store user profiles and data of comparable nature are sent back to the computer program product which implements the invention and finally back to the network administrator. Collecting routing and formatting A of the data is all performed by the logic of the invention.

In alternate embodiments the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system may also provide an interface to the Provisioning Database PDB . The computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system uses the interface to Query and update the network element identifier associated with a MSISDN or alternative subscriber identifier which is then displayed in the user interface of the invention. The PDB interface articulated with the invention provides capabilities as retrieve subscription Query create subscription update subscription and delete subscription. The computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system maintains a mapping table that associates the network address for example a SS7 point code to a configurable alphanumeric network element identifier. The invention s PDB interface uses the network address of the network elements for example Home Location Registers in communications with the PDB however the invention displays the alphanumeric value of the network elements in the user interface.

Returning with reference to in the preferred embodiment every transaction processed by the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system will be logged and a Transaction ID number will be assigned to it for purposes of convenience. All logs will be captured into the invention s transaction database C. Once stored such data remains accessible by network administrators and like personnel for a configurable time period. After which time in the alternate embodiment the database entry will be placed into a computer readable file format or like logical media for upload and transmission to an off board storage database. During the time the information is accessible by network administrators and like personnel the data can be retrieved through multiple level querying on any of the stored parameters. Furthermore in alternate embodiments since the Transaction ID may contain the time of the action parameters of the query can be time based in furtherance of the art.

Continuing with the preferred embodiments the computer program product which implements the telecommunications subscriber profile management system has been articulated to include a database D which stores and remains a repository for the requisite subscriber terminal and service information for example SIM information . Said database will be propagated in the preferred embodiment through downloads of information as well as updates via interfaces to a network operators provisioning infrastructure and man machine interfaces as the case may be.

In the specific embodiment whereby SIM information is stored in the database D subscriber information includes IMSI ICCID KI and the DES encryption key identifier transport key although practitioners skilled in the art will recognize that the list remains non limiting and only bound by the state of the art . The DES key also known as the transport key will be the same for an entire batch of SIMs. The IMSI is a fifteen 15 digit subscriber identity number. The ICCID is a twenty 20 digit number usually printed on the relevant SIM card according to modern manufacturing protocols . In alternate embodiments where less then twenty 20 numbers are entered the filler F will be placed at the end. The Ki is a thirty two 32 alphanumeric key.

Information in the database is accessible by specified network administrators and like personnel through querying and reporting. The principal administrator sets access privileges to the other personnel user levels. In recognizing the sensitivity and secrecy of much of this information access in the real time working embodiment need be closely controlled. Queries can be performed on IMSI ICCID or DES key. In the preferred embodiment since database information remains unchangeable once loaded only read access is allowed to the database D. In alternate embodiments the ability to write certain information to said SIM database D may be articulated as per matters of national security and members entitled to enforce the interests of the State and or Her Majesty s dominion.

Another manifestation of the invention provides a secure repository D for information objects associated with a plurality of subscribers. The information objects can be retrieved stored or modified via an Application Programming Interface API A at which will include a number of parameters including but not limited to the a subscriber identifier for example a MSISDN and a transaction identifier. The purpose of the transaction identifier being to uniquely correlate a given request with other messages which may be received asynchronously including but not limited to a confirmation response. Practitioners skilled in the art shall recognize that a variety of object oriented application programming interfaces e.g. Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA or Extensible Markup Language XML may be used. Practitioners skilled in the art will recognize the information objects which may be retrieved by a given application may be used to modify or optimize a given service or capability to the subscriber s preferences as implicitly or explicitly prescribed via the information objects associated with a given subscriber.

The information objects associated with a given subscriber include but are not limited to information pertinent a given subscriber s preferences and or payment information information and parametric attributes associated with the services or capabilities subscribed to or potentially subscribed to by a given subscriber parametric attributes associated with the subscriber s mobile device s application level data associated with a given subscriber s service as well as alternate identifiers or aliases associated with a given subscriber. The art and teachings related to subscriber s SIM information has already been elucidated erstwhile.

To the extent that information exists in an existing multiple multi vendor element an optional manifestation of the invention relates to where and how to retrieve said information. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a number of interconnection protocols and interfaces may be utilized to access the plurality of multi vendor network elements without diluting the intent and scope of the present invention. Not shown are the protocol and interface adaptors and communications links which would provide the physical and logical connectivity for the purpose of establishing connectivity to the plurality of network elements.

The invention may act as a temporary repository or cache whereby information retrieved from a network element may be stored for a configurable period of time in the invention s internal database. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that the nature and functionality associated with the cache including which information is cached and for what duration would be configurable.

Members skilled in the art will recognize that the aforegoing represents an illustrative recital of the preferred embodiments of the invention of present and other embodiments may be articulated gleaned and articulated from such while still remaining with in its spirit and scope. Indeed equivalents found within the state of the art and those which may reasonably and effectively be deemed equivalent in the future should also be understood as being incorporated by reference hereto and such. Furthermore much of the language has been illustrative and is to be construed as expressly for pedagogical purposes in helping elucidate the art as concisely and beneficially as practical.

