---

title: Cre-lox based gene knockdown constructs and methods of use thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to vectors, compositions and methods for conditional, Cre-lox regulated, RNA interference. The vectors allow for spatial and temporal control of miRNA expression in vivo.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043994&OS=09043994&RS=09043994
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 09043994
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080312
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 906 511 filed Mar. 13 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 935 154 filed Jul. 27 2007 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under grant number U54 CA112967 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to improved vectors and their use in a cre lox based method for conditional RNA interference.

RNA interference RNAi is an extremely versatile tool for inhibition of gene expression. RNAi is based on the introduction of double stranded RNA dsRNA molecules into cells whereby one strand is complementary to the coding region of a target gene. Through pairing of the specific mRNA with the introduced RNA molecule the mRNA is degraded by a cellular mechanism. Short 30 bp interfering RNA duplexes siRNA have been shown to be effective and do not provoke an immune response extending the application to mammalian cells. Small hairpin RNAs shRNAs transcribed in vivo are able to trigger degradation of corresponding mRNAs similar to the siRNAs. Micro RNAs miRNAs are the endogenous form of shRNAs that carry out the gene silencing function in vivo.

shRNA expression has been accomplished using gene expression vectors with RNA polymerase III Pol III or Polymerase II Pol II promoters with expression occurring in mice injected with the shRNA expression vectors however gene inhibition was temporally and spatially restricted. Moreover stable integration of the construct is not readily accomplished or validated in current systems.

In one embodiment the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the wildtype sequence and in another embodiment the second pair of loxP sequences comprises a mutated loxP. In one embodiment the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 5171 sequence and in another embodiment the second pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 2272 sequence.

In one embodiment the first nucleic acid encodes two selectable markers fused in frame with respect to each other which in one embodiment comprise a first antibiotic resistance cassette fused in frame to a sequence encoding a cell surface marker which in one embodiment is a c terminal sequence encoding a Foot and mouth disease virus FMDV 2A peptide. In one embodiment the two selectable markers localize to different cellular compartments when expressed.

In another embodiment the vector comprises a promoter operatively linked to the first nucleic acid and in one embodiment the promoter is tissue specific or in another embodiment the promoter is inducible.

In one embodiment the miRNA agent is an shRNA. In one embodiment the miRNA specifically inactivates p53 gene expression or PTEN gene expression or a combination thereof. In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the vector comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to or homolgous to SEQ ID Nos 22 23 25 26 or 27.

In another embodiment the miRNA specifically inactivates 4 integrin gene expression and in one embodiment comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to or homolgous to SEQ ID NO 2 or in another embodiment the vector has a nucleotide sequence corresponding to or homologous to SEQ ID NO 8

In one embodiment the second nucleic acid further comprises an oncogene fused in frame to the miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation. In another embodiment the vector has a nucleotide sequence corresponding to or homolgous to SEQ ID NO 21.

In another embodiment the vector further comprises a first regulatory sequence operationally linked to the first nucleic acid and being in an antisense orientation which in one embodiment is a UbiquitinC promoter sequence. In another embodiment the vector further comprises a second regulatory sequence located 5 to said first regulatory sequence wherein the second regulatory sequence is in a sense orientation. In another embodiment the vector further comprises a Bovine Growth Hormone polyadenylation signal positioned 3 to said second pair of loxP sites. In another embodiment the vector further comprises a modified U3 LTR positioned 5 to the polyadenylation signal.

In another embodiment the vector further comprises a second miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation fused to the miRNA sequence of interest. In one embodiment the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity is cooperative with that of a gene modulated by the first miRNA sequence of interest. In another embodiment the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity antagonizes that of a gene modulated by said first miRNA sequence of interest. In another embodiment the vector further comprises a third nucleic acid in antisense orientation positioned between said first pair of loxP sequences wherein said third nucleic acid encodes a protein of interest. In one embodiment the first miRNA sequence of interest specifically interacts with a sequence encoding said protein of interest or a homologue thereof. In another embodiment the vector may be expressed in a mammalian host and the homologue thereof is an endogenous protein in the host which in one embodiment is associated with a disease or disorder in said host.

In one embodiment the miRNA sequence of interest is flanked by restriction endonuclease sites which are flanked by splice donor and splice acceptor sequences. In one embodiment the miRNA specifically inactivates firefly luciferase gene expression and in one embodiment comprises a sequence corresponding to or homolgous to SEQ ID NO 1. In one embodiment the vector comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to SEQ ID NO 3.

In one embodiment this invention provides a composition or cell comprising a vector of this invention. In one embodiment this invention provides a kit comprising a vector of this invention.

In one embodiment the vector in the kits of this invention comprise an miRNA sequence of interest flanked by restriction endonuclease sites which are flanked by splice donor and splice acceptor sequences. In one embodiment according to this aspect the miRNA specifically inactivates firefly luciferase gene expression. In one embodiment the miRNA comprises a sequence corresponding to or homolgous to SEQ ID NO 1 or in one embodiment the vector comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to SEQ ID NO 3. In one embodiment according to this aspect the kit further comprises restriction endonucleases which are capable of specifically cleaving such sites.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of producing an animal genetically inactivated for a coding sequence the method comprising 

In one embodiment the second selectable marker is expressed in a plurality of cells of said animal following Cre mediated recombination or in another embodiment the first selectable marker is lost in a plurality of cells of said animal following Cre mediated recombination. In another embodiment Cre mediated recombination is tissue specific in said animal.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence in a target cell the method comprising contacting the target cell with a vector comprising 

In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the cell is engineered to express a Cre recombinase or in another embodiment the cell endogenously expresses a Cre recombinase. In one embodiment the target cell is contacted with said vector in vivo in vitro or ex vivo and in one embodiment contact is in vivo and the Cre recombinase is expressed at specific times during development.

In one embodiment the miRNA specifically inactivates firefly luciferase gene expression and the method further comprises excising said miRNA which specifically inactivates firefly luciferase gene expression and inserting a second miRNA which specifically inactivates a gene of interest.

In another embodiment the vector further comprises a second miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation fused to the miRNA sequence of interest. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity is cooperative with that of a gene modulated by said first miRNA sequence of interest or in another embodiment the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity antagonizes that of a gene modulated by the first miRNA sequence of interest. In one embodiment the first and second miRNA sequence of interest regulate expression of a tumor suppressor.

In another embodiment the vector further comprises a third nucleic acid in antisense orientation positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences wherein said third nucleic acid encodes a protein of interest. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the third nucleic acid encodes an oncogene.

According to this aspect and in another embodiment the first miRNA sequence of interest specifically interacts with a sequence encoding an endogenous form of the protein of interest and in one embodiment the endogenous form is associated with a disease or disorder in the host.

In another embodiment this invention provides a non human animal with reduced expression of a coding sequence wherein reduced expression is produced according to a method of this invention.

In another embodiment this invention provides a mammalian cell with reduced expression of a coding sequence wherein reduced expression is produced according to a method of this invention.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of assessing neoplasia in an animal model said method comprising 

In some embodiments the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the wildtype sequence and in some embodiments the second pair of loxP sequences comprises a mutated loxP. In some embodiments the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 5171 sequence and in some embodiments the second pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 2272 sequence.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a first regulatory sequence operatively linked to said second nucleic acid and said regulatory sequence is in antisense orientation and in some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is a UbiquitinC promoter sequence. In some embodiments the vector further comprises a second regulatory sequence located 5 to said first regulatory sequence wherein said second regulatory sequence is in sense orientation.

In some embodiments the vector further comprises a Bovine Growth Hormone polyadenylation signal positioned 3 to said second pair of loxP sites and in some embodiments the vector further comprises a modified U3 LTR positioned 5 to said polyadenylation signal. In some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is tissue specific or in some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is inducible.

In some embodiments the vector further comprises a second miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation fused to the miRNA sequence of interest. In some embodiments the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity is cooperative with that of a gene modulated by said first miRNA sequence of interest. In some embodiments the first and second miRNA sequence of interest regulate expression of a tumor suppressor.

In some embodiments the first miRNA sequence of interest specifically inactivates one of p53 or PTEN gene expression and said second miRNA sequence of interest specifically inactivates the other.

In some embodiments the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity antagonizes that of a gene modulated by said the miRNA sequence of interest.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a third nucleic acid in antisense orientation positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences wherein the third nucleic acid encodes a protein of interest.

In some embodiments the third nucleic acid encodes an miRNA specifically inactivating a tumor suppressor.

In some embodiments the third nucleic acid encodes an miRNA specifically inactivating p53 PTEN or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a nucleic acid sequence corresponding to or homologous to SEQ ID NO 21.

The present invention provides in one embodiment constructs and enhanced methods for conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence in a cell or animal comprising contacting the cell with a vector comprising a first selectable marker in sense orientation and a second selectable marker fused in frame to an miRNA sequence in antisense orientation wherein the miRNA sequence is flanked by splice donor and acceptor sequences and wherein the marker sequences are flanked by two pairs of loxP sites which sites are initially inverted in orientation in cells capable of expressing a Cre recombinase.

Conditionally reduced expression of a coding sequence was demonstrated herein with the use of a retroviral vector pLB2 which comprises in some embodiments a first pair of loxP sequences inverted in orientation with respect to each other a first nucleic acid encoding a first selectable marker in sense orientation wherein the first nucleic acid is positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences a second nucleic acid encoding a second selectable marker fused in frame to an miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation wherein the second nucleic acid is positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences and the second nucleic acid is 3 with regard to the first nucleic acid a second pair of loxP sequences inverted in orientation with respect to each other. The first loxP sequence of the second pair is positioned between the first and second nucleic acid and the second loxP sequence of the second pair is positioned 3 with respect to the first pair of loxP sequences and the second pair of loxP sequences differs from that of said first pair of loxP sequences. In addition the miRNA sequence of interest is flanked by splice donor and acceptor sites to comprise an artificial intron.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence in a target cell said method comprising contacting said target cell with a vector comprising contacting the target cell with a vector comprising 

In one embodiment the term vector refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. In one embodiment the vector is a genomic integrated vector or integrated vector which can become integrated into the chromsomal DNA of the host cell. In another embodiment the vector is an episomal vector i.e. a nucleic acid capable of extra chromosomal replication in an appropriate host such as for example a eukaryotic host cell. The vector according to this aspect of the present invention may be in other embodiments a plasmid a bacmid a phagemid a cosmid a phage a virus or an artificial chromosome.

A nucleic acid of the present invention will generally contain phosphodiester bonds in one embodiment or in another embodiment nucleic acid analogs are included that may have alternate backbones comprising for example phosphoramide Beaucage et al. Tetrahedron 49 10 1925 1993 and references therein Letsinger J. Org. Chem. 35 3800 1970 Sprinzl et al. Eur. J. Biochem. 81 579 1977 Letsinger et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 14 3487 1986 Sawai et al Chem. Lett. 805 1984 Letsinger et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 110 4470 1988 and Pauwels et al. Chemica Scripta 26 141 91986 phosphorothioate phosphorodithioate O methylphosphoroamidite linkages see Eckstein Oligonucleotides and Analogues A Practical Approach Oxford University Press and peptide nucleic acid backbones and linkages see Egholm J. Am. Chem. Soc. 114 1895 1992 Meier et al. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 31 1008 1992 Nielsen Nature 365 566 1993 Carlsson et al. Nature 380 207 1996 all of which are incorporated by reference . These modifications of the ribose phosphate backbone or bases may be done to facilitate the addition of other moieties such as chemical constituents including 2 O methyl and 5 modified substituents or to increase the stability and half life of such molecules in physiological environments.

The nucleic acids may be single stranded or double stranded or contain portions of both double stranded or single stranded sequence. The nucleic acid may be DNA both genomic and cDNA RNA or a hybrid where the nucleic acid contains any combination of deoxyribo and ribo nucleotides and any combination of bases including uracil adenine thymine cytosine guanine inosine xathanine and hypoxathanine etc. Thus for example chimeric DNA RNA molecules may be used such as described in Cole Strauss et al. Science 273 1386 1996 and Yoon et al. PNAS USA 93 2071 1996 .

The term miRNA agent refers in one embodiment to an agent that modulates expression of a target gene by an RNA interference mechanism. Micro RNAs are a very large group of small RNAs produced naturally in organisms which in one embodiment regulates the expression of target genes. Founding members of the micro RNA family are let 7 and lin 4. The let 7 gene encodes a small highly conserved RNA species that regulates the expression of endogenous protein coding genes during worm development. The active RNA species is transcribed initially as an 70 nt precursor which is post transcriptionally processed into a mature 21 nt form. Both let 7 and lin 4 are transcribed as hairpin RNA precursors which are processed to their mature forms by Dicer enzyme.

In one embodiment the miRNA agent comprises double stranded RNA which can form a hairpin structure. The miRNA agents employed in another embodiment are small ribonucleic acid molecules or oligoribonucleotides that are present in duplex structures such as in one embodiment two distinct oligoribonucleotides hybridized to each other or in another embodiment a single ribooligonucleotide that assumes a hairpin structure to produce a duplex structure.

In one embodiment miRNA agent does not exceed about 100 nt in length and typically does not exceed about 75 nt length where the length in certain embodiments is less than about 70 nt. In one embodiment the miRNA agent of this invention has a length about 15 to 40 bp or in another embodiment about 20 and 29 bps or in another embodiment 25 and 35 bps or in another embodiment about 20 and 35 bps or in another embodiment about 20 and 40 bps or in another embodiment 21 bp or in another embodiment 22 bp.

In one embodiment the nucleic acids oligonucleotides comprising the miRNA agent may be synthesized on an Applied Bio Systems oligonucleotide synthesizer according to specifications provided by the manufacturer. In another embodiment the nucleic acids oligonucleotides or modified oligonucleotides may be synthesized by any number of means as is generally known in the art and as is described hereinbelow.

In one embodiment the miRNA agent encodes an interfering ribonucleic acid. In one embodiment the miRNA agent is a transcriptional template of the interfering ribonucleic acid. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the transcriptional template is typically a DNA that encodes the interfering ribonucleic acid. The DNA may be present in a vector such as and in one embodiment a plasmid vector or in another embodiment a viral vector or any other vector as will be known to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the term coding sequence refers to a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a particular polypeptide or peptide. In one embodiment the coding sequence is a nucleic acid sequence that is transcribed in the case of DNA and is translated in the case of mRNA into a polypeptide in vitro or in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the 5 amino terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3 carboxy terminus. A coding sequence can include but is not limited to cDNA from procaryotic or eukaryotic mRNA genomic DNA sequences from procaryotic or eukaryotic DNA and even synthetic DNA sequences. A transcription termination sequence will usually be located 3 to the coding sequence.

In one embodiment the term coding sequence includes DNA sequences that encode a polypeptide as well as DNA sequences that are transcribed into inhibitory antisense molecules.

In one embodiment the term reducing expression as it refers to vectors and their use according to the methods of this invention refers to a diminishment in the level of expression of a gene when compared to the level in the absence of the miRNA agent.

In one embodiment reduced expression may be affected at the transcriptional or translational level or a combination thereof. In one embodiment this invention provides vectors and methods for greater reduction of expression of a coding sequence as a consequence of greater expression of the miRNA sequence greater stability of the miRNA sequence or a combination thereof.

According to this aspect of the invention reduced expression using the vectors and or according to the methods of this invention is specific. In one embodiment the reduction in expression is via an ability to inhibit a target gene without manifest effects on other genes of the cell. The consequences of inhibition can be confirmed in other embodiments by examination of the outward properties of the cell or organism or by biochemical techniques such as RNA solution hybridization nuclease protection Northern hybridization gene expression monitoring with a microarray antibody binding enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA Western blotting radioimmunoassay RIA other immunoassays and fluorescence activated cell analysis FACS .

In one embodiment the miRNA agent is an shRNA which specifically inactivates p53 alpha 4 integrins or others as exemplified and described herein.

In one embodiment the vectors and methods of utilizing the same for reducing expression of a target gene may result in inhibition of target gene expression of greater than 10 33 50 75 80 85 90 95 or 99 as compared to a cell subjected to a vector as herein described.

It is to be understood that the term vector refers to any vector as herein described or any variation thereof comprising an element of such a vector as herein described as will be appreciated to one skilled in the art. For example and in some embodiments the term vector may be considered to comprise a pLB pLB2 MSCV or pFLIP vector or components thereof.

In one embodiment this invention provides for a method of conditionally reduced expression of a coding sequence in a target cell. In one embodiment the term conditionally reduced expression refers to the flexibility inherent in the methods vectors of this invention which enable regulation of reducing expression of a coding sequence in a target cell. In one embodiment reducing expression via the vectors methods of this invention is controlled over time or in a cell or tissue specific manner such that production of the miRNA agent is not constant.

Expression of the miRNA agent within a target cell in one embodiment of this invention takes advantage of a lox cre system. In one embodiment miRNA agent expression is dependent upon the presence of a Cre recombinase. According to this aspect of the invention Cre recombinase inverts the second nucleic acid from antisense to sense orientation such that a functional miRNA agent is expressed and whereby splicing of the miRNA occurs uncoupling miRNA from reporter expression in some embodiments.

In one embodiment the cre recombinase is derived from a P1 bacteriophage Abremski and Hoess J. Biol. Chem. 259 3 1509 1514 1984 which acts on a specific 34 base pair DNA sequence known as loxP locus of crossover which is in turn comprised of two 13 base pair inverted repeats serving as the recombinase binding sites flanking an 8 base pair core sequence Current Opinion in Biotechnology 5 521 527 1994 . Cre catalyzes the rearrangement of DNA sequences that contain loxP sites. Recombination between two loxP sites catalyzed by the cre protein causes in certain cases the loss of sequences flanked by these sites for a review see N. Kilby et al Trends Genet. 9 413 421 1993 .

In one embodiment the cre recombinase is expressed in hematopoietic cells for example as described in Zhang C C et al. Nat. Med. 2006 February 12 2 240 5. In some embodiments Cre is estrogen or estrogen agonist or antagonist induced for example as described in Hayashi S McMahon AP. Dev Biol. 2002 Apr. 15 244 2 305 18. It is to be understood that any Cre Recombinase or other appropriate recombinase which can generate the desired expressed products of the vectors of this invention are to be considered a part of this invention.

In some embodiments this invention utilizes two sets of loxP sites whose sequences differ. In one embodiment one pair of the loxP sites may be WT while the other may be mutated or in another embodiment both are mutated.

In one embodiment mutated loxP sites inclusive of any known in the art or homologues thereof may be employed in the constructs materials and or methods of this invention for example mutant sequences exemplified by loxP2272 loxP5171 loxP2271 loxP3171 loxP5272 or loxP5372 as described in Lee et al. Gene 216 55 65 1998 .

In one embodiment the loxP sets are oriented initially with inverted orientation such that regions of the vector undergo inversion following exposure to a Cre recombinase. Following such inversion one of the pairs of loxP sites are co aligned thus in the presence of a Cre recombinase excision can occur.

In one embodiment the two pairs of loxP sites are chosen so as to minimize recombination therebetween as exemplified herein.

Cre works in simple buffers such as in one embodiment with magnesium or in another embodiment spermidine as a cofactor as is well known in the art. The DNA substrates acted on by Cre may be in one embodiment in linear or in another embodiment in a supercoiled configuration.

In one embodiment the Cre sequence is as that described in N. Sternberg et al J. Mol. Biol. 187 197 212 1986 . In another embodiment the Cre recombinase may be obtained from commercial sources for example from Novagen Catalog No. 69247 1 .

In one embodiment cre recombinase will be expressed in a target cell of this invention. In another embodiment the target cell will be engineered to express Cre by any means as will be known to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the terms homology homologue or homologous refer to a which exhibits in one embodiment at least 70 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 72 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 75 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 80 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 82 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 85 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 87 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 90 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 92 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 95 or more correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 97 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits at least 99 correspondence with the indicated sequence. In another embodiment the sequence exhibits 95 100 correspondence with the indicated sequence. Similarly as used herein the reference to a correspondence to a particular sequence includes both direct correspondence as well as homology to that sequence as herein defined.

Homology as used herein may refer to sequence identity or may refer to structural identity or functional identity. By using the term homology and other like forms it is to be understood that any molecule that functions similarly and or contains sequence identity and or is conserved structurally so that it approximates the reference sequence is to be considered as part of this invention. Homology may be determined in the latter case by computer algorithm for sequence alignment by methods well described in the art. For example computer algorithm analysis of nucleic acid sequence homology may include the utilization of any number of software packages available such as for example the BLAST DOMAIN BEAUTY BLAST Enhanced Alignment Utility GENPEPT and TREMBL packages.

An additional means of determining homology is via determination of candidate sequence hybridization methods of which are well described in the art See for example Nucleic Acid Hybridization Hames and Higgins Eds. 1985 Molecular Cloning Sambrook and Russell eds. 2001 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Ausubel et al. eds 1989 . For example methods of hybridization may be in one embodiment carried out under moderate to stringent conditions to the complement of a DNA encoding a native peptide or protein of interest. Hybridization conditions may be for example overnight incubation at 42 C. in a solution comprising 10 20 formamide 5 SSC 150 millimolar mM NaCl 15 mM trisodium citrate 50 mM sodium phosphate pH 7.6 5 Denhardt s solution 10 dextran sulfate and 20 micrograms g milliliter ml denatured sheared salmon sperm DNA. Each method represents a separate embodiment of the present invention. In some embodiments this invention provides a nucleic acid or a vector or composition or cell comprising the same with a sequence corresponding to or homologous to any of those set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 27.

In another embodiment mutated loxP sites may be employed in the vectors and or methods of this invention.

In one embodiment of this invention a modified pLB vector was constructed resulting in greater expression the vector being schematically depicted in and referred to herein as pLB2.

In this embodiment of the modified vector pLB2 the promoter driving the RNA genome was derived from. The packaging signal Psi central polypurine tract cPPT antirepressor Element 40 and scaffold attached region SAR were similar to those used in previously described pLB vectors representing one embodiment of the invention.

In one embodiment the pLB2 has an internal Ubiquitin C promoter driving expression of the FLIP cassette. The FLIP cassette maintains GFP miR30 or other miR30 fused sequences as herein described in the antisense orientation until reversed by Cre activity.

In some embodiments pLB2 comprises a modified 3 LTR as well. In some embodiments such modification comprises deletions of the U3 to produce self inactivating vectors SIN . In some embodiments pLB2 will comprise from 200 to a 420 nucleotide deletion or in some embodiments up to the minimum required for integration 25 nt and another 20 nt that significantly improved polyadenylation of the integrated viral transcript.

In some embodiments pLB2 will comprise a Bovine Growth Hormone Polyadenylation signal. In another embodiment the Bovine Growth Hormone polyadenylation signal is positioned 3 to the second pair of loxP sites.

In some embodiments of this invention pLB2 or the vectors compositions kits of this invention comprise and methods make use of splice donor and splice acceptor sequences flanking at least one miR30 such that the miR30 is contained within an artificial intron.

In some embodiments such introns may comprise any known in the art whose use herein results in enhanced miR30 expression following Cre exposure. In some embodiments a consensus sequence is utilized as herein described. In some embodiments splice donor and acceptor sequences are optimized to yield the greatest fold reduction in gene expression.

In some embodiments the intron may comprise or be derived from the 2.0 kb LAT of Herpes Simplex Virus type I HSV 1 strain 17. The sequence of this LAT is reported in McGeoch et al 1988 J. Gen. Virol. 69 1531 1574 the sequence of the 2.0 kb LAT of HSV 1 strain F is reported in Spivak et al 1991 J. Virol. 65 6800 6810 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

In some embodiments the splice donor sequence is located 5 to the miR30 in the constructs of this invention may span from about 2 to about 25 nucleotides and the splice acceptor sequence located 3 to the miR30 in the constructs of this invention may span from about 2 to about 25 nucleotides. Corresponding sequences may be obtained from other introns by conventional methods which follow the teachings herein.

In some embodiments the miR30 will be flanked by restriction endonuclease sites which in turn are flanked by the splice donor and splice acceptor sequences respectively. In some embodiments such restriction endonuclease sites allow for the ready exchange of miR30 sequences in a given vector construct of this invention.

In some embodiments the constructs kits compositions of this invention may comprise and methods make use of the same whereby such constructs comprise one or more introns or hybrids thereof. In one embodiment multiple miR30s may be flanked by multiple introns and attached in tandem or in some embodiments an intron may be optimized derived from two or more native introns whereby expression for a particular tissue or sequence is optimally derived.

In some embodiments the term intron as used herein refers to a non coding nucleotide sequence of varying length normally present within many eukaryotic genes which is removed from a newly transcribed mRNA precursor by the process of splicing. In general the process of splicing requires that the 5 and 3 ends of the intron be correctly cleaved and the resulting ends of the mRNA be accurately joined such that a mature mRNA having the proper reading frame for protein synthesis is produced.

Introns have highly conserved sequences at or near each end of the intron which are required for splicing and intron removal. In some embodiments the term splice donor site or SD or 5 splice site refers to the conserved sequence immediately surrounding the exon intron boundary at the 5 end of the intron where the exon comprises the nucleic acid 5 to the intron. In some embodiments the term splice acceptor site or SA or 3 splice site herein refers to the sequence immediately surrounding the intron exon boundary at the 3 end of the intron where the exon comprises the nucleic acid 3 to the intron. In some embodiments the term intron refers to a nucleic acid comprising a splice donor site and a splice acceptor site including intervening sequences such as an miRNA as herein described and the presence of restriction endonuclease sites. Many splice donor and splice acceptor sites have been characterized and Ohshima et al. J. Mol. Biol. 195 247 259 1987 provides a review of these. Examples of efficient splice donor sequences include the wild type WT ras splice donor sequence and the GAC GTAAGT SEQ ID NO 12 sequence. In some embodiments the splice donor site is a consensus splice donor sequence and in some embodiments the splice acceptor site is a consensus splice acceptor sequence these consensus sequences are evolutionarily highly conserved. The consensus sequences for both splice donor and splice acceptor sites in the mRNAs of higher eukaryotes are shown in Molecular Biology of the Cell 3.sup.rd edition. Alberts et al. eds. Garland Publishing Inc. New York 1994 on page 373 . The consensus sequence for the 5 splice donor site is C A C or A AG GUAAGU wherein the colon denotes the site of cleavage and ligation SEQ ID NO 13 . The 3 splice acceptor site occurs within the consensus sequence U C .sub.11NCAG G SEQ ID NO 14 . Other efficient splice donor and acceptor sequences can be readily determined using the techniques for measuring the efficiency of splicing.

In some embodiments such introns used in the vectors kits compositions methods of this invention provide a splicing efficiency of at least about 75 or in another embodiment at least about 80 or in another embodiment at least about 85 or in another embodiment at least about 90 or in another embodiment at least about 95 .

In some embodiments the term about when in reference to a value as described herein is to be understood to encompass the indicated value 1 or in some embodiments 3 or in some embodiments 3 or in some embodiments 5 or in some embodiments 7 or in some embodiments 10 or in some embodiments 15 or in some embodiments 20 or in some embodiments 25 .

Intron splicing efficiency is readily determined by quantifying the spliced transcripts versus the full length unspliced transcripts that contain the intron using methods known in the art such as by quantitative PCR or Northern blot analysis using appropriate probes for the transcripts. See e.g. Sambrook et al. supra and other general cloning manuals. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR can be used to analyze RNA samples containing mixtures of spliced and unspliced mRNA transcripts. For example fluorescent tagged primers designed to span the intron are used to amplify both spliced and unspliced targets. The resultant amplification products are then separated by gel electrophoresis and quantitated by measuring the fluorescent emission of the appropriate band s . A comparison is made to determine the amount of spliced and unspliced transcripts present in the RNA sample.

In some embodiments this invention provides a vector comprising any desired grouping of elements which at least consists of an miR30 and flanking splice donor and splice acceptor sites in antisense orientation situated between two sets of loxP sites as herein described such that upon exposure to a Cre recombinase or other appropriate recombinase inversion and excision occurs and expression of the miR30 is accomplished.

In some embodiments such vectors compositions kits of this invention may be said to consist essentially of at least one miR30 contained within an artificial intron wherein the phrase consist essentially of is to convey that other sequences may be incorporated into the vectors compositions kits of this invention including marker sequences regulatory sequences including promoter and enhancers other coding sequences which may be in antisense orientation and juxtaposed between loxP sites as herein described or such sequences may be in sense orientation and are Cre independent for their expression.

In one embodiment the constructs of this invention will comprise a promoter operatively linked to the first nucleic acid sequence encoding a selection marker. In one embodiment the term promoter refers to a nucleic acid sequence which regulates expression of a nucleic acid operably linked thereto. Such promoters are known to be cis acting sequence elements required for transcription as they serve to bind DNA dependent RNA polymerase which transcribes sequences present downstream thereof.

The term operably linked in one embodiment refers to a relationship permitting the sequences to function in their intended manner. A vector comprising a regulatory sequence operably linked to a coding sequence is ligated in such a way that expression of the nucleic acid sequence is achieved under conditions compatible with the control sequences. Operably linked refers in some embodiments to a juxtaposition of two or more components wherein the components so described are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended manner. For example a promoter and or enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if it acts in cis to control or modulate the transcription of the linked sequence. Generally but not necessarily the DNA sequences that are operably linked are contiguous and where necessary to join two protein coding regions or in the case of a secretory leader contiguous and in reading frame. However although an operably linked promoter is generally located upstream of the coding sequence it is not necessarily contiguous with it. Enhancers do not have to be contiguous. An enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if the enhancer increases transcription of the coding sequence. Operably linked enhancers can be located upstream within or downstream of coding sequences and at considerable distances from the promoter. A polyadenylation site is operably linked to a coding sequence if it is located at the downstream end of the coding sequence such that transcription proceeds through the coding sequence into the polyadenylation sequence. Linking is accomplished by recombinant methods known in the art e.g. using PCR methodology by annealing or by ligation at convenient restriction sites. If convenient restriction sites do not exist then synthetic oligonucleotide adaptors or linkers are used in accord with conventional practice.

In one embodiment a promoter including an engineered promoter used in the vectors and methods of this invention may be one known to confer cell type specific expression of a sequence operatively linked to thereto. For example and in one embodiment a promoter specific for myoblast gene expression can be operatively linked to an miRNA for a coding sequence of interest a reporter gene or a coding sequence of interest to confer muscle specific expression thereof. Muscle specific regulatory elements which are known in the art include upstream regions from the dystrophin gene Klamut et al. 1990 Mol. Cell Biol. 10 193 the creatine kinase gene Horlick and Benfield 1989 Mol. Cell Biol. 9 2396 Buskin and Hauschka 1989 Mol. Cell Biol. 9 2627 and the troponin gene Mar and Ordahl 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 85 6404 .

In another embodiment promoters used in the vectors and methods of this invention specific for other cell types known in the art e.g. the albumin enhancer for liver specific expression insulin regulatory elements for pancreatic islet cell specific expression various neural cell specific regulatory elements including neural dystrophin neural enolase and A4 amyloid promoters may be used and represent an embodiment of this invention. In another embodiment a promoter or regulatory element which can direct constitutive expression of a sequence operatively linked thereto in a variety of different cell types such as a viral regulatory element may be used. Examples of viral promoters commonly used to drive gene expression include those derived from polyoma virus Adenovirus 2 cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus 40 and retroviral LTRs.

In another embodiment a regulatory element which provides inducible expression of a gene linked thereto may be used. The use of an inducible promoter may allow in another embodiment for an additional means of modulating the product of the coding sequence in the cell. Examples of potentially useful inducible regulatory systems for use in eukaryotic cells include hormone regulated elements e.g. see Mader S and White J. H. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 5603 5607 synthetic ligand regulated elements see e.g. Spencer D. M. et al 1993 Science 262 1019 1024 and ionizing radiation regulated elements e.g. see Manome Y. Et al. 1993 Biochemistry 32 10607 10613 Datta R. et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 1014 10153 . Additional tissue specific or inducible regulatory systems may be developed for use in accordance with the invention.

In another embodiment the vector further comprises a first regulatory sequence operationally linked to the first nucleic acid and being in an antisense orientation which in one. embodiment is a UbiquitinC promoter sequence. In another embodiment the vector further comprises a second regulatory sequence located 5 to said first regulatory sequence wherein the second regulatory sequence is in a sense orientation.

In one embodiment the term capable of expressing a Cre recombinase refers to a cell that endogenously expresses the Cre recombinase or in another embodiment is engineered to express a Cre recombinase.

In one embodiment the cell is in a culture system or in another embodiment in a body of a subject or in another embodiment is ex vivo cultured and following transfection or transduction with a vector of this invention is reintroduced to the subject from which the cell was taken. In one embodiment the cell is a stem or progenitor cell. In another embodiment the cell is a mature differentiated cell. In one embodiment the cell is a human cell in origin or in another embodiment the cell is murine in origin.

In one embodiment the terms cells host cells or target cells are used interchangeably and refer in one embodiment not only to the particular subject cell but to the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences such progeny may not in fact be identical to the parent cell but are still included within the scope of the term as used herein.

In another embodiment the cell is a diseased cell. In one embodiment the cell is infected or in another embodiment the cell is transformed or neoplastic. In another embodiment the cell is obtained from a subject with a disease whose etiology is associated with a genetic mutation. In another embodiment the cell is obtained from a subject with a disease where an inappropriate immune or inflammatory response has been initiated.

In one embodiment the target cell of any method of the present invention may be a cancer cell or neoplastic cell. Neoplastic cell refers in one embodiment to a cell whose normal growth control mechanisms are disrupted typically by accumulated genetic mutations thereby providing potential for uncontrolled proliferation. Thus neoplastic cell can include in one embodiment both dividing and non dividing cells. In one embodiment neoplastic cells may include cells of tumors neoplasms carcinomas sarcomas leukemias lymphomas and others. In another embodiment neoplastic cells may include central nervous system tumors such as for example brain tumors. These may include in other embodiments glioblastomas astrocytomas oligodendrogliomas meningiomas neurofibromas ependymomas schwannomas or neurofibrosarcomas. In another embodiment neoplastic cells can include either benign or malignant neoplastic cells. In another embodiment neoplastic cells can include any other type of cancer known in the art.

In one embodiment the target cell may be an infected cell. In another embodiment the target cell may be a pathogenic cell. In another embodiment the target cell may mediate autoimmunity or another disease state. In another embodiment the target cell may comprise a mutated cellular gene necessary for a physiological function. In one embodiment the mutated product results in disease in the subject. According to this aspect of the invention the vectors methods of this invention may be employed to silence a defective gene and may further be followed by delivery of a wild type copy of the desired gene.

It is to be understood that any cell comprising a vector of this invention or utilized for the methods of this invention is to be considered as part of this invention and represents an embodiment thereof.

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment following Cre mediated recombination in the target cell the miRNA agent is expressed and reduces expression of the coding sequence thereby conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence in the target cell.

In another embodiment the vector is a retroviral vector. In one embodiment the retroviral vector of this invention may correspond to one as exemplified herein.

A retroviral or retrovirus vector as used herein is a vector which comprises at least one component part derivable from a retrovirus. In one embodiment the component part is involved in the biological mechanisms by which the vector infects cells expresses genes or is replicated. The term derivable in one embodiment refers to the fact that the sequence need not necessarily be obtained from a retrovirus but instead could be derived therefrom. By way of example the sequence may be prepared synthetically or by use of recombinant DNA techniques.

The retroviral vectors of this invention may be derived from any member of the family of retroviridae.

In one embodiment the vectors of this invention are lentivirus and may be derived from any member of the family of lentiviridae.

In one embodiment the retroviral vectors of this invention comprise sufficient retroviral genetic information to allow packaging of an RNA genome in the presence of packaging components into a viral particle capable of infecting a target cell. In one embodiment infection of the target cell includes reverse transcription and integration into the target cell genome. The retroviral vectors of this invention may carry in one embodiment non viral coding sequences which are to be delivered by the vector to the target cell. In one embodiment the retroviral vectors of this invention are incapable of independent replication to produce infectious retroviral particles within the final target cell. In one embodiment the retroviral vectors of this invention will lack a functional gag pol and or env gene and or other genes essential for replication.

In some embodiments the vectors of this invention may be integrated into the genome germ line of a host mammal thereby forming a transgenic animal. In some embodiments such integration into the germ line is desired for the transmission of the construct to offspring and thus a strain of mammals containing the constructs can be maintained as exemplified in an embodiment herein.

Depending upon the characteristics of the miR30 employed or the intron for example a variety of screening procedures are available which may comprise probe analysis mRNA analysis enzyme analysis functional assays antibody screens and protein carbohydrate and lipid analysis to ascertain for example gene knockdown or construct incorporation as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

As exemplified herein transgenic animals expressing the constructs of this invention may be prepared representing another embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments such procedures entail injection of the constructs into early embryos which may be accomplished by means well known in the art for example embryos are placed in a drop of medium see Quinn J. Reprod. Fert. 66 161 168 1982 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference . The drop of medium is covered with paraffin oil and the embryos are viewed with an inverted microscope using Hoffman optics. Injection of the vectors of this invention may be accomplished by positioning a one cell embryo or blastula with a holding micropipette and injecting the vector thereto with a finely pulled injection micropipette. The control of the fluid flow through the micropipettes may be accomplished by art recognized means for example the entire system may be filled with paraffin oil allowing positive pressure for injection and negative pressure for holding the embryo to be injected under fine control. Embryo survival after injection may be assessed morphologically.

The embryos surviving microinjection may be placed in HT6 medium in preparation for transfer to the oviducts of 6 to 8 week old female mice. The recipient may be administered PMS i.p. followed later by hCG and placed with a vasectomized male mouse. To aid the recipient in accepting the microinjection embryos the gonadotropic administration and mating may coincide with the schedule of the donor mouse.

The success of the embryo transfer is in some embodiments judged by the birth of mice about 19 21 days after transfer. Success of the microinjection may be assessed by Southern hybridization analysis of DNA isolated from mouse tail biopsies.

In one embodiment the vectors and methods of this invention may employ the use of enhancer sequences. In one embodiment the term enhancer refers to a DNA sequence which binds to other protein components of the transcription initiation complex and may thus facilitate the initiation of transcription directed by its associated promoter.

In another embodiment the vectors and their use according to the present invention include at least two selectable markers which may serve to indicate inversion and excision mediated by a Cre recombinase as described herein. In one embodiment the selectable marker comprises an antibiotic resistance cassette by means well known to one skilled in the art. In one embodiment the resistance cassette is for conferring resistance to ampicillin bleomycin chloramphenicol gentamycin hygromycin kanamycin lincomycin methotrexate phosphinothricin puromycin or tetracycline or derivatives thereof.

In another embodiment the selectable marker may comprise nucleic acid sequences encoding for a reporter protein such as for example green fluorescent protein GFP DS Red red fluorescent protein acetohydroxyacid synthase AHAS beta glucoronidase GUS secreted alkaline phosphatase SEAP beta galactosidase chloramphenicol acetyltransferase CAT horseradish peroxidase HRP luciferase nopaline synthase NOS octopine synthase OCS or derivatives thereof many known in the art or any number of other reporter proteins known to one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments the invention provides vectors kits compositions and the use of any form or derivative of GFP that emits sufficient fluorescence to enable fluorescence detection of intracellular GFP by flow cytometry using a fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS or by fluorescence microscopy. GFP usable in the invention include wild type as well as naturally occurring by spontaneous mutation or recombinantly engineered mutants and variants truncated versions and fragments functional equivalents derivatives homologs and fusions of the naturally occurring or wild type proteins. A range of mutations in and around the chromophore structure of GFP around amino acids 64 68 have been described. These mutations result in modifications of the spectral properties the speed of chromophore formation the extinction coefficient and the physical characteristics of the GFP. These forms of GFP may have altered excitation and emission spectra as compared to the wild type GFP or may exhibit greater stability. The mutant GFPs may fluoresce with increased intensity or with visibly distinct colors than the wild type protein e.g. blue yellow or red shifted fluorescent proteins the DNA containing these genes of which are available commercially Clontech Palo Alto Calif. Quantum Biotechnologies Montreal Canada . Mutants with increased fluorescence over the wild type GFP provide a much more sensitive detection system. Mutants may have a single excitation peak as opposed to 2 peaks characteristic of the native protein may be resistant to photobleaching or may exhibit more rapid oxidation to fluorophore. For example the Aequorea GFP mutant S65T Heim et al. Nature 373 663 664 1995 in which Ser65 has been replaced by Thr offers several advantages over the wild type GFP in that the mutant provides six fold greater brightness than wild type faster fluorophore formation no photoisomerization and only very slow photobleaching. Modifications of Ser65 to Thr or Cys result in GFPs that continue to emit maximally at approximately 509 nm but which have a single excitation peak red shifted to 488 nm and 473 nm respectively. This has several advantages in that it brings the excitation peaks more in line with those already used with fluorescent microscopes and fluorescence activated cell sorters FACS for FITC. Furthermore chromophore formation of these mutants is more rapid and the extinction coefficient is greater than that of wtGFP wild type GFP which results in a stronger fluorescent signal Heim et al. 1995 supra . Other GFP mutants have codons optimized for mammalian cell expression as well as exhibiting greater fluorescence than the original GFP gene see Bennet 1998 infra Crameri et al. Nature Biotechnol. 14 315 319 1996 . Humanized or otherwise modified versions of GFP including base substitution to change codon usage that favor high level expression in mammalian cells are suitable for use in the constructs of the invention see e.g. Hauswirth et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 874 304 Haas et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 795 737 . GFP mutants that will fluoresce and be detected by illumination with white light are described in WO 9821355. Still other mutant GFPs are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 387 Cormack et al. and WO 9742320 Gaitanaris et al. .

In another embodiment the vector may further include an origin of replication and may be a shuttle vector which can propagate both in bacteria such as for example wherein the vector comprises an appropriate selectable marker and origin of replication and be compatible for propagation in vertebrate cells or integration in the genome of an organism of choice.

The nucleic acids may be introduced into tissues or host cells by any number of routes including viral infection microinjection or fusion of vesicles. Jet injection may also be used for intramuscular administration as described by Furth et al. 1992 Anal Biochem 205 365 368. The nucleic acids may be coated onto gold microparticles and delivered intradermally by a particle bombardment device or gene gun as described in the literature see for example Tang et al. 1992 Nature 356 152 154 where gold microprojectiles are coated with the DNA then bombarded into skin cells. Expression vectors may be used to introduce the nucleic acids into a cell.

In one embodiment the vectors of this invention may be fed directly to injected into the host organism containing the target gene. The vectors of this invention may be directly introduced into the cell i.e. intracellularly or introduced extracellularly into a cavity interstitial space into the circulation of an organism introduced orally etc. Methods for oral introduction include direct mixing of the vector with food of the organism. Physical methods of introducing the vectors include injection directly into the cell or extracellular injection into the organism of a solution comprising the vector. The vectors may be introduced in an amount which allows delivery of at least one copy per cell. Higher doses e.g. at least 5 10 100 500 or 1000 copies per cell of the vectors may yield more effective inhibition lower doses may also be useful for specific applications.

In other embodiments a hydrodynamic administration protocol is employed and may be as described in Chang et al. J. Virol. 2001 75 3469 3473 Liu et al. Gene Ther. 1999 6 1258 1266 Wolff et al. Science 1990 247 1465 1468 Zhang et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 1999 10 1735 1737 and Zhang et al. Gene Ther. 1999 7 1344 1349 each of which represents an embodiment of this invention.

In other embodiments delivery protocols of interest may include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 985 847 or 5 922 687 WO 11092 Acsadi et al. New Biol. 1991 3 71 81 Hickman et al. Hum. Gen. Ther. 1994 5 1477 1483 or Wolff et al. Science 1990 247 1465 1468 and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

The methods of this invention comprise the step of contacting a target cell with a vector of this invention. In one embodiment the terms contacting contact or contacted indicate direct or in another embodiment indirect exposure of the cell to a vector compound or composition comprising the vectors of this invention. It is envisaged that in another embodiment indirect supply to the cell may be via provision in a culture medium that surrounds the cell or via parenteral administration in a body of a subject whereby the vector ultimately contacts a cell via peripheral circulation for further detail see for example Methods in Enzymology Vol. 1 317 Rubin and Dennis eds 1955 2003 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Ausubel et al eds 1998 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Sambrook and Russell eds. 2001 or other standard laboratory manuals . It is to be understood that any direct means or indirect means of intracellular access of a vector or composition comprising the same of this invention represents an embodiment thereof.

In one embodiment the target cell is contacted with a vector composition comprising the same of this invention in vivo in vitro or ex vivo. In one embodiment cells may be procured from a subject contacted with a vector of this invention and reintroduced into the subject. In one embodiment the cell is a stem or progenitor cell and reintroduction into the subject may be followed in another embodiment by stimulation of differentiation of the contacted cell in vivo.

In another embodiment this invention provides for the generation of a non human animal with reduced expression of a coding sequence wherein the reduced expression is produced according to the methods and or utilizing the vectors of this invention.

Transgenic mice may in one embodiment be derived using the vectors methods of this invention according to Hogan et al. Manipulating the Mouse Embryo A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1988 which is incorporated herein by reference. Embryonic stem cells may in another embodiment be manipulated according to published procedures Teratocarcinomas and embryonic stem cells a practical approach E. J. Robertson ed. IRL Press Washington D.C. 1987 Zjilstra et al. Nature 342 435 438 1989 and Schwartzberg et al. Science 246 799 803 1989 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . Zygotes may be manipulated in another embodiment according to known procedures for example see U.S. Pat. No. 4 873 191 Brinster et al. PNAS 86 7007 1989 Susulic et al. J. Biol. Chem. 49 29483 1995 and Cavard et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 16 2099 1988 hereby incorporated by reference. Tetraploid blastocyst complementation may also be utilized to achieve non human animals which express the vectors of this invention according to methods as exemplified herein or as are well known in the art.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of producing an animal genetically inactivated for a coding sequence the method comprising contacting an embryonic stem cell with a vector of this invention which may be used for gene silencing injecting the contacted embryonic stem cell to a blastocyst of an animal and obtaining an animal expressing the vector whereby following Cre mediated recombination in the animal the miRNA agent is expressed and reduces expression of the coding sequence thereby being a method of producing an animal genetically inactivated for a coding sequence.

In another embodiment the method of conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence as described and exemplified herein may be therapeutic. In one embodiment the term therapeutic refers to the fact that when in contact with a cell in a subject in need provides a beneficial effect.

In one embodiment the compositions vectors and methods of conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence of this invention prevent inappropriate expression of an encoded protein in a subject. Some examples include endogenous proteins which are mutated and produces a non functional protein or an over expressed protein which in another embodiment may be non functional or in another embodiment pathogenic.

In one embodiment the encoded protein may include cytokines such as interferons or interleukins or their receptors. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment inappropriate expression patterns of cytokines may be altered to produce a beneficial effect such as for example a biasing of the immune response toward a Th1 type expression pattern or a Th2 pattern in infection or in autoimmune disease wherein altered expression patterns may prove beneficial to the host. In these cases and in one embodiment conditionally reducing expression of the inappropriate or non protective cytokine receptor may be followed by delivery of an appropriate cytokine or a vector nucleic acid for expressing the same.

In another embodiment the encoded protein may include an enzyme such as one involved in glycogen storage or breakdown. In another embodiment the encoded protein may include a transporter such as an ion transporter for example CFTR or a glucose transporter or other transporters whose inappropriate expression results in a variety of diseases. As described hereinabove and in another embodiment conditionally reducing expression of the encoded proteins according to this aspect of the invention may be followed by delivery of a wild type protein or a plasmid encoding same or a mutated protein which results in a therapeutic effect in the subject.

In another embodiment the encoded protein may include a receptor such as one involved in signal transduction within a cell. Some examples include as above cytokine receptors leptin receptors transferring receptors etc. or any receptor wherein altered expression results in inappropriate or inadequate signal transduction in a cell.

It is to be understood that any encoded protein wherein conditionally reducing expression of the product is therapeutic to a subject is to be considered as part of this invention and methods vectors to provide wild type or otherwise therapeutic versions of the encoded protein to the subject following conditional reduction of expression of the mutated version is to be considered as part of this invention and embodiments thereof.

In another embodiment the vectors methods of this invention may be utilized to conditionally reduce expression of an oncogene whose expression promotes cancer related events. In one embodiment the conditionally reduced expression of oncogenes comprising ABLI BCLI BCL2 BCL6 CBFA2 CBL CSFIR ERBA ERBB EBRB2 ETSI ETSI ETV6 FOR FOS FYN HCR HRAS JUN KRAS LCK LYN MDM2 MLL MYB MYC MYCLI MYCN NRAS PIM 1 PML RET SRC TALI TCL3 YES or any form thereof or combinations thereof may be effected via the vectors compositions methods of this invention. In another embodiment vectors methods of this invention may be utilized to conditionally reduce expression of a Prostate Tumor Inducing Gene which may comprise in one embodiment PTI 1 PTI 2 PTI 3 or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the vectors methods of this invention may be utilized to conditionally reduce expression of genes whose products promote angiogenesis such as for example and in one embodiment VEGF VEGF receptor erythropoietin or combinations thereof. In another embodiment the coding sequence for which conditional reducing expression is desired may comprise a matrix metalloproteinase wherein reduction of expression prevents in one embodiment metastasis of cancerous cells or in another embodiment tissue necrosis in infectious or inflammatory diseases.

In another embodiment the vectors compositions methods of this invention may be utilized to conditionally reduce expression of a mutated rhodopsin gene. Autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ADRP is characterized by the substitution of histidine for proline at codon 23 P23H in their rhodopsin gene resulting in photoreceptor cell death from the synthesis of the abnormal gene product. In one embodiment P23H mutant mRNAs may be targeted for conditional reduction of expression.

In another embodiment the vectors compositions methods of this invention may be utilized to reverse effects of high glucose on progression of diabetic retinopathy. High glucose environments can result in chronically increased nitric oxide NO activity which leads to endothelial cell dysfunction and impaired blood retinal barrier integrity characteristic of diabetic retinopathy.

In one embodiment NOS synthesis may be conditionally reduced in a tissue specific manner in another embodiment via the use of miRNAs targeted against VEGF iNOS or eNOS using the vectors compositions and methods as described hereinabove. In another embodiment glucose transporters may be similarly targeted for therapeutic purposes in diabetic retinopathy.

In another embodiment the vectors compositions and methods for reducing expression of a coding sequence may be applied in a subject with a disease where the disease may comprise but is not limited to muscular dystrophy cancer cardiovascular disease hypertension infection renal disease neurodegenerative disease such as alzheimer s disease parkinson s disease huntington s chorea Creuztfeld Jacob disease autoimmune disease such as lupus rheumatoid arthritis endocarditis Graves disease or ALD respiratory disease such as asthma or cystic fibrosis bone disease such as osteoporosis joint disease liver disease disease of the skin such as psoriasis or eczema ophthalmic disease otolaryngeal disease other neurological disease such as Turret syndrome schizophrenia depression autism or stoke or metabolic disease such as a glycogen storage disease or diabetes. It is to be understood that any disease whereby reduced expression of a particular protein which can be accomplished via the use of the vectors or cells or compositions or via the methods of this invention is to be considered as part of this invention.

In one embodiment the vectors and or methods of this invention inactivate a gene whose product expression results in a disease disorder or condition. In some embodiments such vectors may further a second sequence of interest which are in antisense orientation as well and may in some embodiments be fused to the miRNA sequence as herein described. In some embodiments the second sequence of interest may itself be flanked by restriction endonuclease sites splice donor and acceptor sites or combinations thereof or in some embodiments a splice acceptor sequence is positioned 3 to the second sequence while a splice donor sequence is positioned 5 to the first sequence such that the splice sequences and or restriction endonuclease sites flank fused miRNAs.

In some embodiments such second sequences may comprise sequences encoding a therapeutic protein for example where the sequence which is inactivated is a mutated product which results in disease the second sequence may encode the same product in a therapeutic form which in turn prevents or treats the disease. For example in subjects with a mutated CFTR as herein described the second sequence may encode a wild type CFTR or one which restores therapeutic activity in a subject.

In some embodiments the first miRNA sequence of interest specifically interacts with a sequence encoding an endogenous form of the protein of interest and in one embodiment the endogenous form is associated with a disease or disorder in the host.

According to this aspect and in one embodiment the second sequence may be another miRNA sequence of interest which modulates expression of a gene whose activity is cooperative with that of a gene inactivated by the first miRNA sequence of interest. For example multiple oncogenes may be inactivated in a subject with a particularly aggressive neoplasia or in another embodiment multiple mediators of inflammation may be inactivated in a subject with severe inflammatory disease or autoimmune disease or others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the second miRNA sequence may modulate expression of a gene whose activity antagonizes that of a gene modulated by the first miRNA sequence of interest.

In another embodiment two or more miRNA sequences are expressed in such subjects are found within the vectors of this invention and in some embodiments the vector may further comprise a third nucleic acid in antisense orientation positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences wherein the third nucleic acid encodes a protein of interest which may in some embodiments be directly related to the products of genes being inactivated for example when oncogenes are being inactivated the third sequence may encode a tumor suppressor. In some embodiments the encoded protein of interest may be indirectly related for example a molecule known to activate the immune response in the subject. In some embodiments other products may be co expressed for example tumor vaccines or antigens directed against derived from the tumor or neoplasia being treated. In other embodiments such products may be co administered or staggered in administration or administered at a site distal to delivery of the vectors of this invention whose therapeutic effect is cooperative.

In another embodiment the vector will comprise a third sequence and the methods of this invention make use of the same or of administration of additional protein polypeptide nucleic acids vectors which comprise express any desired protein for example a therapeutic protein for example insulins amylases proteases lipases kinases phosphatases glycosyl transferases trypsinogen chymotrypsinogen carboxypeptidases hormones ribonucleases deoxyribonucleases triacylglycerol lipase phospholipase A2 elastases amylases blood clotting factors UDP glucuronyl transferases ornithine transcarbamoylases cytochrome p450 enzymes adenosine deaminases serum thymic factors thymic humoral factors thymopoietins growth hormones somatomedins costimulatory factors antibodies colony stimulating factors erythropoietin epidermal growth factors hepatic erythropoietic factors hepatopoietin liver cell growth factors interleukins interferons negative growth factors fibroblast growth factors transforming growth factors of the family transforming growth factors of the family gastrins secretins cholecystokinins somatostatins serotonins substance P and transcription factors and enzymes e.g. ACC synthases and oxidases ACP desaturases and hydroxylases ADP glucose pyrophorylases ATPases alcohol dehydrogenases amyloglucosidases catalases cellulases chalcone synthases chitinases cyclooxygenases decarboxylases dextrinases DNA and RNA polymerases galactosidases glucanases glucose oxidases granule bound starch synthases GTPases helicases hemicellulases integrases inulinases invertases isomerases kinases lactases Upases lipoxygenases lysozymes nopaline synthases octopine synthases pectinesterases peroxidases phosphatases phospholipases phosphorylases phytases plant growth regulator synthases polygalacturonases proteinases and peptidases pullanases recombinases reverse transcriptases RUBISCOs topoisomerases and xylanases chemokines e.g. CXCR4 CCR5 the RNA component of telomerase vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF VEGF receptor tumor necrosis factors nuclear factor kappa B transcription factors cell adhesion molecules Insulin like growth factor transforming growth factor beta family members cell surface receptors RNA binding proteins e.g. small nucleolar RNAs RNA transport factors translation factors telomerase reverse transcriptase or combinations thereof.

In another embodiment expression of a tumor suppressor gene is desired such as for example APC BRCA 1 BRCA2 MADH4 MCC NF 1 NF2 RB 1 TP53 WTI or combinations thereof and vectors of this invention comprising and methods making use of such sequences may in one embodiment suppress or in another embodiment diminish severity or in another embodiment prevent metastasis of a cancer and represent an embodiment of this invention.

In another embodiment expression of an immunomodulating protein is desired such as for example cytokines chemokines complement components immune system accessory and adhesion molecules or their receptors such as for example GM CSF IL 2 IL 12 OX40 OX40L gp34 lymphotactin CD40 and CD40L interleukins 1 to 15 interferons alpha beta or gamma tumour necrosis factor granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF macrophage colony stimulating factor M CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF chemokines such as neutrophil activating protein NAP macrophage chemoattractant and activating factor MCAF RANTES macrophage inflammatory peptides MIP 1a and MIP 1b complement components and their receptors or an accessory molecule such as B7.1 B7.2 TRAP ICAM 1 2 or 3 cytokine receptors OX40 OX40 ligand gp34 or combinations thereof.

In another embodiment expression of a protein which suppresses angiogenesis is desired and vectors comprising same and uses thereof to treat disease states including cancer hemangiomas glaucoma and other diseases as will be well known to one skilled in the art represent embodiments of this invention. In one embodiment suppression of angiogenesis is accomplished via expressing an endostatin.

In another embodiment the method of conditionally reducing expression of a coding sequence as described and exemplified herein may be for the evaluation of interacting proteins or endogenous mechanisms or interaction of substances therewith. For example and in one embodiment reduced expression of a specific tumor suppressor or multiple suppressors is evaluated in an animal subject for the creation of an experimental model. According to this aspect and in some embodiments knockdown of such suppressors may be cell or tissue specific. In some embodiments according to this aspect the model may further comprise expression of an oncogene. In some embodiments the model may further comprise the evaluation of therapies and or treatment regimens as a model for appropriate therapeutics.

In another aspect the reduced expression may be of a specific oncogene in an established animal model of cancer or multiple oncogenes for the creation of an experimental model of cancer therapy. According to this aspect and in some embodiments knockdown of such oncogenes may be cell or tissue specific and evaluation thereof may provide a mechanism for therapy of a particular cancer or cancers in general. In some embodiments according to this aspect the model may further comprise expression of a tumor suppressor. In some embodiments the model may further comprise the evaluation of therapies and or treatment regimens as a model for appropriate therapeutics or in some embodiments evaluation of certain agents or lifestyle changes which prevent therapy reduce efficacy thereto or exacerbate disease.

Similarly animal models of diseases such as suspected multi genic dependent diseases may be evaluated with the vectors nucleic acids compositions and methods of this invention as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of assessing neoplasia in an animal model said method comprising 

In some embodiments the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the wildtype sequence and in some embodiments the second pair of loxP sequences comprises a mutated loxP. In some embodiments the first pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 5171 sequence and in some embodiments the second pair of loxP sequences comprises the loxP 2272 sequence.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a first regulatory sequence operatively linked to said second nucleic acid and said regulatory sequence is in antisense orientation and in some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is a UbiquitinC promoter sequence. In some embodiments the vector further comprises a second regulatory sequence located 5 to said first regulatory sequence wherein said second regulatory sequence is in sense orientation.

In some embodiments the vector further comprises a Bovine Growth Hormone polyadenylation signal positioned 3 to said second pair of loxP sites and in some embodiments the vector further comprises a modified U3 LTR positioned 5 to said polyadenylation signal. In some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is tissue specific or in some embodiments the first regulatory sequence is inducible.

In some embodiments the vector further comprises a second miRNA sequence of interest in antisense orientation fused to the miRNA sequence of interest. In some embodiments the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity is cooperative with that of a gene modulated by said first miRNA sequence of interest. In some embodiments the first and second miRNA sequence of interest regulate expression of a tumor suppressor.

In some embodiments the first miRNA sequence of interest specifically inactivates one of p53 or PTEN gene expression and said second miRNA sequence of interest specifically inactivates the other.

In some embodiments the second miRNA sequence of interest modulates expression of a gene whose activity antagonizes that of a gene modulated by said the miRNA sequence of interest.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a third nucleic acid in antisense orientation positioned between the first pair of loxP sequences wherein the third nucleic acid encodes a protein of interest.

In some embodiments the third nucleic acid encodes an miRNA specifically inactivating a tumor suppressor.

In some embodiments the third nucleic acid encodes an miRNA specifically inactivating p53 PTEN or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments the vector comprises a nucleic acid sequence corresponding to or homologous to SEQ ID NO 21

In some embodiments animal models and or treatment strategies for the following neoplasias are to be considered as part of this invention when applying the vectors nucleic acids compositions and methods of this invention to create a model and or treatment for a cancer which may comprise comprise adrenocortical carcinoma anal cancer bladder cancer brain tumor brain stem glioma brain tumor cerebellar astrocytoma cerebral astrocytoma ependymoma medulloblastoma supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal pineal tumors hypothalamic glioma breast cancer carcinoid tumor carcinoma cervical cancer colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer extrahepatic bile duct cancer ewings family of tumors Pnet extracranial germ cell tumor eye cancer intraocular melanoma gallbladder cancer gastric cancer germ cell tumor extragonadal gestational trophoblastic tumor head and neck cancer hypopharyngeal cancer islet cell carcinoma laryngeal cancer leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia oral cavity cancer liver cancer lung cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer lymphoma AIDS related lymphoma central nervous system primary lymphoma cutaneous T cell lymphoma Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s disease malignant mesothelioma melanoma Merkel cell carcinoma metasatic squamous carcinoma multiple myeloma plasma cell neoplasms mycosis fungoides myelodysplastic syndrome myeloproliferative disorders nasopharyngeal cancer neuroblastoma oropharyngeal cancer osteosarcoma ovarian epithelial cancer ovarian germ cell tumor ovarian low malignant potential tumor pancreatic cancer exocrine pancreatic cancer islet cell carcinoma paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer parathyroid cancer penile cancer pheochromocytoma cancer pituitary cancer plasma cell neoplasm prostate cancer rhabdomyosarcoma rectal cancer renal cell cancer salivary gland cancer Sezary syndrome skin cancer cutaneous T cell lymphoma skin cancer Kaposi s sarcoma skin cancer melanoma small intestine cancer soft tissue sarcoma soft tissue sarcoma testicular cancer thymoma malignant thyroid cancer urethral cancer uterine cancer sarcoma unusual cancer of childhood vaginal cancer vulvar cancer Wilms tumor or any combination thereof. It is to be understood that the animal models and or treatment strategies for the neoplasias listed herein and in reference thereto in applying the vectors nucleic acids compositions and methods of this invention to create a model and or treatment for such neoplasias are to be considered for application to preneoplastic or hyperplastic lesions thereof as well and represent other embodiments of this invention.

In another embodiment the methods vectors compositions of this invention do not exhibit the limitation of causing constitutive gene silencing or gene expression in all tissues. According to this aspect of the invention the methods of this allow for regulated expression of miRNA and thereby regulated expression of a desired coding sequence.

In another embodiment this invention provides for kits for conditional reduction of expression or conditional expression of a coding sequence comprising one or more containers filled with one or more of the ingredients of the aforementioned vectors or compositions of the invention.

The vectors of the invention may be employed in another embodiment in combination with a non sterile or sterile carrier or carriers for administration to cells tissues or organisms such as a pharmaceutical carrier suitable for administration to an individual. Such compositions comprise for instance a media additive or a therapeutically effective amount of a recombinant virus of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Such carriers may include but are not limited to saline buffered saline dextrose water glycerol and combinations thereof. The formulation should suit the mode of administration.

The vectors or compositions of the invention may be employed alone or in conjunction with other compounds such as additional therapeutic compounds.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in any effective convenient manner including for instance administration by intravascular i.v. intramuscular i.m. intranasal i.n. subcutaneous s.c. oral rectal intravaginal delivery or by any means in which the recombinant virus composition can be delivered to tissue e.g. needle or catheter . Alternatively topical administration may be desired for insertion into epithelial cells. Another method of administration is via aspiration or aerosol formulation.

For administration to mammals and particularly humans it is expected that the physician will determine the actual dosage and duration of treatment which will be most suitable for an individual and can vary with the age weight and response of the particular individual.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate some embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the scope of the invention.

pLB2 was generated by modification of pLB Kissler S et al. Nat. Genet. 2006 April 38 4 479 83 to introduce the FLIP insert followed by insert fill in and ligation.

The FLIP insert comprises loxP 5171 and loxP 2272 genes a modified puromycin resistance cassette incorporating the foot and mouth disease virus FMDV 2A encoding sequence at its C terminus fused in frame to a gene encoding the Thy1.1 surface marker See Schnutgen F et. al. Nat. Biotechnol. 2003 May 21 5 562 5 for methods and nucleic acids encoding the indicated miR30 and GFP as outlined in .

An miR30 following GFP was placed in an artificial intron by flanking the miR30 with consensus splice donor and splice acceptor sequences underlined . The restriction sites NotI PmeI in bold flanked a miR30 specific for firefly luciferase.

A pLB2 construct comprising the FLIP cassette containing miR30 targeting FireFly luciferase was constructed with the following sequence 

The pFLIP insert comprising an RNAi to p53 not in an intron has a nucleic acid sequence as follows microRNA short hairpin to p53 in upper case 

GFP miR30 flanked by a single loxP site as FLIP would look after Cre mediated recombination has a sequence as follows 

pLB2 comprising the FLIP cassette comprising an intron with restriction sites NotI PmeI and has a sequence as follows 

pLB2 comprising the FLIP cassette with the miR30 targeting FireFly luciferase in the antisense orientation was constructed with a sequence as follows 

pLB2 comprising the FLIP cassette with the miR30 targeting 4 integrin in the antisense orientation was constructed with a sequence as follows 

The MSCV FLIPi Puro2AGFP Thy1.1 miR Dbl p53 PTEN construct comprises a sequence as follows seq id no 27 

The Tie2 Cre construct was as described in Kisanuki Y. Y. et al. 2001 Dev Biol 230 230 42. The CD19 Cre construct was as described in Rickert R. C. Roes J. Rajewsky K. 1997 Nucleic Acids Res 25 1317 8. The Mox Cre construct was as described in Tallquist M D Soriano P. 2000. Genesis 26 2 113 5.

Anti p53 antibody was provided by Andrea Ventura. Doxorubicin and doxycycline were obtained from Sigma.

Reverse transcriptase PCR assays were conducted probing for efficient intron splicing from the FLIP vector and compared to PCR of genomic DNA. Primers were as follows 

Lewis Lung carcinoma cells LL2 were transducted with pFLIP and probed for Thy 1.1 expression by FACS analysis following puromycin selection. Selected cells were also probed for GFP expression prior to and following infection with MCSV Cre.

Infectious viral particles were produced through standard lab methods. 293FT cells were transiently transfected with retroviral gag pol and VSVg envelopes plasmids along with the viral vector. The supernatants were harvested at 48 hours and used to infect target cells in the presence of 4 ug ml polybrene.

HEK293 cells were infected with retrovirus expressing an miR30 targeting firefly luciferase FF PTEN p53 two tandem miR30 constructs targeting p53 and PTEN or FLIP vector Lanes 5 7 . The FLIP vector contained the miR30 targeting PTEN or p53 in the antisense that was reversed by Cre expression. The intron pair contained the miR30 targeting PTEN or p53 flanked by synthetic consensus splice donor and splice acceptor sites. The blots were hybridized with a probe specific for the guide strand sense probe that mediates RNAi or the antisense probe that is non functional. The functional guide strand was only produced when the vector was flipped to the sense orientation.

HEK293 cells infected with FLIP retrovirus expressing miR 181a or miR 15b in the antisense that is reversed to the sense orientation by Cre expression were similarly evaluated. The intron vectors contained the miRNAs between consensus synthetic splice sites. The blots were hybridized with probes specific for miR181a or miR15b. The miRNA was only processed to the mature form when expressed in the sense orientation.

The DC2.4 cell line was transduced with the pLB2 construct expressing a miR30 targeting alpha 4 integrin expression SEQ ID NO 2 with and without MCSV Cre. Integrin expression was assessed by FACS analysis probing with anti integrin alpha 4 conjugated to PE Becton Dickinson .

Murine embroyonic stem cells that express Cre from the VEGF R2 Flk1 locus which turns on Cre expression about embryonic day 8 were infected with the pLB2 constructs and selected with puromycin. Using tetraploid complementation FLIP infected ES cells were injected and embryos were generated which were derived exclusively from pLB2 expressing ES cells.

Adult pLB2 FLIP males were also subsequently crossed with Mox Cre females and embryos were removed at stage e9.5. Mox Cre expressed very early in embryo e2 or e3 .

Bone marrow stem were purified by lineage depletion of marker positive cells and cultured for 8 days in STIF medium and angiopoietin like 2 Zhang et al. On days 1 and 2 bone marrow stem cells were infected with FLIP retroviral supernatants and cultured for 4 days in the presence of puromycin. Recipient mice were lethally irradiated and reconstituted with infected bone marrow stem cells and additional supporting cells derived from the spleen.

Bone marrow stem cells were also obtained from Cre ERT2 mice see Hayashi S and McMahon A P. Dev Biol. 2002 Apr. 15 244 2 305 18 . Eight weeks after reconstitution mice were treated with 2 mg mouse tamoxifen to induce recombination of the vector. Five days later spleens were minced and sorted by MACS for Thy1.1 cells. Purified cells were cultured for 4 hours in 5 ug ml doxorubicin and lysed for SDS PAGE.

Bone marrow stem cells were obtained from CD19 Cre mice as well. After three months mice appeared lethargic and were sacrificed spleens obtained and analyzed see Zhang C C et al. Nat. Med. 2006 February 12 2 240 5 .

A pFLIP cassette was constructed as schematically depicted in . The construct may be expressed by a constitutive tissue specific or inducible promoter. The mRNA expressed puromycin resistance and the surface marker Thy1.1 or GFP. The puromycin Thy1.1 or GFP construct respectively was translated as a fusion protein but generated two distinct polypeptides by virtue of the 2A peptide at the C terminus of the puromycin resistance or GFP cassette which resulted in the translation of two distinct polypeptide species from a single cistron.

As depicted in the green fluorescent protein GFP and a miR30 microRNA based RNAi construct were present in the anti sense orientation in the 3 untranslated region of the mRNA. Upon addition of Cre recombinase the puro Thy1.1 cassette was deleted and the GFP microRNA construct was reversed to the sense orientation allowing expression of GFP and RNAi.

The vector expressed two markers a drug selection and a surface marker. When Cre was introduced the markers were deleted and expression of GFP and RNAi was induced. GFP and the RNAi were in antisense orientation until Cre recombinase was active at which point there was a flip to the sense orientation.

The vector containing the pFLIP cassette was referred to as pLB. The vector comprised a CMV promoter driving the RNA genome a packaging signal Psi central polypurine tract cPPT antirepressor Element 40 and scaffold attached region SAR an internal U6 and CMV promoter driving the FLIP cassette with the GFP miR30 in antisense orientation. The 3 LTR comprised a deletion of U3 and HIV U5 polyadenylation signal. For example the pLB vector expressing a miR30 targeting firefly luciferase SEQ ID NO 7 .

In one embodiment of this invention a modified pLB vector was constructed resulting in greater expression the vector being schematically depicted in and referred to herein as pLB2.

In this embodiment of the modified vector pLB2 the promoter driving the RNA genome was derived from RSV as opposed to the former CMV. The packaging signal Psi central polypurine tract cPPT antirepressor Element 40 and scaffold attached region SAR were unchanged.

The internal CMV promoter was replaced by Ubiquitin C. The U6 promoter was removed and replaced with the FLIP cassette. The FLIP cassette maintained GFP miR30 in the antisense orientation until reversed by Cre activity.

The 3 LTR was modified as well Deletions of the U3 resulted in self inactivating vectors SIN . The U3 in pLB has 200 nucleotide deletion. The U3 in pLB2 has a 420 nucleotide deletion. The remaining nucleotides in U3 were the minimum required for integration 25 nt and another 20 nt that significantly improved polyadenylation of the integrated viral transcript. The HIV U5 was replaced by a Bovine Growth Hormone Polyadenylation signal.

In addition the FLIP cassette was modified as well in order to include a splice donor and splice acceptor flanking the miR30 such that the miR30 is contained within an artificial intron . By placing the miR30 in an intron miRNA processing was uncoupled from reporter expression such that the miR30 was spliced out of the transcript. schematically depicts the FLIP vector comprising the miRNA in an intron.

The GFP intron miR30 is maintained in the antisense until reversed by Cre action on flanking loxP sites purple and orange arrows . The intron cannot be maintained in the sense orientation of retro lentiviruses as the genome is RNA.

The intron follows the GFP or other marker gene within 30 nucleotides of the STOP codon so as to avoid nonsense mediated decay of the transcript.

In order to determine whether efficient intron splicing from the FLIP vector occurred cellular mRNA was assayed by reverse transcription PCR and expression was compared to PCR of genomic DNA. PCR amplification of only the transcript derived from FLIP vectors occurred which that been reversed by Cre activity . Whereas constructs without an intron produced similarly sized products PCR of mRNA derived from the intron containing sample produced a significantly smaller fragment.

FACS analysis of marker expression was conducted on cells transduced with the pLB2 constructs and compared to pLB construct mediated expression. demonstrates that inclusion of the intron enhanced expression of reporter. While all the constructs when exposed to Cre and assayed by FACS produced GFP cells inclusion in an intron increased expression.

Similarly demonstrates that placement of miR30 in an intron maintains its ability to knock down or diminish target gene expression. miR30 targeting integrin alpha 4 surface protein and assayed by FACS following Cre expression green plot lowered surface alpha 4 expression by about 6 fold as compared to the FLIP vector without Cre orange plot .

The miR30 constructs when placed in an intron produced greater expression of the miRNA and enhanced targeted knockdown in vitro.

Functionally placing the miR30 in an intron increased reporter expression. Such enhanced expression may be attributable to splicing being coupled to mRNA export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and or miR30 processing cleavage and excision of the hairpin and translation being mutually exclusive as miR30 processing results in transcript destruction. By placing miR30 in an intron the processing is uncoupled from translation.

A scheme for generating mice transgenic for pLB2 expression is presented in . Embryonic stem cells ESC that express Cre from the VEGF R2 Flk1 locus which turns on Cre expression at about embryonic day 8 were infected with pLB2 containing the FLIP cassette and transduced cells were selected with puromycin. Using tetraploid complementation the pLB2 infected ES cells were injected to blastocysts and generated embryos derived exclusively from the pLB2 infected ES cells.

Similarly demonstrates embryos derived at stage e9.5 from adult pLB2 FLIP transgenic males crossed to Mox Cre females. Mox Cre is expressed very early in embryos e2 or e3 . Embryos inheriting both the pLB2 vector and Cre exhibited GFP throughout as compared to embryos lacking Cre.

The microRNA in antisense orientation was not processed to generate effective RNAi intermediates nor did the antisense disrupt marker gene translation or virus production indicating that the constructs provide for specific controlled regulation of gene expression.

These constructs represent embodiments of the invention whereby cooperative and or antagonistic relationships can be instituted evaluated and or used for therapy in complex diseases and or conditions.

In order to determine whether regulated expression could be accomplished in adult animals bone marrow reconstitutions were conducted using Cre ER donor marrow infected with FLIP vector puro2AGFP Thy1.1 miRNA s . Three months post transfer of infected bone marrow mice were treated with tamoxifen TMX . Peripheral blood leukocytes were collected 1 week after tamoxifen treatment and analyzed by fluorescent activated cell sorting FACS for changes in marker expression.

Immunoblots of spleens of mice subjected to bone marrow reconstitution with Cre ER donor marrow infected with FLIP vector puro2AGFP Thy1.1 miRNA s were probed for the expression of the knocked down gene product as a measure of the ability to regulate expression. Three months post transfer of infected bone marrow mice were treated with tamoxifen and 1 week later spleens were harvested and sorted for Thy1.1 cells . Each construct effectively resulted in reduced expression of the indicated gene product.

Regulated expression was further evaluated in vivo as well via methods similar to those described in Example 4. Lenti FLIP p53 transgenic mice were crossed to Mox Cre males . Tails of the siblings were visualized with animals expressing Cre failing to exhibit fluorescence. Similarly lenti FLIP p53 transgenic mice crossed to Tie2 Cre hematopietic Cre . B cells isolated stimulated and cultured with or without Doxorubicin were evaluated for fluorescence. GFP cells expressed the p53 knockdown and exhibited a significant growth advantage in the presence of Doxorubicin.

In order to determine whether tissue specific oncogene expression could be accomplished mouse bone marrow reconstitutions with CD19 Cre B cell Cre donor marrow infected with FLIP vector puro2AGFP c Myc miR p53 was accomplished. Fourteen weeks post transfer spleens and lymph nodes of moribund mice were analyzed by FACS for marker expression . Spleen cells were cultured in vitro for 9 days prior to analysis by FACS. Similarly spleen and lymph nodes were assessed for c Myc expression by immunoblot with both organs showing good expression of the oncogene.

Immunoblots of spleens of mice subjected to bone marrow reconstitution with Cre ER It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited by what has been particularly shown and described herein above and that numerous modifications all of which fall within the scope of

