---

title: Methods and systems for underwater navigation
abstract: A method for navigating underwater is disclosed. The method uses a navigation system to project a first velocity measurement along one or more signal beams having a second velocity measurement, where the second velocity measurement is related to at least one of the one or more signal beams. The method determines a position and location of an object associated with the navigation system based on a prediction of at least the second velocity measurement, and the navigation system is adjusted to perform within a prescribed measurement range based on a covariance of the first and second velocity measurements. The performance adjustments made in determining the position and location of the object are operable independent of the navigation system maintaining each of the signal beams due to one or more external environmental conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07778111&OS=07778111&RS=07778111
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07778111
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080319
---
The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the present invention under contract no. N66001 07 C 2004 awarded by the United States Navy and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA .

There are presently various implementations of underwater navigation systems in existence. For example Doppler sonar devices that contain three or more signal beams are operable in a Janus configuration. In a typical Janus configuration information from each of the signal beams is mathematically combined and the beam referenced Doppler velocity measurements are resolved into an orthogonal reference frame. This type of navigation however is subject to navigational drift external environmental conditions and other types of measurement errors which when left unattended lead to inaccurate position depth or distance estimates. For example since two or more beams are combined to compute a single velocity component errors occurring in the signal beam velocity measurements are not easily detectable and the resultant reference frame velocity is less accurate. Moreover velocity bandwidth limitations of the Doppler sonar typically result in erroneous velocity measurements due to signal beam loss or distortion. For example if one or more of the signal beams become unavailable for example due to an obstruction or large attitude excursions causing the beam to not to see the bottom of the water body the velocity measurements are unavailable.

Divers or underwater vehicles that traverse long distances completely underwater are unable to rely on above surface navigational aids and require an accurate navigation system to arrive at their destination with minimum energy expenditure. There is a need in the art for improvements in underwater navigation.

The following specification provides for at least one method and system for underwater navigation. In one embodiment at least one method of navigating underwater uses an underwater navigation system to project a first velocity measurement along one or more signal beams having a second velocity measurement where the second velocity measurement is related to at least one of the one or more signal beams. The method determines a position and location of an object associated with the navigation system based on a prediction of at least the second velocity measurement and the navigation system is adjusted to perform within a prescribed measurement range based on a covariance of the first and second velocity measurements. The performance adjustments made in determining the position and location of the object are operable independent of the navigation system maintaining each of the signal beams due to one or more external environmental conditions.

Embodiments disclosed herein relate to at least one method and system for underwater navigation. In particular the underwater navigation discussed herein relates to methods for measuring position and velocity while surveying underwater terrain or any similar terrain that requires continuous and accurate positioning and depth measurement information. For example a system employing the methods of navigating discussed herein provide accurate and inexpensive navigation and depth measurement capabilities suitable for an individual diver or one or more forms of underwater vehicles.

In one embodiment the system comprises a global positioning system GPS receiver an inertial measurement unit IMU having one or more accelerometers a magnetometer a pressure sensor and a Doppler sonar sensor having one or more sonar signal beams for example up to four signal beams . In typical underwater navigation applications velocity measurements from the Doppler sonar sensor are available at a rate of up to 5 Hz making dynamic oscillatory movements difficult to accurately track. Since the direction of the velocity vectors can change rapidly greater accuracies result when the signal beam prediction methods discussed herein integrate the velocity at a relatively high frequency for example at an operating frequency of the IMU . In one embodiment of a navigation system discussed herein the IMU operates at around 100 Hz a bandwidth considered more ideal under dynamic operating conditions.

In addition the navigation system provides a navigation correction function comprising a Kalman filter operable to filter various sensor inputs in at least one error reduction processing technique for example the Kalman filter corrects previous data points by smoothing out the measurement data . The data smoothing provided by the Kalman filter corrects past navigation results using navigation aiding measurements from the present time to form the navigation correction function. In at least one implementation the navigation system is operable with up to two Doppler sonar beams using the pressure sensor for vertical height stabilization.

In at least one embodiment of the signal beam prediction methods discussed herein integration of the multi beam Doppler sonar sensor with the IMU involves having each beam of the Doppler sonar sensor individually considered a separate measurement. For example a predicted value of the beam velocity is determined by projecting the velocity measurement from the IMU in the direction of the Doppler sonar beam. In addition the beam velocity is compared against the predicted value of the beam velocity and supplied to the Kalman filter. In turn the Kalman filter provides a determination of whether the measurement is substantially reasonable for example when the measurement is considered accurate given external environmental conditions substantially surrounding the navigation system . Moreover the signal beam maintains the velocity projection in the beam direction regardless of the external environmental conditions. For example when a deviation such as encountering a school of fish or area of dense vegetation creates a beam dropout in at least one axis of measurement the velocity projection is not affected and the navigation system continues to accurately track position without interruption.

The system further comprises a main sensor unit and a sensor reference unit each of which is communicatively coupled to the processing unit . In one implementation the main sensor unit comprises an inertial measurement unit IMU and a Doppler sonar . The IMU is configured to provide an inertial position and heading of an object associated with the navigation system and the Doppler sonar is operable to provide one or more sonar signal beams. For example at least one signal beam configuration of the Doppler sonar provides an orientation of the associated object based on a surface adjacent to the object. In one embodiment the IMU is a micro electromechanical systems MEMS based IMU.

In the example embodiment of the sensor reference unit comprises a pressure sensor configured as a first navigational aid a magnetometer configured as a second navigational aid and a global positioning system GPS receiver . In one implementation the GPS receiver is operable to provide an initial position and velocity of the associated object at surface sea level. It is understood that the system is capable of accommodating any appropriate number of navigational sensor types for example one or more IMUs Doppler sonars magnetometers GPS receivers pressure sensors and the like in a single system . In one implementation the second navigational aid the magnetometer is operable to provide an orientation reference based on a surface magnetic field strength and direction.

In operation the processing unit is configured to predict the velocity of the associated object based on an inertial acceleration measured in the main sensor unit and at least one of the sonar signal beams of the Doppler sonar . As discussed in further detail below with respect to the processing unit is further configured to determine the orientation of the at least one sonar signal beam within a prescribed range based on a measurement covariance of the inertial and sonar signal beam velocities and to maintain the velocity prediction of the associated object exclusive of one or more external environmental conditions. For example the first navigational aid the pressure sensor is operable to provide a vertical reference based on a gravitational compensation factor for underwater navigation. In one implementation the system is configured to perform within the prescribed measurement range using at least one of the sonar signal beams and the first navigational aid. For purposes of this description it is noted that the covariance of the inertial and sonar velocities is considered a measure of how the inertial and sonar velocities vary together as an integrated signal beam projection from the system .

In the example embodiment of the system considers each sonar signal beam of the Doppler sonar as individual measurements. For example the predicted value of the sonar signal beam velocity is determined by projecting the inertial velocity provided by the IMU along each of the sonar signal beams. The sonar signal beam velocity provided by each signal beam of the Doppler sonar is compared with the predicted value of the projected velocity in the processing unit as discussed in further detail below with respect to . The processing unit fixes the integrated velocity measurement in the direction of each sonar signal beam. Therefore in situations where erroneous sonar beam information occurs in at least one axis of measurement such as a dropout or encountering a school of fish or weeds the system continues to accurately track position without interruption. Moreover if even a single signal beam is determined to be ineffective the system rejects the ineffective signal beam with near minimal impact.

The Kalman filter blends together measurements from the sensors shown in to improve the navigation state estimate. For example a blending of the navigational data from the IMU which has very good short term high bandwidth characteristics but undesirable long term characteristics with Doppler velocity readings from the Doppler sonar which has low bandwidth but high long term accuracy is advantageous. The Kalman filter follows the typical form as expressed below with respect to Equation 1 Equation 1 Where

In Equation 1 the terms tilde over P and circumflex over P distinguish the values of the covariance matrix P after and before the time update respectively. The last term on the right GQG accounts for the effect of process noise on the growth of the covariance matrix over time. The process noise dynamic coupling matrix G can be used to account for correlations among the components of the noise driving the various elements of the error state. In the example embodiment of the measurement update step of the standard Kalman filter algorithm is illustrated as shown below with respect to Equations 2 and 3 Equation 2 Equation 3 Where

In Equations 2 and 3 the terms tilde over P and circumflex over P distinguish the values before and after the measurement update respectively. In addition the gain K is used to update the estimate of the error state designated as x according to Equation 4 as illustrated below Equation 4 Where

In one implementation the Kalman filter compares the measurement residual y to the expected value of the residual referred to herein as a measurement covariance. For example when the individual beam measurement is compared against the measurement covariance the ability to detect and reject incorrect measurements is formed as illustrated below with respect to Equations 5 and 6 Equation 5 Equation 6 Where 

As shown above with respect to Equations 5 and 6 the measurement residual treats all Doppler sonar beams as independent measurements. In one implementation the process compares the beam velocity to the value predicted by the strapdown navigation processing module and allows the beam measurement residual to be directly compared to the measurement covariance which is quantitatively defined by the Htilde over P H R term of Equation 3. For example any deviations in excess of the statistically expected residual for example 3 sigma or 3 results in a rejected measurement improving the reliability and accuracy of navigation. In addition each Doppler signal beam is processed in as a separate measurement in the measurement sensitivity H matrix of the Kalman filter . Accordingly any single Doppler signal beam is used individually independently of other beams provided by the Doppler sonar . In one embodiment the H matrix of the process is formulated as the matrix of first order partial derivatives for example a Jacobian matrix of the measurement residual matrix as illustrated above with respect to Equation 3. For purposes of this description it is noted that the Jacobian matrix is used to integrate the inertial and sonar measurements when mathematically determining the navigation data provided by the IMU and the Doppler sonar .

In addition the performance adjustments made in determining the position and location of the object are operable independent of the navigation system maintaining each of the signal beams due to one or more external environmental conditions. In one implementation when projecting the first velocity measurement along the one or more signal beams the method isolates the first and second velocity measurements into inertial and sonar velocity components. In the same or at least one alternate implementation when providing the substantially constant navigation data the method compares the prediction of the first and second velocity measurements with the second velocity measurement to adjust the covariance of the first and second velocity measurements in a direction of the at least one signal beam.

In one implementation projecting the navigation velocity measurement comprises isolating the navigation and the sonar beam velocity measurements into inertial first and sonar second velocity measurements. As discussed above with respect to the first and second velocity measurements further include a reference frame velocity measurement within a prescribed measurement range of the system .

To determine an orientation and position of the object the method shown in determines a measurement residual from the predicted beam velocity and the Doppler sonar velocity block . The method compares the measurement residual to a predetermined measurement covariance of the measurement residual block . When the measurement residual exceeds the predetermined measurement covariance block the method rejects the velocity prediction block . The method attempts another prediction beginning again at block . When the measurement residual is within the predetermined measurement covariance for example the measurement residual is considered acceptable the method provides underwater navigation data of the object using the signal beam velocity predictions based in part on a measurement sensitivity of the accepted measurement residual block . As discussed above the navigation system uses the method to maintain the velocity prediction of at least the first velocity measurement along the at least one signal beam independent of the one or more external environmental conditions. Moreover the method allows the system to provide substantially constant navigation data in near real time from the output terminal .

The methods and techniques described herein may be implemented in a combination of digital electronic circuitry and software or firmware residing in a programmable processor. An apparatus embodying these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a programmable processor and a storage medium tangibly embodying program instructions for execution by the programmable processor. A process embodying these techniques may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions that operates on input data and generates appropriate output data. The techniques may be implemented in one or more programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from at least one of a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . In addition storage media suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory and include by way of example semiconductor memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical discs optical discs and other computer readable media. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer a computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

This description has been presented for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Variations and modifications may occur which fall within the scope of the following claims.

