---

title: Integrated nucleic acid assays
abstract: Integrated microfluidic cartridges for nucleic acid extraction, amplification, and detection from clinical samples are disclosed. The devices are single-entry, sanitary, and disposable. The devices enable simplex or multiplex nucleic acid target detection, as for example: assay panels for multiple infectious agents, or assay panels for cancerous cell types. Methods for use of microfluidic cartridges in a fully automated, pneumatically controlled apparatus are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08222023&OS=08222023&RS=08222023
owner: Micronics, Inc.
number: 08222023
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080910
---
This application is a continuation of International PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2007 006584 filed Mar. 15 2007 now pending which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 782 649 filed Mar. 15 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 844 811 filed Sep. 14 2006. These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. UO1 AI061187 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is 660115457C1 SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 6 KB was created on Feb. 4 2009 and is being submitted electronically via EFS Web.

The present invention relates to the general fields of molecular biology and medical science and more particularly to integrated microfluidic cartridges for nucleic acid extraction amplification and detection from clinical samples.

There has been a dramatic transition in clinical laboratory diagnostic assays from the macroscale to the microscale with specimen volume requirements decreasing from milliliters to microliters and the possibility of reducing assay times from hours to minutes.

These improvements are due in part to advances in materials and fabrication to the rapidity of mass and heat transfer at the microscale and to increases in detection sensitivity but also represent a continuing effort at innovation.

The engineering of microfluidic devices continues to be the focus of competitive research and there is a neglected need for improvement in safe handling of fluids. In adapting these devices for clinical diagnosis special features are needed to guard against and detect false positives such as from sample contamination and to protect the operator from exposure to biohazards. Ideally single entry devices are needed that seamlessly integrate sample preparation extraction and analysis without operator exposure.

PCR U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 683 202 and 4 965 188 all incorporated herein by reference is used to increase the concentration of a target nucleic acid sequence in a sample without cloning and requires only the availability of target sequence information sufficient to design suitable forward and reverse oligonucleotide primers typically 10 to 30 base pairs in length. In practice a molar excess of the primer pair is added to the sample containing the desired target or template. The two primers are complementary to 5 and 3 sequences of the template respectively. The mixture is first heated to denature or melt the double stranded target and then allowed to chill down so as to anneal or hybridize forming mixed primer target hybrids. Following hybridization a suitable polymerase can bind to the primer target hybrids and extend the primers along the single stranded template adding bases at the 3 OH end of the primer so as to form a complementary strand. In the presence of both forward and reverse primers a complete copy of the original double stranded target is made. The steps of denaturation hybridization and polymerase extension can be repeated as often as needed to amplify the target copy number by several log orders aiding in its detection. The ultimate number of copies is limited only by the molar quantity of the primers which it is important to recognize are incorporated into the product.

Subsequent to the discovery of PCR other distinct strategies for amplification were described. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 238 to Malek entitled Nucleic Acid Sequence Based Amplification or NASBA see also van Gemen et al. 1993. J Virol Methods 43 177 188 U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 668 to Auerbach entitled Isothermal Methodology U.S. Pat. No. 5 427 930 to Burkenmeyer entitled Ligase Chain Reaction or LCR see also European Patent No. 320308 and Schachter et al. 1994. J Clin Microbiol 32 2540 2543 U.S. Pat. No. 5 455 166 to Walker entitled Strand Displacement Amplification or SDA see also Walker J et al. 1993. PCR Methods and Applications 3 1 6 Lage J M et al. 2003. Hyperbranched strand displacement amplification. Genome Res 13 294 307 Dean F B 2002. Multiple displacement amplification. Proc NAS 99 5261 66 or Detter J C 2004. Isothermal strand displacement amplification. Genomics 80 691 698 transcription mediated amplification see Pfyffer et al. 1996. J Clin Micro 34 834 841 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. These protocols have various advantages in diagnostic assays but PCR remains the workhorse in the molecular biology laboratory.

Semi automated devices for use with the new amplification methodologies followed shortly after the introduction of PCR. The first commercial thermocycler was manufactured under U.S. Pat. No. 5 038 852 to Cetus Corp.

In 1990 the University of Utah U.S. Pat. No. 6 787 338 disclosed a method wherein samples and reagents were drawn into glass capillaries which were sealed and placed in an oven and the temperature was cycled by opening and closing the oven door.

Subsequently the University of Pennsylvania U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 498 392 5 587 128 5 955 029 6 953 675 disclosed microfabricated silicon based devices for performing PCR. Envisaged without particulars was a family of small mass produced typically one use disposable chips for rapid amplification of cellular or microbial nucleic acids in a sample. The devices included a sample inlet port a mesoscale flow system and a means for controlling temperature in one or more reaction chambers. Heating and cooling means disclosed included electrical resistors lasers and cold sinks. Off chip pumps were used to control fluid flow and to deliver reagents. Printed circuits sensors on the chip and pre analytical binding means for trapping and concentrating analyte were suggested. The common fluid channel which also served as the analytical channel was used to transport cell lysis waste such as bacteria or blood cell lysate to an open vent or to an off chip site.

Analytical devices having chambers and flow passages with at least one cross sectional dimension on the order of 0.1 m to 500 m were disclosed. Reaction volumes of 5 L or lower were prophesized.

Means for detecting amplicons included nonspecifically DNA DNA hybridization either visually with fluorescent intercalating dyes or through rheological measurement DNA binding to fluorescent probes or diamagnetic or paramagnetic beads and gel electrophoresis.

While in many ways anticipating current devices the University of Pennsylvania devices were limited to silicon chips with sample and reagent ports under the control of external syringe pumps. Cell lysis debris exited the chip through the PCR chamber prior to amplification and no demonstrable mechanism for isolation of the operator from a biohazardous sample or waste was provided. The design and method did not permit prior on board incorporation of dehydrated reagents as a single entry assay device or kit and notwithstanding any declarations to the contrary clearly the sharing of pump inlet and outlet ports from sample to sample poses an unacceptable risk for cross contamination.

In U.S. Pat. No. 5 234 809 a method of purifying nucleic acids is disclosed that involves treating a biological sample such as blood or stool with a chaotrope in the presence of a solid substrate such as silicon dioxide or other hydrophilic cationic solid. Earlier publications had reported the use of chaotropes and solid substrates to purify nucleic acids from agarose blocks. Depending on the nature of the solid phase the nucleic acid could then be eluted with TE or not. If not PCR could be performed directly on the solid substrate as on nucleic acid trapped on a PVDF membrane. The trapping and eluting step was reported to take about 45 minutes. However the cited time did not include detection of amplicons. No combination of nucleic acid trapping amplification and detection of PCR amplicons in a one step device was disclosed. Interestingly performance of PCR on eluted filtrates from silica filter pads was not claimed. No multiplexed on board detection channel was provided.

In U.S. Pat. No. 5 989 813 amplicons are prepared by amplification of target nucleic acid sequences in the presence of forward and reverse primers conjugated with biotin and digoxigenin respectively for use in lateral flow assays. The amplicons are bound to particles with streptavidin and agglutinate in the presence of antibody to digoxigenin. By lateral flow bifunctional amplicon complexes are detected as trapped aggregates excluded from the fibrous matrix. Other solids are interferences in the assay. In a second variant of the lateral flow format avidin conjugates are wicked into a membrane and migrate until encountering a detection strip. Accumulation of dyed particles at the detection strip is detected. The assays are generally dependent on flow rate in the materials particle size and pore dimensions as well as laminar barriers to diffusion. No multiplexed on board detection utility was provided.

Other designs and methods of PCR thermocycling have since been introduced and patented. U.S. Pat. No. 6 210 882 to the Mayo Clinic described means for non contact heating and cooling for thermocycling reactions. U.S. Pat. No. 5 965 410 to Caliper described means for thermocycling by Joule heating that is by the passage of electric current through the buffer of the reaction vessel. U.S. Patent Application 20040081997 to Caliper described PCR reactions in which primers dNTPs and the target nucleic acid sequence template were first mixed denatured and re annealed before polymerase was added the so called hot start polymerase reaction . Hot Start PCR was earlier suggested to improve product yield and specificity D Aquila et al 1991. Nucleic Acids Res 19 37 49 Chou et al 1992. Nucleic Acids Res 20 1717 1723 Kellogg et al 1994. Biotechniques 16 1134 1137 .

Another system for controlling temperature on a microfluidic device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 541 274. This patent is directed to a reactor system having a plurality of reservoirs in a body. A heat exchanger and circulating pump is connected with the reservoirs to control the temperature. Other examples of existing devices for controlling temperature on a microfluidic device include radiant heat as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 616 a temperature controlled block as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 020 187 and other cumulative improvements still being filed with the USPTO.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 716 842 to Biometra described a reactor having a serpentine linear flow microchannel which crisscrosses heating elements at different temperatures for PCR. U.S. 2001 0046701 to Sentron describes the use of primer attached to particulate reagents for PCR in a serpentine channel followed by absorption enhanced H filtration to recover the amplicons. U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 183 describes a reaction chamber coiled around various heating manifolds.

In U.S. Patent Application 2003008308 CalTech described a rotary microfluidic channel with multiple temperature zones so that thermocycling can be performed by circulation of the reaction mixture around an inventive circular channel. The application also teaches the use of accessory channels formed within an elastomeric material and separated from the flow channel by a section of an elastomeric membrane the membrane being deflectable into or retractable from the substantially circular flow channel in response to an actuation force applied to the control channel Para. 9 FIGS. 3A 3B . These elastomeric elements were termed isolation valves but also served as positive displacement pumps in the devices again by impinging on the fluid channel under positive pneumatic pressure whereby the elastomeric element was reversibly deformed and protruded into the fluid channel in the manner of a series of plunger type peristaltic pump elements. Heating for thermocycling was accomplished with Peltier device resistive heater heat exchanger or an indium tin oxide element. By immobilizing the polymerase in one segment of the circular channel not contacted with a hot heating element use of thermolabile polymerases was suggested.

Proposed detection means included non specifically tagging targets with then known fluorophores e.g. as molecular beacons or FRET tags chromophores radioisotopes luminescence labels mass labels enzyme conjugated oligomeric labels or by gel electrophoresis. Detection by measuring the capacitance of the reaction solution was disclosed.

U.S. Patent Application 20050019792 to Fluidigm described another elastomeric valve. Other details are provided in U.S. Patent Application 20020195152 to Fluidigm. Pneumatic valves were modified to incorporate a platen which compresses a fluid channel in an elastomeric body closing or throttling the channel. Devices consisting of blind flow channels which serve as reaction chambers and are preloaded with reagents at time of manufacture were also proposed.

U.S. Patent Application 20060073484 to Mathies described single channel or dense network microfluidic devices under control of a pneumatic manifold. The method involved the use of immunoaffinity capture of target pathogens followed by lysis and detection by polymerase chain reaction PCR with capillary electrophoresis CE . Pneumatically switchable control valves consisting of a PDMS elastic film sandwiched between a glass fluidic and pneumatic manifold layer with optional via layer interposed were used to either open channels by applying vacuum or close channels by applying pressure see FIG. 1C of U.S. Patent Application 20060073484 . Similar structures were also used as pumps for dispensing reagents see FIG. 5C of U.S. Patent Application 20060073484 . See also William H. Grovera et al. 2003. Monolithic membrane valves and diaphragm pumps for practical large scale integration into glass microfluidic devices. Sensors and Actuators B 89 3 315 323. PDMS films were particularly preferred because silane elastomers bond to the glass plates of these devices.

U.S. Patent Application 20050129582 co assigned to Micronics teaches microfluidic devices having channels valves pumps flow sensors mixing chambers and optical detectors for performance of chemical and biochemical assays and is herein incorporated in full by reference. Improved thermal transitions were disclosed enabling performance of PCR more than 4 times faster than conventional thermocyclers. Thermal ramping rates of up to 17 C sec were demonstrated by selection of suitable plastic substrates and dimensions.

Co assigned patents and patent applications relevant to the development methods for nucleic acid and antibody bioassays in a microfluidic assay format include U.S. Pat. No. 6 743 399 Pumpless Microfluidics U.S. Pat. No. 6 488 896 Microfluidic Analysis Cartridge U.S. Patent Applications 2005 0106066 Microfluidic Devices for Fluid Manipulation and Analysis 2002 0160518 Microfluidic Sedimentation 2003 0124619 Microscale Diffusion Immunoassay 2003 0175990 Microfluidic Channel Network Device 2005 0013732 Method and system for Microfluidic Manipulation Amplification and Analysis of Fluids For example Bacteria Assays and Antiglobulin Testing U.S. Patent Application 2007 0042427 Microfluidic Laminar Flow Detection Strip and unpublished documents Microfluidic Cell Capture and Mixing Circuit Polymer Compositions and Hydrogels Microfluidic Mixing and Analytical Apparatus System and method for diagnosis of infectious diseases and Microscale Diffusion Immunoassay Utilizing Multivalent Reactants all of which are hereby incorporated in full by reference.

Other illustrations of microfluidic devices and their components may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 726 751 5 724 404 5 716 852 5 747 349 5 748 827 5 922 210 5 932 100 5 974 867 5 971 158 5 972 710 5 948 684 6 007 775 6 171 865 and 6 387 290 hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety .

U.S. Pat. No. 5 582 989 teaches the use of multiplex PCR to detect genetic errors in multiple target exons. Purified gDNA was prepared by the standard methods of the time followed by PCR with detection by agarose gel electrophoresis or by Southern blot. A simplified integrated microfluidic approach to genetic analysis was not anticipated.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 582 989 incorporated herein by reference teaches the use of multiplex PCR to detect infectious agents in clinical samples. The key teaching of the procedure is a high salt buffer used to extract the DNA from proteins which are salted out. DNA was then further purified by phenol chloroform extraction before PCR. Finally PCR was performed using a Perkin Elmer 9600 thermocycler Norwalk Conn. USA . The protocol was described as taking about a day to complete. No on board multiplexed detection utility was provided.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 414 to Applera described a two stage assay including a preparative step in which a mixed primer pool was used for preliminary rounds of amplification to no more than 1000 copies per target and the reaction mixture was then split into separate parallel reaction microwells for subsequent second stage amplifications termed boost cycles in which single target specific primer pairs were used. Amplification was followed by detection in separate analytical channels. Microfluidic devices with integrated one step extraction amplification and detection were not anticipated. No on board multiplexed detection utility was provided.

Accordingly there remains an unfulfilled need for an integrated one step microfluidic assay device capable of sample processing and nucleic acid capture amplification of target sequences and detection of positive results. There is a need for devices that deliver results in real time with minimal delay. This need is particularly apparent in the fight against infectious diseases where patients must be evaluated and treated without the option of a return visit where rapid identification of an etiological agent is used for real time monitoring and control of epidemics where specialized facilities for handling biohazardous samples may not be available where the testing must be performed absent skilled microbiologists and where the cost of more complex diagnostic services is prohibitive.

Ease of use would be improved if multiple results were displayed in parallel as for example the results of a panel of tests in a user friendly visual detection chamber.

Physicians faced with a patient having generalized malaise or an unpathognomic syndrome such as gastroenteritis and diarrhoea or the onset of a respiratory syndrome beginning with runny nose or lymphadenitis typically rely on epidemiological and statistical considerations in deciding what to prescribe. However in a world where travelers can arrive from the other side of the world in the space of a night s passing these considerations are often useless.

Etiological agents that produce gastroenteritis diarrhoea dysentery or cholera like symptoms can be clinically confused particularly when presented early in their course and can require laboratory testing. Differential diagnosis of the causative agent can be critical in prescribing proper treatment.

For example diarrhoea caused by enterohemorrhagic often the serotype O157H7 referring to capsular and flagellar antigenic markers might not best be treated with cytolytic antibiotics because the resultant bolus of toxin released when the bacteria lyse can overwhelm the host.

Respiratory pathogens have symptoms that can overlap in clinical examination. Differential diagnosis of the causative agent can be critical in prescribing proper treatment.

For example failure to treat aggressively with bacteriocidal antibiotics can result in permanent damage to the myocardium. Data has conclusively shown that decreased lifespans and increased cardiac related morbidity and mortality is related to untreated strep throat particularly in childhood. In numerous surveys of third world countries lacking access to antibiotics the prevalence of heart disease early in life can be as much as 30 or even 70 of the population.

Therefore in an effort to reduce the pervasive dangers of the spread of infectious diseases we have been lead by a molecular biological nostrum extract amplify detect to design microfluidic devices that are sanitary compact easy to use require small sample volumes and offer differential laboratory diagnosis of a plurality of microbes or viruses in real time at the point of care.

One goal of this project has been the development of a seamless interface between sample preparation amplification and target detection in a microfluidic device. Surprisingly all steps in the assay protocol from extraction of nucleic acid to amplification to detection can be performed in about 4 minutes in a single entry self contained cartridge resembling a card.

Other embodiments include an on board multiplex detection chamber whereby multiple results as from a panel of tests are displayed in a user friendly visual format.

The disclosed single entry microfluidic devices utilize a plurality of microfluidic channels valves filters pumps liquid barriers on board reagent reservoirs and other elements organized as a combination of fluidic subcircuits that extract nucleic acids from the sample amplify putative target nucleic acid sequences and detect assay results in a format accessible to the user.

Pathogens from clinical samples that would have confusing or inconclusive results by gel electrophoresis of amplified products and would require confirmatory Southern Blot are readily identified in minutes by the methods described here.

In current embodiments extraction is accomplished in a microchannel 4 cm or less in length without pretreatment with proteinases or phenol chloroform precipitation and associated centrifugations.

Also disclosed are improvements in the microfluidic device format that address the hazardous nature of the specimens to be analyzed overcoming drawbacks of past devices. In selected embodiments we demonstrate an integrated approach to specimen handling and extraction in disposable single entry devices where the specimen is inserted or pipetted into the device sealed inside and the assay is then conducted without further exposure of the operator to the specimen. On board waste sequestration and decontamination is also provided.

In another aspect of the invention we also show that peptidyl conjugates to the 5 tail of amplification primer sets are generally applicable in polymerase dependent amplification protocols and are further robust surprisingly retaining full antigenicity and binding integrity following amplification. We show that an immobilized antibody for example a monoclonal antibody specific to a peptidyl hapten conjugated amplification primer will capture the target amplicon tagged with the primer. By using a second primer tagged with a second affinity ligand methods employing target specific detection complexes are readily designed. Oligopeptides have not previously been used as primers in PCR amplification or other amplification protocols or used as means for tagging and discriminating mixed PCR products in multiplex target detection protocols. These complexes thus serve essentially as means for interrogating a peptidyl primer amplicon library. Unexpectedly this method has more breadth than prior art methods of tagging primers permitting simultaneous separation and detection of an essentially infinite number of amplicons by the step of tagging each amplicon with a unique peptide hapten and employing the corresponding antibody to immobilize it. The magnetic bead assays illustrated here are one embodiment of this discovery.

Although the following detailed description contains many specific details for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention described below are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

The following definitions are provided as an aid in interpreting the claims and specification herein. Where works are cited by reference and definitions contained therein are inconsistent in part or in whole with those supplied here the definition used therein may supplement but shall not supercede or amend the definition provided herein.

Test samples Representative biosamples include for example blood serum plasma buffy coat saliva wound exudates pus lung and other respiratory aspirates nasal aspirates and washes sinus drainage bronchial lavage fluids sputum medial and inner ear aspirates cyst aspirates cerebral spinal fluid stool diarrhoeal fluid urine tears mammary secretions ovarian contents ascites fluid mucous gastric fluid gastrointestinal contents urethral discharge synovial fluid peritoneal fluid meconium vaginal fluid or discharge amniotic fluid semen penile discharge or the like may be tested. Assay from swabs or lavages representative of mucosal secretions and epithelia are acceptable for example mucosal swabs of the throat tonsils gingival nasal passages vagina urethra rectum lower colon and eyes as are homogenates lysates and digests of tissue specimens of all sorts. Mammalian cells are acceptable samples. Besides physiological fluids samples of water industrial discharges food products milk air filtrates and so forth are also test specimens. In some embodiments test samples are placed directly in the device in other embodiments pre analytical processing is contemplated.

Bioassay Target Molecule or analyte of interest or target molecule may include a nucleic acid a protein an antigen an antibody a carbohydrate a cell component a lipid a receptor ligand a small molecule such as a drug and so forth. Target nucleic acids include genes portions of genes regulatory sequences of genes mRNAs rRNAs tRNAs siRNAs cDNA and may be single stranded double stranded or triple stranded. Some nucleic acid targets have polymorphisms deletions and alternate splice sequences. Multiple target domains may exist in a single molecule for example an immunogen may include multiple antigenic determinants. An antibody includes variable regions constant regions and the Fc region which is of value in immobilizing antibodies.

Pathogenic condition a condition of a mammalian host characterized by the absence of health i.e. a disease infirmity morbidity or a genetic trait associated with potential morbidity.

Nucleic acid The terms nucleic acid polynucleotide and oligonucleotide are used herein to include a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length including but not limited to ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides. Relatively short nucleic acid polymers are often used as primers or probes . The definition encompasses nucleic acids from natural sources which can be methylated or capped and also synthetic forms which can contain substitute or derivatized nucleobases and may be based on a peptide backbone. Nucleic acids are generally polymers of adenosine guanine thymine and cytosine and their deoxy forms but may also contain other pyrimidines such as uracil and xanthine or spacers and universal bases such as deoxyinosine. Deoxynucleic acids may be single stranded or double stranded depending on the presence or absence of complementary sequences and on conditions of pH salt concentration temperature and the presence or absence of certain organic solvents such as formamide n n dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide and n methylpyrrolidinone.

 Target nucleic acid sequence or template As used herein the term target refers to a nucleic acid sequence in a biosample that is to be amplified in the assay by a polymerase and detected. The target molecule can be present as a spike or as an uncharacterized analyte in a sample and may consist of DNA cDNA gDNA RNA mRNA rRNA or miRNA either synthetic or native to an organism. The organism is not limited to a mammal. The target nucleic acid sequence is a template for synthesis of a complementary sequence during amplification. Genomic target sequences are denoted by a listing of the order of the bases listed by convention from 5 end to 3 end.

Reporter Label or Tag refers to a biomolecule or modification of a biomolecule that can be detected by physical chemical electromagnetic and other related analytical techniques. Examples of detectable reporters include but are not limited to radioisotopes fluorophores chromophores mass labels electron dense particles magnetic particles dyed particles QDots spin labels molecules that emit chemiluminescence electrochemically active molecules enzymes cofactors enzymes linked to nucleic acid probes and enzyme substrates. Reporters are used in bioassays as reagents and are often covalently attached to another molecule adsorbed on a solid phase or bound by specific affinity binding.

Ligand any molecule for which there exists another molecule i.e. an antiligand or ligand binding molecule that binds with specific affinity to the ligand with stereochemical recognition or fit of some portion of the ligand by the ligand binding molecule. Forces between ligand and binding molecule are typically Van der Waals hydrogen bond hydrophobic bond and electrostatic bond. Ligand binding is not typically covalent and is thus distinguished from crosslinked and derivatized . As used herein the term ligand is reserved for binding moieties that are not Peptidyl haptens .

Peptidyl hapten Refers to a subclass of haptens that is a peptide fragment. As used herein peptidyl haptens are used with their complementary antibody to the peptide fragment as a means for capturing two tailed amplicons.

Hapten is a molecular key recognized by an antibody and when bound to an immunogenic carrier and introduced into a vertebrate a hapten will elicit formation of antibodies specific for the hapten or epitope. These molecular keys have stereochemical specificity are generally exposed on the surface of the carrier and are of lower molecular weight than the carrier. Illustrative examples include small molecule derivatives of native proteins RNA loop stem structures a drug or steroid such as digoxigenin the carbohydrate side chains that decorate a mucopeptide and short chain peptides or helices of non native proteins such as diphtheria toxin or toxoid. Even a dipeptide or a lipid when conjugated on a suitable immunogenic carrier can produce an antibody response and affinity captured antibody specific to the dipeptide or lipid itself not the immunogen can be produced by absorbing out the non specific antibodies in an antiserum or by preparing a monoclonal antibody by lymphocyte selection. Although a hapten is not immunogenic of itself it has very finely directed immunospecificity and is recognized by a very limited set of complementary antibodies.

As used herein short chain peptides are a preferred hapten for tagging amplicons as used to create peptidyl tagged amplicon libraries because of their robust chemistry compatibility with enzymes as primer labels and essentially infinite immunospecificity.

Capture agent or affinity capture agent is a generic term for a complementary partner in an affinity binding pair and is generally used to capture a ligand or hapten by binding it to a solid phase. Affinity binding pairs include streptavidin biotin antibody antigen hapten antibody and antigen antibody for example and either member of the affinity binding pair may be the capture agent.

Test pad area or test strip or test field or simply test pad as used herein is an area or zone occupied by an affinity capture agent. The area is 3 dimensional at a nanomolecular level and is generally formed on the surface of a substrate in a liquid flow path. The test pad is generally the site in the assay where the assay endpoint is observed or measured and as such may be housed in a detection chamber with optical window.

Heterogeneous capture or immobilization refers use of affinity binding pairs to concentration an analyte or detection complex on a solid phase surface particle or porous adsorbent material. Heterogeneous or solid phase capture may be achieved with capture agents such as immobilized antigen antibody avidin nickel NTA lectin or other ligand receptor systems. As referred to herein the molecular complex formed by heterogeneous capture is the immobilized reporter complex . Such complexes are stabilized by non covalent and cooperative binding.

Immobilized Assays can be built up from reagents that serve to capture and concentrate the analyte at a defined location or surface in the device such as a test pad. The terms immobilize or immobilized as used herein indicate that analyte and affinity capture reagent binding is effectually irreversible under conditions of the assay.

Probe A probe is a nucleic acid capable of binding to a target nucleic acid by complementary base pairing with sufficient complementarity to form a stable double helix at room temperature. Probes may be labeled with reporter groups. Suitable labels that can be attached to probes include but are not limited to radioisotopes fluorophores chromophores mass labels electron dense particles magnetic particles spin labels molecules that emit chemiluminescence electrochemically active molecules enzymes cofactors and enzyme substrates. Tools for selection of a probe sequence length and hybridization conditions are generally familiar to those skilled in the art.

Amplification As used here the term amplification refers to a template dependent process that results in an increase in the concentration of a nucleic acid sequence relative to its initial concentration. A template dependent process is a process that involves template dependent extension of a primer molecule. A primer molecule refers to a sequence of a nucleic acid that is complementary to a known portion of the target sequence. A template dependent extension refers to nucleic acid synthesis of RNA or DNA wherein the sequence of the newly synthesized strand of nucleic acid is dictated by the rules of complementary base pairing of the target nucleic acid and the primers.

Amplicon refers to a double stranded DNA product of a prior art amplification means and includes double stranded DNA products formed from DNA and RNA templates.

Two tailed Amplicon refers to a double stranded DNA product of an amplification means in which tagged primer pairs are covalently incorporated a first primer conjugated with a peptide hapten or epitope a second primer conjugated with an affinity reporter tag or ligand . As used herein the two tailed amplicon functions as a hetero bifunctional tether and forms a molecular detection complex on a solid substrate.

Primer as used herein is a single stranded polynucleotide or polynucleotide conjugate capable of acting as a point of initiation for template directed DNA synthesis in the presence of a suitable polymerase and cofactors. Primers are generally at least 7 nucleotides long and more typically range from 10 to 30 nucleotides in length or longer. The term primer pair refers to a set of primers including a 5 forward or upstream primer that hybridizes with the complement of the 5 end of the DNA template to be amplified and a 3 reverse or downstream primer that hybridizes with the 3 end of the sequence to be amplified. Note that both primers have 5 and 3 ends and that primer extension always occurs in the direction of 5 to 3 . Therefore chemical conjugation at or near the 5 end does not block primer extension by a suitable polymerase. Primers may be referred to as first primer and second primer indicating a primer pair in which the identity of the forward and reverse primers is interchangeable. Additional primers may be used in nested amplification.

In the preferred embodiment the first primer is a monospecific or class specific oligonucleotide conjugated to a peptide hapten or epitope recognized by a specific antibody. And the second primer is an oligonucleotide conjugated to a hapten to a biotin a digoxin a polysaccharide a phycoerythrin dye a fluorphore to an affinity binding agent to an Fc fragment of an antibody to a nickel chelator such as NTA or to a lectin and so forth at or near the 5 terminus. Primers can be selected to be substantially complementary to the sequence on the template to which it is designed to hybridise and serve as a site for the initiation of synthesis.

Polymerases are enzymes defined by their function of incorporating nucleoside triphosphates or deoxynucleoside triphosphates to extend a 3 hydroxyl terminus of a primer molecule. For a general discussion concerning polymerases see Watson J. D. et al 1987 Molecular Biology of the Gene 4th Ed. W. A. Benjamin Inc. Menlo Park Calif. Examples of polymerases include but are not limited to DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment Taq polymerase T7 polymerase T4 polymerase T5 polymerase and reverse transcriptase. Examples of reverse transcriptases include HIV 1 reverse transcriptase from the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 telomerase M MuLV reverse transcriptase from the Moloney murine leukemia virus and AMV reverse transcriptase from the avian myeloblastosis virus.

It should be noted that reverse transcriptase is commonly used in research to apply the polymerase chain reaction technique to RNA targets. The classical PCR technique can only be applied directly to DNA but by using reverse transcriptase to synthesize cDNA from RNA PCR analysis of RNA targets is possible. The technique is collectively called Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction RT PCR .

Complementary with respect to nucleic acids refers to two single stranded nucleic acid sequences that can hybridize to form a double helix. The matching of base pairs in the double helix of two complementary strands is not necessarily absolute. Selectivity of hybridization is a function of temperature of annealing salt concentration and solvent and will generally occur under low stringency when there is as little as 55 identity over a stretch of at least 14 25 nucleotides. Stringency can be increased by methods well known in the art. See M. Kanehisa Nucleic Acids Res. 12 203 1984 . Regarding hybridization of primers a primer that is perfectly complementary has a sequence fully complementary across the entire length of the primer and has no mismatches. A mismatch refers to a site at which the base in the primer and the base in the target nucleic acid with which it is aligned are not complementary.

Complementary with respect to immunobinding refers to antibody immunogen or antibody hapten binding that is immunospecific.

Magnetic Microbead refers to a nanoparticle bead or microsphere or by other terms as known in the art having at least one dimension such as apparent diameter or circumference in the micron or nanometer range. An upper range of such dimensions is 600 um but typically apparent diameter is under 200 nm and may be 1 50 um or 5 20 nm while not limited to such. Such particles may be composed of contain cores of or contain granular domains of a paramagnetic or superparamagnetic material such as the FeOand FeO Fe crystal type FeCo Cobalt CoPt CrPt SmCO Nickel and nickel alloys CuMnAl FeZr NdFeB NoTi for example. Preferred are the Ferrites defined as ferrimagnetic or ceramic compound materials consisting of various mixtures of iron oxides such as Hematite FeO or Magnetite FeO and iron oxides in alloys with other metals. These materials as used generally are particles having dimensions smaller than a magnetic domain and may be formed into particles beads or microspheres with binders such as latex polymers generically silica as is generally well known and inclusive of such materials as are commercially available.

Particularly preferred are nanoparticles of FeOwith diameters in the 50 nm 100 um range as are commercially available for magnetic bioseparations. These particles are superparamagnetic meaning that they are attracted to a magnetic field but retain no residual magnetism after the field is removed. Therefore suspended superparamagnetic particles tagged to the biomaterial of interest can be removed from a matrix using a magnetic field but they do not agglomerate i.e. they stay suspended after removal of the field. Also of interest are nickel and cobalt microbeads. These beads may be reactive with peptides containing histidine.

Paramagnetic beads have the property that they align themselves along magnetic flux lines and are attracted from areas of lower magnetic flux density to areas of higher magnetic flux density.

It should be recognized that magnetic microbeads may be composite materials. Such beads may further contain other micro or nanoparticles agglomerated with a binder. Composites with RF tags QDots up converting fluorophores colloid sols and clays and the like are contemplated for use in the present invention. A magnetic bead need not be formed entirely of a magnetic material but may instead comprise both magnetic and non magnetic materials.

Microbeads may themselves be colloidal and have chromogenic properties or may be combined with other colloidal metal particles with chromogenic properties. Mixed suspensions of differently modified microbeads may be used.

Microbeads are by no means simply commodities. They may be modified with surface active agents such as detergents to control their rheological properties as in ferrofluids. The surface of microbeads may be modified by adsorption or covalent attachment of bioactive molecules including immunoaffinity agents antibodies enzymes dyes fluorescent dyes fluorescent quenchers oligomers peptide nucleomers and the like and more specifically by coating with streptavidin or single stranded DNA oligomers for example. These and other cumulative prior art skills are incorporated herein in full without full recitation of their scope as a full recitation is unnecessary to understand the principles of the current invention except insofar as to recognize that the microbeads of interest herein are comprised of at least one paramagnetic element therein as would be readily recognized by those skilled in the prior arts.

Suitable matrices for microbeads include polystyrene divinylbenzene polyvinyltoluene polyester polyurethane with optional functional groups selected from SO3 COOH NH2 Glycidyl COC OH Cl Tosyl aldehyde and sulfhydryl. Particles often range from 0.3 to 5 um or larger. Latex particles of 100 nm and 1 5 20 50 or 100 um are commercially available in bulk. Silica may be used as a matrix or as a capsule. Derivatized silane includes OH NH2 COOH and more. Particles often range from 0.5 to 3 um. Dextran may also be used as a matrix. Particles often range from 20 50 nm. Polysaccharide may also be used with silane as silica fortified microbeads of particle size around 250 nm. Agarose and cellulose matrices include particles in the range of 1 10 um and may be activated for introduction of functional groups. Protein particles such as of gelatin and albumin have long been used for magnetic microspheres. These are readily activated for amine carboxyl hydroxyl and sulfhydryl linkages with ligands or tags. Liposomes are somewhat more refractory to chemical derivatization but have been used to make magnetic particles. Naked iron oxide and other paramagnetic metal particles are also known and may be derivatized by adding sulfhydryl groups or chelators. These particles often have sizes of 5 to 300 nm. Certain types of particle populations are known to be uniform in size in others the heterogeneity may be controlled or selected.

Such microbeads may be readily prepared. For example carboxyl modified microbeads containing 20 60 magnetite are made by dispersing a magnetite styrene divinylbenzene ferrofluid mixture in water and emulsion polymerizing the monomers to trap the magnetite in a polymer matrix of microbeads of 1 m diameter. The magnetite is thus dispersed throughout the solid beads. Other prior art means for synthesizing and modifying microbeads are commonly known.

Suitable microbeads for practicing the present invention may also be purchased from vendors such as Bang s Laboratories Inc. Fishers Ind. and Polysciences Inc Warrington Pa. as well as numerous suppliers of specialty modified microbeads such as Bioscience Beads West Warwick R.I. . Tradenames of such beads again not as a comprehensive recitation include Estapor SuperParaMagnetic Microspheres COMPEL Uniform Magnetic Microspheres Dynabeads MyOne Microspheres and the like. Cobalt paramagnetic microbeads are sold as Dynabead s MyOne TALON. BioMag Plus microbeads from Polysciences have an irregular shape and thus more surface area for affinity chemistry.

Populations of microbeads are generally used to assay populations of assay targets. A population as used herein refers to a set of members sharing some common element or property. For example a population of beads may be similar in that the beads share a common tag such as an avidin coat or a barcode. A population of nucleic acids comprising an assay target may simply share a target nucleic acid sequence or may contain a common tag. A population of antibodies may share a common specificity. And so forth.

Paramagnetic and Superparamagnetic are taken as functionally synonymous for the present purposes. These materials when fabricated as microbeads have the property of responding to an external magnetic field when present but dissipating any residual magnetism immediately upon release of the external magnetic field and are thus easily resuspended and remain monodisperse but when placed in proximity to a magnetic field clump tightly the process being fully reversible by simply removing the magnetic field.

Magnetic Force Field is the volume defined by the magnetic flux lines between two poles of a magnet or two faces of a coil. Electromagnets and driving circuitry can be used to generate magnetic fields and localized magnetic fields. Permanent magnets may also be used. Preferred permanent magnetic materials include NdFeB Neodymium Iron Boron NdFeB Ferrite Strontium or Barium Ferrite AlNiCo Aluminum Nickel Cobalt and SmCo Samarium Cobalt . The magnetic forces within a magnetic force field follow the lines of magnetic flux. Magnetic forces are strongest where magnetic flux is most dense. Magnetic force fields penetrate most solids and liquids. A moving magnetic force field has two vectors one in the direction of travel of the field and the other in the direction of the lines of magnetic flux.

Reagent refers broadly to any chemical or biochemical agent used in a reaction including enzymes. A reagent can include a single agent which itself can be monitored e.g. a substance that is monitored as it is heated or a mixture of two or more agents. A reagent may be living e.g. a cell or non living. Exemplary reagents for a nucleic acid amplification reaction include but are not limited to buffer metal ion for example magnesium salt chelator polymerase primer template nucleotide triphosphate label dye nuclease inhibitor and the like. Reagents for enzyme reactions include for example substrates chromogens cofactors coupling enzymes buffer metal ions inhibitors and activators. Not all reagents are reactants.

Robustness refers to the relative tolerance of an assay format to variability in execution to materials substitutions and to interferences over a range of assay conditions. Robustness generally increases with the strength of the detection signal generated by a positive result. Robustness negatively correlates with the difficulty and complexity of the assay.

Specificity Refers to the ability of an assay to reliably differentiate a true positive signal of the target biomarker from any background erroneous or interfering signals.

Sensitivity Refers to the lower limit of detection of an assay where a negative can no longer be reliably distinguished from a positive.

Stability during storage any compositional change measured in a parameter for example activity concentration degradation viscosity pH or particle composition that is greater than 10 over time denotes instability. Changes less than or equal to 10 connote stability. The time period over which stability is measured is relative depending on the intended utility of the composition. Accelerated stability at higher temperature is sometimes taken as a more speedy way of extrapolating stability over longer periods of time than are actually measured.

Endpoint Endpoint or datapoint is used here as shorthand for a result from either qualitative or quantitative assays and may refer to both stable endpoints where a constant plateau or level of reactant is attained and to rate reactions where the rate of appearance or disappearance of a reactant or product as a function of time i.e. the slope is the datapoint.

Microfluidic cartridge a device card or chip with fluidic structures and internal channels having microfluidic dimensions. These fluidic structures may include chambers valves vents vias pumps inlets nipples and detection means for example. Generally microfluidic channels are fluid passages having at least one internal cross sectional dimension that is less than about 500 m and typically between about 0.1 m and about 500 m but we extend the upper limit of the range to 600 um because the macroscopic character of the bead suspensions used here have a dramatic effect on the microfluidic flow regime particularly as it relates to restrictions in the fluid path. Therefore as defined herein microfluidic channels are fluid passages having at least one internal cross sectional dimension that is less than 600 um. The microfluidic flow regime is characterized by Poiseuille or laminar flow. The particle volume fraction and ratio of channel diameter to particle diameter D d has a measurable effect on flow characteristics. See for example Staben M E et al. 2005. Particle transport in Poiseuille flow in narrow channels. Intl J Multiphase Flow 31 529 47 and references cited therein .

Microfluidic cartridges may be fabricated from various materials using techniques such as laser stenciling embossing stamping injection molding masking etching and three dimensional soft lithography. Laminated microfluidic cartridges are further fabricated with adhesive interlayers or by thermal adhesiveless bonding techniques such by pressure treatment of oriented polypropylene. The microarchitecture of laminated and molded microfluidic cartridges can differ.

Microfluidic channel also termed microchannel is a fluid channel having variable length but one dimension in cross section less than 500 um. Microfluidic fluid flow behavior in a microfluidic channel is highly non ideal and laminar and may be more dependent on wall wetting properties roughness liquid viscosity adhesion and cohesion than on pressure drop from end to end or cross sectional area. The microfluidic flow regime is often associated with the presence of virtual liquid walls in the channel. However in larger channels head pressures of 10 psi or more can generate transitional flow regimes bordering on turbulent as can be important in rinse steps of assays.

Microchannels constructed of layers formed by extrusion molding may have more rounded channel profiles and a radius on each via . The internal channel surfaces of injection molded parts are also somewhat smoother. The flow characteristics of the channels are significant because of the profound surface effects in the microflow regime. Surface tension and viscosity compound surface roughness effects. The most narrow dimension of a channel has the most profound effect on flow. It follows that flow in channels that are based on rectangular or circular cross sectional profiles is controlled by the diagonal width or diameter and design is typically varied to take advantage of this behavior. Reduction of taper in the direction of flow leads to a wicking effect for diameters below 200 microns. Conversely flow can be stopped by opening up a channel to form a bulb unless pressure is applied. Vias in a channel can be designed to promote directional flow a sort of solid state check valve.

Microfluidic pumps include for example bulbs bellows diaphragms or bubbles intended to force movement of fluids where the substructures of the pump have a thicknesses or other dimension of less than 1 millimeter. Such pumps include the mechanically actuated recirculating pumps described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 743 399 to Weigl and U.S. 2005 0106066 to Saltsman commonly assigned to the applicant. Such pumps may be robotically operated or operated by hand. Electroosmotic pumps are also provided. Such pumps can be used in place of external drives to propulse the flow of solubilized reagents and sample in microfluidic device based assays.

Bellows Pump is a device formed as a cavity often cylindrical in shape bisected in coronal section by an elastomeric diaphragm to form a first and a second half chamber which are not fluidically connected. The diaphragm is controlled by a pneumatic pulse generator connected to the first half chamber. Positive pressure above the diaphragm distends it displacing the contents of the second half chamber negative gauge pressure suction retracts it expanding the second half chamber and drawing fluid in. By half chamber it should be understood that the effective area of the diaphragm is the lesser of the volume displacement under positive pressure and the volume displacement under suction pressure and it thus optimal when the first and second half chambers are roughly symmetrical or equal in volume above and below the diaphragm. The second half chamber is connected to a fluid in port and out port. The fluid in port and out port may be separate ports or a single port but in either case are under valve control. As described above a pneumatic pulse generator is pneumatically connected to the first half chamber generally by a microchannel which is also valved. In the complete apparatus pneumatic actuation is programmable. Thus programmable pneumatic pressure logic used by the pulse generator has two functions to actuate the diaphragm on signal and to open and close valves on signal. When the pulse generator is off cartridge nipples or inlets a pneumatic manifold and solenoid valves are provided.

In use fluid enters the second half chamber of a bellows pump through the inlet valve when negative pressure is applied to the diaphragm or passively when fluid is pushed in by a second bellows pump . Then when positive pressure is applied to the diaphragm the fluid contents of the chamber are displaced out through the outlet valve. Similarly positive and negative pressure signals control valve opening and closing. By supplying a train of positive and negative pressure pulses to a diaphragm fluid can be moved in and out of a bellows pump chamber. This fluid motion becomes directional by the application of synchronized valve logic thus the pumping action.

Pairs of bellows pumps i.e. dual bellows pumps can mix suspensions of beads or particles in fluids when configured with a first diaphragm pressure actuated and a second diaphragm passive so as to force reciprocating flow between the two bellows chambers after the inlet and outlet valves are closed. Reciprocating flow can also be obtained by synchronously actuating both diaphragms with alternating or inverted pneumatic pulses. Similarly a multiplicity of bellows pumps can be fluidly connected in series to perform a mixing function.

Microfluidic valves include a genus of hydraulic mechanic pneumatic magnetic and electrostatic actuator flow controllers with at least one dimension smaller than 500 um. A representative flap valve of the genus is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 431 212. Also included are check valves. One class of valves refers to a configuration in which a flow channel and a control channel intersect and are separated by an elastomeric membrane that can be deflected into or retracted from the flow channel in response to an actuation force in the control channel. Patents describing species of microfluidic valves include U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 971 355 6 418 968 6 518 99 6 620 273 6 748 975 6 767 194 6 901 949 and U.S. Patent Application 2002 0195152 and 2005 02005816 several of which are commonly assigned to the applicant and all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Check valve is a one way valve. Microscale versions of ball spring flap and flip flop valves are check valves.

Passive shut off valves are wettable inserts or coatings in microfluidic channels that swell when immersed closing the microchannel off to further flow in either direction. Analogously surface tension valves consisting of a ring of hydrophobic material on the walls of a microchannel have been disclosed to delay or stop the flow of a reagent. Stop flow can also be achieved by widening the taper of a microfluidic channel diameter.

Self priming connotes a microfluidic channel that is fabricated from a material or is treated so that the channel is wettable and capillary flow begins generally without the need to prime the channel.

Via A step in a microfluidic channel that provides a fluid pathway from one substrate layer to another substrate layer above or below characteristic of laminated devices built from layers.

 Air ports refer to the arms of a pneumatic manifold under programmable control of external servomechanisms. The pneumatic manifold may be charged with positive or negative gauge pressure. Operating pressures of 5 to 10 psig have been found to be satisfactory.

Squeeze bulbs are micro basting devices that when squeezed serve to generate a hydraulic pressure head in a microfluidic device and to promote mixing and may be made of polyurethane for example.

Pillow an on board reagent pack formed from a deformable sacculus for example a mylar microbag optionally enclosed in a pneumatically actuated device for puncturing to bag to release its contents at a controlled time. Co laminates of a metal and a plastic are preferred for stability considerations.

Blister pack an on board reagent pack under a deformable or elastic diaphragm. Used to deliver reagents by pressurizing the diaphragm and may appose a sharp such as a metal chevron so that pressure on the diaphragm ruptures the pillow see pillow . These may be used with check valves or closable vents to produce directional fluid flow and reagent delivery. Elastic diaphragms are readily obtained from polyurethane polysilicone and polybutadiene and nitrile for example see elastomer . Deformable inelastic diaphragms are made with polyethylene terephthalate PET mylar polypropylene polycarbonate or nylon for example. Other suitable materials for the deformable film include parafilm latex foil and polyethylene terephthalate. Key factors in selecting a deformable film include the yield point and the deformation relaxation coefficient elastic modulus .

Use of these devices permits delivery or acceptance of a fluid while isolating the contents of the microfluidic device from the external environment and protecting the user from exposure to the fluid contents.

Isolation or isolated Forward isolation refers here to protection of the user from exposure to clinical materials potentially contaminated with an infectious agent or toxin. Reverse isolation refers to protection of the assay device from spurious exogenous contamination such as with a nucleic acid that may cause false positives.

Single entry refers to a microfluidic device card or cartridge that requires or permits only a single introduction of sample and the assay is then conducted within a self contained sealed system. Such devices optionally contain a device for sealing or locking the sample port and an on board means for disinfecting the contents of the device and any waste following completion of the assay. In one embodiment the device can be discarded after use without special precautions.

Waste chamber or pack is a cavity or chamber that serves as a receptacle for sequestering discharged sample rinse solution and waste reagents. Typically also includes a wicking material see wick . Waste packs may also be sealed under an elastic isolation membrane sealingly attached to the body of the microfluidic device. This inner membrane expands as the bibulous material expands thus enclosing the waste material. The cavity outside the isolation membrane is vented to atmosphere so that the waste material is contained and isolated. Waste packs may optionally contain dried or liquid sterilants.

Wick is a bibulous material used to propulse fluid flow by capillary wetting in place of or in concert with microfluidic pumps. The bibulous core typically includes a fibrous web of natural or synthetic fibers and also often includes certain absorbent gelling materials usually referred to as hydrogels superabsorbent or hydrocolloid materials. Materials include papers sponges diaper materials Contec Wipe and others. Dessicants may also be used such as calcium sulfate calcium sulfate silica gel alone or in combination with bibulous materials.

Vent a pore intercommunicating between an internal cavity and the atmosphere. A sanitary or isolation vent also contains a filter element that is permeable to gas but is hydrophobic and resists wetting. Optionally these filter elements have pore diameters of 0.45 microns or less. These filters function both in forward and reverse isolation. Filter elements of this type and construction may also be placed internally for example to isolate a valve or bellows pump from the pneumatic manifold controlling it.

Test field refers to the site in the microfluidic device based assay where the assay endpoint is observed or measured such as an optical window and is optionally a detection chamber containing test pads.

Nucleic Acid Target Capture Assembly refers to a combination of a solid phase nucleic acid affinity binding substrate and a means for positioning the binding substrate in the fluid path of a microfluidic device. Binding substrates include filters beads frits fluidized beds and solid surfaces in general. Materials include silica derivatized silica alumina zirconia treated latex beads and the like. Means for positioning can be as simple as direct deposition of beads in a microfluidic channel or more complex such as by mounting a filter membrane or frit in the fluid path of the channel. A filter membrane can be inserted in a cutout in a layer can be glued in place can be fitted in place in the manner of a filter plug or can be contained in a pre assembled housing and pressure fitted in place. A frit is generally pressure fitted or etched in place.

Elastomer In general elastomers deform when force is applied but then return to their original shape when the force is removed. The elasticity exhibited by elastomeric materials can be characterized by a Young s modulus. Elastomeric materials utilized in the microfluidic devices disclosed herein typically have a Young s modulus of between about 1 Pa 1 TPa in other instances between about 10 Pa 100 GPa in still other instances between about 20 Pa 1 GPa in yet other instances between about 50 Pa 10 MPa and in certain instances between about 100 Pa 1 MPa. Elastomeric materials having a Young s modulus outside of these ranges can also be utilized depending upon the needs of a particular application.

Some microfluidic devices described herein are fabricated from an elastomeric polymer such as polyisoprene polybutadiene polychlorophene polyisobutylene poly styrene butadiene styrene nitriles the polyurethanes and the polysilicones. GE RTV 615 a vinyl silane crosslinked type silicone elastomer family and polydimethysiloxane PDMS membrane available HT 6135 and HT 6240 membranes from Bisco Silicons Elk Grove Ill. are useful in selected applications. The choice of materials typically depends upon the particular material properties e.g. solvent resistance stiffness gas permeability and or temperature stability required for the application being conducted. Additional elastomeric materials that can be used in the manufacture of the components of the microfluidic devices described in Unger et al 2000 Science 288 113 116. Some elastomers of the present devices are used as diaphragms and in addition to their stretch and relax properties are also selected for their porosity impermeability chemical resistance and their wetting and passivating characteristics. Other elastomers are selected for their thermal conductivity. Micronics Parker Chomerics Thermagap material 61 02 0404 F574 0.020 thick is a soft elastomer 

Lateral flow Assay refers to a class of conventional assays wherein particle aggregation agglutination or binding is detected by applying a particle containing fluid to a fibrous layer such as a permeable membrane and observing the chromatographic properties as the particles and particle aggregates move into and through the material. Penetration of clumps of particles is impeded whereas free particles penetrate between the fibers. Similarly free particles may accumulate as clumps in zones of the fibrous layer treated with affinity binding agents. The devices and methods described here are not lateral flow assays.

 Conventional is a term designating that which is known in the prior art to which this invention relates.

 About and generally are broadening expressions of inexactitude describing a condition of being more or less approximately or almost in the sense of just about where variation would be insignificant obvious or of equivalent utility or function and further indicating the existence of obvious minor exceptions to a norm rule or limit.

Herein where a means for a function is described it should be understood that the scope of the invention is not limited to the mode or modes illustrated in the drawings alone but also encompasses all means for performing the function that are described in this specification and all other means commonly known in the art at the time of filing. A prior art means encompasses all means for performing the function as are known to one skilled in the art at the time of filing including the cumulative knowledge in the art cited herein by reference to a few examples.

Means for extracting refers to various cited elements of a device such as a solid substrate filter filter plug bead bed frit or column for capturing target nucleic acids from a biological sample and includes the cumulative knowledge in the art cited herein by reference to a few examples.

A means for polymerizing for example may refer to various species of molecular machinery described as polymerases and their cofactors and substrates for example reverse transcriptases and TAQ polymerase and includes the cumulative knowledge of enzymology cited herein by reference to a few examples.

Means for Amplifying include thermocycling and isothermal means. The first thermocycling technique was the polymerase chain reaction referred to as PCR which is described in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 683 202 and 4 800 159 Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley and Sons Baltimore Md. 1989 and in Innis et al. PCR Protocols Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. 1990 . Polymerase chain reaction methodologies are well known in the art. Briefly in PCR two primer sequences are prepared that are complementary to regions on opposite complementary strands of a target sequence. An excess of deoxynucleoside triphosphates are added to a reaction mixture along with a DNA polymerase e.g. Taq polymerase. If the target sequence is present in a sample the primers will bind to the target and the polymerase will cause the primers to be extended along the marker sequence by adding on nucleotides. By raising and lowering the temperature of the reaction mixture the extended primers will dissociate from the template to form reaction products excess primers will bind to the template and to the reaction products and the process is repeated. By adding fluorescent intercalating agents PCR products can be detected in real time.

One isothermal technique is LAMP loop mediated isothermal amplification of DNA and is described in Notomi T. et al. Nucl Acid Res 2000 28 e63.

strand Displacement Amplification SDA is another method of carrying out isothermal amplification of nucleic acids which involves multiple rounds of strand displacement and synthesis i.e. nick translation Walker et al. Nucleic Acids Research 1992 1691 1696 . A similar method called Repair Chain Reaction RCR involves annealing several probes throughout a region targeted for amplification followed by a repair reaction in which only two of the four bases are present. The other two bases can be added as biotinylated derivatives for easy detection. A similar approach is used in SDA. Target specific sequences can also be detected using a cyclic probe reaction CPR . In CPR a probe having 3 and 5 sequences of non specific DNA and a middle sequence of specific RNA is hybridized to DNA that is present in a sample. Upon hybridization the reaction is treated with RNase H and the products of the probe identified as distinctive products that are released after digestion. The original template is annealed to another cycling probe and the reaction is repeated.

Another nucleic acid amplification technique is reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR . First complementary DNA cDNA is made from an RNA template using a reverse transcriptase enzyme and then PCR is performed on the resultant cDNA.

Another method for amplification is the ligase chain reaction LCR disclosed in EPO No. 320 308. In LCR two complementary probe pairs are prepared and in the presence of the target sequence each pair will bind to opposite complementary strands of the target such that they abut. In the presence of a ligase the two probe pairs will link to form a single unit. By temperature cycling as in PCR bound ligated units dissociate from the target and then serve as target sequences for ligation of excess probe pairs. U.S. Pat. No. 4 883 750 describes a method similar to LCR for binding probe pairs to a target sequence.

Q Replicase may also be used as still another amplification method in the present invention. In this method a replicative sequence of RNA that has a region complementary to that of a target is added to a sample in the presence of an RNA polymerase. The polymerase will copy the replicative sequence that can then be detected.

Still further amplification methods described in GB Application No. 2 202 328 and in PCT Application No. PCT US89 01025 may be used in accordance with the present invention. In the former application modified primers are used in a PCR like template and enzyme dependent synthesis. The primers may be modified by labeling with a capture moiety e.g. biotin and or a detector moiety e.g. enzyme . In the latter application an excess of labeled probes are added to a sample. In the presence of the target sequence the probe binds and is cleaved catalytically. After cleavage the target sequence is released intact to be bound by excess probe. Cleavage of the labeled probe signals the presence of the target sequence.

Other nucleic acid amplification procedures include transcription based amplification systems TAS including nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA and 3SR Kwoh et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86 1173 Gingeras et al. PCT Application WO 88 10315 . In NASBA the nucleic acids can be prepared for amplification by standard phenol chloroform extraction heat denaturation of a clinical sample treatment with lysis buffer and minispin columns for isolation of DNA and RNA or guanidinium chloride extraction of RNA. These amplification techniques involve annealing a primer which has target specific sequences. Following polymerization DNA RNA hybrids are digested with RNase H while double stranded DNA molecules are heat denatured again. In either case the single stranded DNA is made fully double stranded by addition of second target specific primer followed by polymerization. The double stranded DNA molecules are then multiply transcribed by an RNA polymerase such as T7 or SP6. In an isothermal cyclic reaction the RNAs are reverse transcribed into single stranded DNA which is then converted to double stranded DNA and then transcribed once again with an RNA polymerase such as T7 or SP6. The resulting products whether truncated or complete indicate target specific sequences.

Davey et al. EPO No. 329 822 disclose a nucleic acid amplification process involving cyclically synthesizing single stranded RNA ssRNA ssDNA and double stranded DNA dsDNA which may be used in accordance with the present invention. The ssRNA is a template for a first primer oligonucleotide which is elongated by reverse transcriptase RNA dependent DNA polymerase . The RNA is then removed from the resulting DNA RNA duplex by the action of ribonuclease H RNase H an RNase specific for RNA in duplex with either DNA or RNA . The resultant ssDNA is a template for a second primer which also includes the sequences of an RNA polymerase promoter exemplified by T7 RNA polymerase 5 to its homology to the template. This primer is then extended by DNA polymerase exemplified by the large Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase D resulting in a double stranded DNA dsDNA molecule having a sequence identical to that of the original RNA between the primers and having additionally at one end a promoter sequence. This promoter sequence can be used by the appropriate RNA polymerase to make many RNA copies of the DNA. These copies can then re enter the cycle leading to very swift amplification. With proper choice of enzymes this amplification can be done isothermally without addition of enzymes at each cycle. Because of the cyclical nature of this process the starting sequence can be chosen to be in the form of either DNA or RNA.

Miller et al. in PCT Application WO 89 06700 disclose a nucleic acid sequence amplification scheme based on the hybridization of a promoter primer sequence to a target single stranded DNA ssDNA followed by transcription of many RNA copies of the sequence. This scheme is not cyclic i.e. new templates are not produced from the resultant RNA transcripts. Other amplification methods include RACE and one sided PCR Frohman M. A. In PCR Protocols A Guide to Methods and Applications Academic Press N.Y. 1990 Ohara et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86 5673 567 .

Methods based on ligation of two or more oligonucleotides in the presence of nucleic acid having the sequence of the resulting di oligonucleotide thereby amplifying the di oligonucleotide may also be used in the amplification step of the present invention. Wu et al. 1989 Genomics 4 560 .

Means for detecting as used herein refers to an apparatus for displaying an endpoint i.e. the result of an assay and may include a detection channel and test pads and a means for evaluation of a detection endpoint. Detection endpoints are evaluated by an observer visually in a test field or by a machine equipped with a spectrophotometer fluorometer luminometer photomultiplier tube photodiode nephlometer photon counter voltmeter ammeter pH meter capacitative sensor radio frequency transmitter magnetoresistometer or Hall effect device. Magnetic particles beads and microspheres having or impregnated color or having a higher diffraction index may be used to facilitate visual or machine enhanced detection of an assay endpoint. Magnifying lenses in the cover plate optical filters colored fluids and labeling may be used to improve detection and interpretation of assay results. Means for detection of magnetic particles beads and microspheres may also include embedded or coated labels or tags such as but not limited to dyes such as chromophores and fluorophores radio frequency tags plasmon resonance spintronic radiolabel Raman scattering chemoluminescence or inductive moment as are known in the prior art. Colloidal particles with unique chromogenic signatures depending on their self association are also anticipated to provide detectable endpoints. QDots such as CdSe coated with ZnS decorated on magnetic beads or amalgamations of QDots and paramagnetic FeOmicroparticles optionally in a sol gel microparticulate matrix or prepared in a reverse emulsion are a convenient method of improving the sensitivity of an assay of the present invention thereby permitting smaller test pads and larger arrays. Fluorescence quenching detection endpoints are also anticipated. A variety of substrate and product chromophores associated with enzyme linked immunoassays are also well known in the art and provide a means for amplifying a detection signal so as to improve the sensitivity of the assay. Detection systems are optionally qualitative quantitative or semi quantitative. Visual detection is preferred for its simplicity however detection means can involve visual detection machine detection manual detection or automated detection.

Means for heating and cooling A number of means for thermocycling a liquid filled chamber have been described in the prior art. These prior art means include convective and conductive heating elements such as electroresistors hot air lasers infrared radiation Joule heating TEC or Peltier devices heat pumps endothermic reactants and the like generally in conjunction with a heat sink for dissipating heat during chill down parts of the cycle. Heating means may also include heating by the motion of magnetic beads driven by a high frequency magnetic field.

Heating and cooling devices for thermocycling fall into two categories ramped and fixed temperature. Fixed temperature devices maintain a relatively constant temperature in a reaction and at least two reaction chambers are needed for thermocycling. Ramped heating devices will vary the temperature between at least two set points and therefore only one reaction chamber is required for thermocycling. Combinations of heating elements are possible. Peltier devices may be used for both fixed temperature and ramped applications. Water baths are not well adapted to ramped temperature control for thermocycling.

Generally heating and cooling means interface with a fluidics member so as to effect heat exchange with the liquid contents. For PCR the relevant elements forming the microfluidic channels or chambers where heat exchange takes place are termed as part of the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly.

Means for isolating include impermeable cartridge body gas permeable hydrophobic venting bibulous padding in waste chamber disinfectant in waste chamber elastomeric membrane separating pneumatic actuator from blister pack valve with elastomeric membrane actuated by suction pressure suction pressure in said sample entry port rubberized nipple in sample entry port snap lock closure over sample entry port on board reagent pack and single entry sample port.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The assays of the present invention have three stages extraction amplification and detection. The microfluidic devices disclosed here are formed from three fluidic subcircuits corresponding to these functions integrated together in a single device.

Referring now to the figures is a schematic of a microfluidic subcircuit for sample processing and nucleic acid extraction. Sample for example stool urine whole blood or plasma can be fluid solid or a mixture of both. In one embodiment fluid sample is pipetted or drawn into a liquid sample port. In another embodiment sample is first fluidized and then introduced into a liquid sample port. In another embodiment a swab having the material of interest is inserted into a chamber within the device the neck of the swab is then broken off and the device is sealed as in . Pretreatment is envisaged when necessary.

Following introduction of the sample into the device in the integrated devices of the invention the remaining assay steps are automated or semi automated. The device contains safeguards to prevent operator exposure to biohazardous material after the device is sealed.

A bellows pump and associated check valves is optionally used to effect fluid transport. Capillary action or wicking may also be used.

To remove vegetable mucous and unwanted particulate matter fluidized sample is optionally pre filtered through a depth filter for example made of polypropylene fibers and then mixed with lysis buffer to release the target nucleic acid contents from associated debris and contaminants. Optionally the prefilter may be used to separate the cellular and plasma components of blood.

Lysis buffer in the lysis buffer pouch contains a chaotrope in combination with a detergent to reduce associations between nucleic acids and adherent molecules and optionally contains a nuclease inhibitor and chelator such as EDTA to reduce nucleic acid degradation prior to wash.

We have used 4.5M guanidinium thiocyanate GSCN in combination with detergents such as sarcosine and Triton X 100 with weakly acidic buffer to remove sufficient hemoglobin from whole blood so as to render the nucleic acid suitable for PCR. The method is also successful with stool. Gram negative bacteria are lysed with this treatment.

Mixing of the sample and the lysis buffer at the microscale requires ingenuity. Adaptation of biochemistry to microscale fluid reactors has required novel engineering. In our experience for example a preferred mixing mechanism in the microfluidic devices of the present invention is a reduction in one cross sectional dimension of a channel so as to approach expected diffusional path lengths at achievable linear flow velocities. Generally this is done in laminated or molded devices by holding microfluidic channel width constant and reducing the depth of the channel from about 75 microns 3 mil to about 25 microns 1 mil . The practice ensures that macromolecules and solutes adequately mix over a predictable length of microchannel at manageable head or suction pressures P of generally less than or equal to 10 psig. Pneumatic actuators are provided so as to permit refluxing solution between the lysis chamber and the lysis buffer pouch. Elastomeric membranes ensure forward and reverse isolation.

The lysate is then passed through a nucleic acid target capture assembly which has non specific reversible affinity for nucleic acids. The target capture material is generally an electropositive hydrophilic material typically also rich in hydroxyl groups. Suitable target capture materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 234 809 which is incorporated herein in full by reference. The target capture assembly may be for example a silica surface a fiber matrix or filter composed of materials such as silica a bed of silica or aluminum oxide beads a fritted plug of derivatized zirconium and the like adapted to the dimensions hydrostatic pressures and flow rates of a microfluidic device. Beads may be coarse or fine but are preferably generally homogeneous in size. Fibers may be coarse or fine and loosely packed or tightly packed as is required to obtain the necessary surface to volume ratio flow rate and acceptable pressure drop. Means for sealing the fiber pad to the walls of a microfluidic chamber include rabbet or mortise construction gasket or adhesive as sealant plastic solvent or sonic welding pressure fit or elements of prepackaged modular construction that can be snap fit into place so that all fluid must egress through the filter bed. For membrane filters supporting ribs may be microfabricated with a laser.

Following discharge of the lysate from the nucleic acid target capture assembly to waste under control of a valve the retentate is then rinsed with wash reagent from the solvent wash pouch and the wash reagent is also discharged to waste under valve control. Wash reagent can consist of anhydrous ethanol 70 to 95 ethanol in water acetone or acetone ethanol water mixtures optionally with buffer. The solvent is stored on board in a foil lined blister pack which is punctured at a programmed time under pneumatic control so that the contents wash the nucleic acid target capture assembly retentate and pass to waste. Wash reagent removes lipids EDTA and salts not compatible with PCR amplification while precipitating nucleic acids. After the wash rinse is completed the target capture material is briefly dried under a stream of sterile filtered air to remove residual ethanol or acetone.

Following satisfactory washing the nucleic acid retentate is eluted from the target capture member with elution buffer from the elution buffer pouch. Slug elution is one procedure that optimizes recovery through use of the chamber diaphragm so that elution buffer flows back and forth over the target capture member before passing into the amplification subcircuits as will be shown in .

This procedure yields nucleic acids that can be used in PCR immediately without the need for intermediate isolation or purification as was a drawback of earlier procedures. The elution buffer containing target nucleic acids is used directly to rehydrate a dried PCR mix containing reagents and enzymes whereupon PCR is commenced. Other means for amplification are also contemplated.

Serendipitously elution in the target capture assembly shears high molecular weight genomic DNA into fragments more suitable for PCR an added advantage in detecting low copy number targets. And because the process takes place entirely within the closed device there is essentially no risk of contamination following sample input.

By using the eluate itself as the rehydration medium for the dehydrated PCR mix in the amplification subcircuits target sequences are not further diluted.

Accordingly elution buffer by design serves as PCR buffer. Elution buffer is designed to be bifunctional and seamlessly integrates sample preparation and PCR amplification in a way not previously attempted at the microscale.

Turning now to the nucleic acid eluate is transported through microfluidic channels by ganged valves under pneumatic control into one or more channels or chambers for amplification. This part of the amplification subcircuit makes up the PCR fluidics and thermal interface and is designed to optimize heat exchange and mixing. In the amplification channels or chambers the eluate serves to rehydrate pre spotted dehydrated PCR mix. PCR mix includes an optimized concentration of a magnesium salt selected from magnesium acetate chloride sulfate or the like as is required for polymerase activity a buffer for optimal pH and surface active agents. The dehydrated reagents optionally include sodium chloride and sodium citrate matched to the melt curves of the primers to be used in the PCR reaction. Simultaneously reagents and control template in the control amplification channel which does not receive sample are rehydrated with elution buffer directly from the elution buffer chamber. This negative control chamber is used to check for nucleic acid contamination in the device.

In our experience mixing is not required to rehydrate the PCR reagents. Heating causes convective mixing in the amplification channel or chamber which vigorously dissolves and distributes the reagents and matrix. Passivation of the amplification subcircuits is accomplished by pretreatment and by incorporation of suitable passivating substances in the dried PCR mix.

The embodiment of contains two chambers within each arm of the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly. These are associated with separate temperature requirements for thermocycling in the PCR protocol. In subsequent examples other configurations will be illustrated.

The assay device as depicted in calls for two TEC blocks in thermal contact with the amplification channel or chamber with fixed temperature control. One block is associated with a bellows pump which serves as a chamber for melting double stranded templates and dissociating primers and the other for annealing and polymerase extension. Control for the temperature blocks is generally handled off device and is integrated with control of the pneumatics. Other means for heating and cooling are well known in the art.

The temperature may be fixed or ramped depending on the design of the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly. Assay devices with fixed temperature stations are conceived. Thermocycling with two or three temperature stations each with a different fixed temperature accomplishes denaturation annealing and extension by either cycling the PCR reaction mix between temperature stations back and forth or by circular fluid flow. Single station thermocycling is also contemplated.

It should be noted that the optimal temperature for extension of primers with native TAQ polymerase is about 72 C. but it is known in the art that extension also occurs in PCR thermocycling if a separate 72 C. incubation is not used. The temperature of the annealing chamber can be set between 20 and 85 C. degrees more preferentially between 50 and 80 C. and most preferentially between 55 and 75 C. depending on salt concentration and primer sequence and the denaturation chamber is conventionally set at about 95 C. more preferentially at 96 to 100 C. to obtain complete melting and dissociation of the double stranded templates and primers. Complete cycle times of under a minute are readily obtained. Cycle times of less than 30 sec have been routinely demonstrated.

Valves under ganged pneumatic control are used to direct flow from the PCR fluidics to the detection subcircuits of . It can thus be seen that there are two primary classes of pneumatic control elements. These comprise diaphragm both of which are provided with pneumatic interconnects for connection to an external controllable pneumatic actuation manifold. Both classes pneumatic control elements are similar in construction comprising a liquid inlet a liquid outlet and an elastomeric diaphragm separating liquid from the pneumatic interconnect and differ in that the valves comprise a dam separating the liquid inlet from the liquid outlet and the bellows chambers are open so that the diaphragm when extended fills the chamber and expels the liquid and when retracted from the chamber by suction pressure in the pneumatic interconnect draws in the liquid. Thus both classes of elements serve to control the steps of the automated assay. The pneumatic control elements may be ganged for simplicity of control or may be operated independently by design of the valve logic and pneumatic interconnect circuitry. The pneumatic interconnect circuitry is thus oftimes complex requiring extensive design and experimentation.

Turning now to the schematic a detection subcircuit is shown. The amplification products are first mixed with magnetic capture beads in the mag mixing chamber. These beads are stored in the mag bead reservoir chambers until use. The beads are coated with avidin or other capture agent. Avidin for example will capture biotin conjugated primers and two tailed amplicons. Anti digoxigenin will capture digoxigenin conjugated primers and two tailed amplicons.

The magnetic capture beads are typically stored in a dried form and are reconstituted with rehydration and wash buffer from the rehydration and wash buffer pouch before mixing with the amplification products. Bead bound capture agent is in excess and both unextended and extended ligand labeled primers are bound by the beads. Rehydration and mixing is under the control of valves.

The size of magnetic beads preferred in the assay are about 0.01 to 50 microns more preferably 0.5 to 10 microns and most preferentially 0.8 to 2.8 microns mean diameter. Homogeneously sized beads are preferred. Suitable beads may be obtained from Dynal Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. Agencourt Bioscience Corp Beverly Mass. Bang s Laboratories Inc. Fishers Ind. Polysciences Inc Warrington Pa. Bioscience Beads West Warwick R.I. Bruker Daltonics Nashville Tenn. and AGOWA Berlin Del. for example.

Following mixing of the magnetic capture beads and the amplification products the reaction mixture is moved into a detection chamber as shown in . Flow control is provided hydraulically with bellows pumps or is driven by moving the beads which are paramagnetic in a magnetic field. The detection chamber contains test pads coated with antibody against peptide hapten tags on the amplicon as will be described with respect to . Further description of a selected embodiment of a detection chamber containing test pad strips is provided with . The detection chamber is typically provided with an optical window for visual or machine observation of detection events.

A separate detection channel or chamber for a negative control is optionally provided because the detection of any amplicons in the negative control reaction would invalidate the assay and indicate contamination of the device or reagents. A positive control may also be provided.

In the detection channel or chamber the magnetic capture beads and captive amplicons after optional rinse to waste are contacted with an array strip or matrix of test pads having defined geometry. The test pads were treated to immobilize capture antibody or antibodies prior to assembly of the device for example on polystyrene by low pressure gas plasma treatment of plastic areas delimited by a mask followed by application of the antibody and drying.

In a preferred embodiment the beads are directed to the test pad surface by the magnetic field and provide a close encounter with the antibody or capture agent. This promotes binding interaction between the hapten and the antibody so that binding occurs very rapidly without the need for extended incubation. Once bound the magnetic field is turned off and the test pads are readily washed to remove residual unbound particles.

In practice the time from amplification to data presentation is less than 4 minutes. Magnetic fields include conveniently permanent magnets and electromagnets.

In another preferred embodiment magnetic bead capture for detecting nucleic acid amplicons permits the design of a detection station with multiple test pads. The capture chamber or channel may contain a panel of test pads see each addressable in a multiplex detection format by a different hapten anti peptidyl hapten antibody pair or by other ligand capture agent pairs. Multiplexed display of detection results provides an improved level of convenience for the user.

Also shown in is the capacity to expand the number of amplification channels each with one or more separated primer pairs in the PCR mix and then recombine the products for true multiplex detection at the detection station. In some embodiments 64 or more amplification channels are provided. More preferred are 16 or fewer channels selected to perform the required differential diagnosis and present the detection event in a visually accessible form. Valves and pumps are ganged on the pneumatic manifold to simplify the command logic. In another embodiment multiple samples can be analyzed on a single card.

a. A sample entry port a nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber a lysis buffer chamber a wash reagent chamber an elution buffer chamber a rehydration buffer chamber a vented waste chamber a PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly a mag mixer chamber a mag bead reservoir and a detection chamber and further comprising 

b. A first microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the sample port and the lysis chamber 

c. A second microchannel fluidly interconnecting the lysis chamber with the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber 

d. A third microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the lysis chamber with the lysis buffer pouch chamber 

e. A fourth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber and the wash buffer chamber 

f. A fifth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber and the elution buffer chamber 

g. A sixth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber and at least one PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly multiple parallel assemblies are shown in 

h. A seventh microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting at least one PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly and at least one mag mixer chamber 

i. An eighth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting at least one mag mixer chamber and the rehydration buffer chamber the sixth microchannel further comprising a mag bead reservoir interposed between the rehydration buffer chamber and the mag mixer chamber 

j. A ninth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the mag mixer chamber and at least one detection chamber 

k. A tenth microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber and the vented waste chamber 

l. An eleventh microchannel fluidically and valvedly interconnecting the detection chamber and the vented waste chamber and 

further comprising a plurality of internal pneumatic control elements comprising diaphragm operated valves and bellows chambers wherein said plurality of internal pneumatic control elements are provided with pneumatic interconnect circuitry for connection to an external controllable pneumatic actuation manifold.

Minor equivalent variants for example interconnection of the fourth and fifth microchannels i.e. whereby the lysis buffer and elution buffer share a common pathway to the nucleic acid target capture assembly chamber would not have a functional effect on device performance. Similarly the tenth and eleventh microchannels may share a common portal to the waste chamber. Major variants in the layout of the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly are possible and will be discussed below. These include single or multiple interfaces with interfacing reaction chambers on the cartridge. Obviously other microchannels and functionalities may be added for example a chamber between the nucleic acid capture assembly and the amplification assembly for use in forming cDNA from mRNA. Other obvious variants include reconfiguring the cartridge for isothermal amplification protocol by eliminating the multi temperature interface of the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly.

Wherein the means for extracting nucleic acids from a biosample comprises a fluidic subcircuit for extracting nucleic acids from a biosample with solid phase the means for synthesizing amplicons comprises a fluidic subcircuit for synthesizing amplicons without mixing element and the means for detecting amplicons comprises a fluidic subcircuit with detection chamber and optical window in a single integrated disposable member and the fluidics of the single integrated member are controllable by a plurality of pneumatic control elements comprising diaphragm operated valves and bellows chambers wherein the plurality of pneumatic control elements are provided with pneumatic interconnect circuitry for connection to an external controllable pneumatic actuation manifold.

In automated or semi automated configuration the microfluidic cartridge is inserted into an apparatus not shown . The apparatus comprises an off cartridge pneumatic actuation manifold with pneumatic interconnect ports and circuitry for connection to and control of the plurality of valved elements and bellows diaphragms of the microfluidic cartridge. The apparatus is run by a microprocessor with valve logic programming configured to control the pneumatic actuation of the valve and diaphragm elements. The apparatus optionally further has an off device magnetic field for manipulation of a magnetic microbead reagent and the magnet is optionally mounted in a movable carriage.

A positive target signal molecular detection complex is illustrated in . The molecular detection complex of depicts a paramagnetic bead immobilized on test pad . The tether between bead and capture antibody is formed by a two tailed amplicon in this case with first primer tagged with peptidyl hapten and second primer tagged with biotin for illustration. The paramagnetic beads are coated with bound avidin .

As shown the immobilized antibody or antibodies on test pad will capture two tailed amplicons. The biotin ligand is captured by an avidin coated bead and the magnetic bead or other reporter group in turn is immobilized on the test pad. A sufficient number of immobilized beads as present in a few microliters of reagent result in a visual coloration of the test pad. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art magnetic beads can be prepared with labeling aids such as QDots dyes RFIDs etc so as to be detectable when immobilized on the respective test pads.

Thus a positive detection event results when an amplicon labeled with a biotin tailed primer on a first end and a peptidyl hapten tailed primer on a second end becomes tethered to a test pad. After release of the magnetic field those test pads to which magnetic beads are tethered indicate a positive result for that species of peptidyl hapten tailed amplicon. Those test pads to which no magnetic beads are tethered indicate a negative result for the respective peptidyl hapten tagged amplicon. Because the species of peptidyl hapten is known because the antibody is highly specific and the test pad is assigned to detection of a particular primer sequence the detection event can be interpreted as positive detection of the particular nucleic acid sequence corresponding to the test pad and by inference is diagnostic of a pathogen or pathogenic condition.

Positive detection events using magnetic beads are easily detected visually as shown in a significant advantage for any point of care assay device or kit of the present embodiment.

In a negative control typically no two tailed amplicons will exist absent contamination so the test pads corresponding to all analytes will remain colorless. As a positive control a known template may be incorporated in the amplification chamber as a positive control. Because of the discrimination provided by the anti peptidyl hapten antibodies the positive control may be an internal control.

The detection station shown in consists of seven vertical multiplex detection channels mounted in parallel in an optical window. Each channel contains 7 test pad strips and each test pad is about 2 0.5 mm. A perspective view of a detection channel is shown in . Evident in the photograph is the visual clarity provided by populations of magnetic beads bound to a test pad in the form of the molecular structure described in .

In addition the engineering of integrated automatic microfluidic devices of the invention has required the development and improvement of individual microfluidic elements or members. These include microfluidic channels chambers valves valve trees filters capture filters isolation filters pneumatic manifolds blister packs reagent pouches waste sequestration chambers sanitary vents bellows chambers bellows pumps thermal heat exchange interfaces in line mixers on card wiring optical windows test pads and microchannel depositions of dehydrated reagents. And also programmable interface elements include pneumatic control manifolds optical scanners and movable undercarriages for magnetic beads.

Microfluidic channels preferentially have a rectangular cross section. Wall roughness is dependent on method of fabrication. A preferred method of fabrication involves lamination of thin sheets stencil cut with a laser or other cutting device to build up layers containing fluid and pneumatic circuitry. Microchannels constructed of layers formed by injection molding may have more rounded channel profiles and a radius on each via . The internal channels of injection molded parts are also somewhat smoother.

In the microfluidic flow regime a virtual wall of bound solvent builds up on the solid substrate but the thickness of the virtual wall can be reduced in part by passivating fluid contacting surfaces.

Program instructions for applying pressure and vacuum to the valves and pumps requires design of the valve logic to operate the device so that each device is in fact a mechanical invention on its own four legs. An off device microprocessor is programmed with an instruction set to control the pneumatic operation of the devices. The microprocessor associated solenoids and positive and negative pneumatic pressure sources are located off device on an associated analytical instrument into which the microfluidic devices are inserted.

Throughout the design of these devices double layers of protection are provided so that contaminated waste does not leave the device. As illustrated in fluid waste entering the waste sequestration receptacle first encounters a fibrous bibulous pad. As the pad swells it displaces the elastomeric diaphragm or deformable film that isolates it from the outside vent. In the event of failure of the deformable film a hydrophobic filter mounted in the vent via stops fluid leaks.

Pads are made of materials similar to those found in absorbent articles such as disposable diapers. The absorbent core typically includes a fibrous web which can be a nonwoven airlaid web of natural or synthetic fibers or combinations thereof. Fibrous webs used in such absorbent articles also often include certain absorbent gelling materials usually referred to as hydrogels superabsorbent or hydrocolloid materials to store large quantities of the discharged body fluids. These materials absorb through capillary or osmotic forces or a combination of both see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 610 678 and 5 906 602 herein incorporated by reference . The bibulous diaper or pad of fiber material is optionally treated with a dessicant. Fiber pads are typically cellulosic. Dessicants include calcium sulfate gypsum calcium chloride and silica gel.

All air displaced as the liquid reagents are introduced into the microfluidic assay channel exits the device through a sanitary vent with filter which is hydrophobic and permeable to gas but not liquid thus protecting the operator to exposure to biohazards.

Guanidinium salts alcohol and detergents function in the waste chamber as disinfectants. A disinfectant may be used in combination with the above. When designed appropriately the device can be discarded after use without special precautions.

The architecture of the microfluidic device of has been engineered so that once a sample is placed in the device exposure of the operator to its contents is avoided. The design ensures a single entry disposable device for medical or environmental testing. Optional sealing and locking mechanisms covering the sample port are flushed with lysis buffer following sample insertion and closure for safety in handling.

These bellows chambers can be used we have found as reaction chambers as in PCR. Thermocycling can be achieved by pairs of bellows chambers fluidly interconnected and separately temperature controlled so that fluid passes back and forth from chamber to chamber as the diaphragms are alternated in pressurized and vacuum configurations. This reciprocal flow also can be used as a mixing device as it has been in ELISA reactions on microfluidic devices.

By forming the base of the bellows chamber out of thin laminated films with high thermal conductivity coefficients we have found that they make excellent heat exchangers and permit rapid thermocycling in a compact package. In a preferred embodiment the underside of the device is separated from the heat source by a plastic film having a thermal conductivity of greater than about 1 W m K.

The operation of two bellows chambers as a reaction vessel for PCR is explained with reference to the sectional views of . The process has four steps illustrated as Figs. A B C and D and three microfluidic elements numbered and . Microfluidic element is a valve. Elements and are bellows chambers. Bellows chamber is dead ended. All elements are fluidly interconnected.

In step A valve and bellows are under negative pressure so that the valve opens and fluid is drawn into the first bellows chamber. Note the elastomeric diaphragm separating the fluid and the pneumatic manifold. This corresponds to the first step in PCR where the sample is mixed with primer pairs and denatured. In step B the valve closes sealing the system. Bellows chamber empties under positive pressure and bellows chamber fills under negative pressure. This corresponds to annealing and extension. In step C the first round products are returned to bellows chamber where strand separation again occurs. Steps B and C are repeated for the required number of cycles. Then the fluid is expelled from the chambers by opening valve and pressurizing bellows chambers and . Heating results in convective mixing.

The process has five steps illustrated as B C D and E and four microfluidic elements numbered and . Microfluidic elements and are valves. Elements and are bellows chambers. Bellows chamber has a fixed temperature corresponding to the nucleic acid melt temperature bellows chamber has a fixed temperature corresponding to the temperature required in PCR for annealing and extension. All members are fluidly interconnected by microchannels. Total volume of the PCR fluidics is about 50 uL.

In step A valve and bellows are under negative pressure so that the valve opens and fluid is drawn into the first bellows chamber. Note the elastomeric diaphragms separating the fluid and the pneumatic manifold. This corresponds to the first step in PCR where the sample is mixed with primer pairs and denatured. In step B the valve closes sealing the system. Bellows chamber empties under positive pressure and bellows chamber fills under negative pressure. This corresponds to annealing and extension. In step C the first round products are returned to bellows chamber where strand separation again occurs. Steps B and C are repeated for the required number of cycles. In step D the fluid is transported to bellows chamber . Then the fluid is expelled from the PCR fluidics by opening valve and pressurizing bellows chambers and . Upon exiting valve the reaction mixture can be mixed with magnetic beads as described in .

The embodiment of lends itself to the Hot Start protocol for PCR amplification. Target DNA enters the amplification subcircuit from the extraction subcircuit. In the PCR fluidics of the sample first encounters dried primer mix with a magnesium salt and sufficient nucleobase triphosphates for the amplification. These reagents may optionally be dried in place by manual spotting or automated printing device and may include a matrix such as bovine serum albumin trehalose or PEG 3000 for example to improve wetting passivation and rehydration.

The target mix with primers is immediately directed into the denaturation chamber under the control of valve logic. Here target DNA dissociates to free single stranded template so that when the reaction mixture is transported to the annealing temperature primer target hybrids are formed with the proper complementarity. The mixture then enters the primer extension chamber where polymerase has been deposited in dehydrated form. As the polymerase is rehydrated primer extension begins. This is the hot start method which has previously been suggested by others to improve product yield and specificity D Aquila et al 1991. Nucleic Acids Res 19 37 49 Chou et al 1992. Nucleic Acids Res 20 1717 1723 Kellogg et al 1994. Biotechniques 16 1134 1137 .

Other PCR fluidics configurations include a circular microchannel spanning two temperature blocks so that fluid is thermocycled as it flows along a circular path. Isothermal designs are also contemplated for isothermal amplification protocols.

In we show test pad geometries. Test pads are a feature of the detection step of the method described herein. Test pads and constitute for example a negative and positive detection field for an assay. Test pad array is a linear banded or striped array not unlike that shown in . Test pad array is a rectangular array of individual test squares each treated with a unique capture agent. Test pad is circular and is adapted to inkjet printing. Test pad is treated with a gradient of a capture agent so as to display a readily interpretable semi quantitative endpoint.

Test pads have in common a field bounded by an edge inside of which a bioactive capture agent is immobilized. While not a comprehensive list the capture agent may be a protein such as an antibody an anti antibody an anti peptidyl hapten antibody Protein A Protein G or antigen or a non protein such as an aptimer a carbohydrate antigen a mucopolysaccharide or an oligomer. Capture agents may also include denatured viral antigens and microbial antigens in general and cellular components or whole cells in general.

Note that test pads are not necessarily impermeable substrates and may be porous or fibrous in character. The analyte fluid path in the magnetic field may be across or through the test pad area as in from side to side or from front to back. The test pad architecture at a molecular level is essentially three dimensional although it may be represented as a two dimensional plane.

Solid substrates for test pads include olefin or other thermoplastic materials such as polystyrene polycarbonate polypropylene polyethylene terephthalate polyether sulfone polyvinyl chloride polyvinyl acetate copolymers of vinyl acetate and vinyl chloride and polyamides and also inorganic materials such as glass. Certain fibrous or porous supports such as nitrocellulose nylon hydrogel and polyethylene may also be applied as test pads and may be pretreated with capture agent for ease of assembly. To enhance binding of capture agents crosslinked proteins are sometimes employed. Drying also promotes irreversible binding of the capture agent. Other capture agents may require modified protocols as are known in the art.

A preferred method for pretreating plastic prior to adsorbing the capture agent is low pressure gas plasma treatment. Exposure of the surface to pure oxygen or nitrogen produces an activated hydroxylated and carboxylated substrate layer or an activated aminated and nitroxidated layer respectively. Argon may also be used. In one embodiment polystyrene plastic is used as the substrate for immobilizing capture agent. Masking followed by gas plasma treatment is used to activate designated areas as test pads. The capture agent is applied dried in place and the mask is removed. When antibody is used as the capture agent application by hand or with an automated printer is followed by drying and blocking. Other capture agents require modified protocols as are known in the art.

Techniques for surface activation are reviewed in Chan et al 1996 Surface Science Reports 24 1 54 and in Garbassi et al. 1998 Polymer Surfaces From Physics to Technology John Wiley pp 238 241 and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 955 738 which describes hydrophilization and functionalization of polymer surfaces and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The use of multiple capture pads in the detection chamber permits multiplexing of results i.e. multiplex detection in a multiplex detection chamber. In a preferred embodiment visual presentation offers convenience to the user but instruments for detection of positive results on arrays smaller than can be visually discriminated are also contemplated. Instrumental detection of non visual detection events are also within the scope of this invention.

It is understood that microfluidic devices optionally may include RFID microchips or bar code labels as an aid in processing analytical data.

Only one of the primers used in the first round amplification is tagged but the third nested primer used in second round PCR carries the second tag. Other variants are possible.

Turning now to we see the sample path branches at a Tee after elution from the Target Capture Assembly. A cDNA Synthesis Fluidic Assembly is interposed on one arm of the branch. In this option the two parallel paths serve different analytical functions. One path is used to analyze the DNA content of the sample which may treated with RNAase. The other branch is directed to a microfluidic element for synthesis of cDNA from RNA by any of several prior art methods well known to those skilled in the art but usually involving one of the reverse transcriptases. It is the cDNA that is then analyzed by PCR.

In a molecular detection complex comprising a phycoerythrin avidin reporter complex is shown tethered to a solid substrate by an antibody and two tailed amplicon . First primer is conjugated with a peptidyl hapten complementary to the immobilized antibody . Second primer is conjugated with biotin and the biotin is used to capture the reporter complex before immunocapture on the solid substrate thus avoiding the hook effect .

It should be seen from this figure that variants of the unique molecular detection complex are readily constructed. The phycoerythrin avidin reporter complex was chosen here because it is readily available and has strong fluorescent signal. But numerous other reporter groups or particles may be substituted.

The common elements are the two tailed amplicon with peptidyl hapten on the first primer the complementary anti peptidyl hapten antibody immobilized on a detection surface such as a test pad and a reporter group of some kind bound to a complementary ligand on the second primer.

Use of anti epitope haptens for immunocapture takes advantage of the high degree of specificity of antibody binding and the near infinite variability of the peptide peptidyl hapten tags that can be conjugated to the first primer. This permits construction of amplicon libraries by amplification with conjugated primer pairs and subsequent interrogation of those libraries in the bioassay.

Reporter groups include fluorophores biotin digoxins peptides quenchers proteins beads particles microspheres magnetic microbeads proteins and so forth.

Optionally once the locking cover is in place the underside of the cover can be flooded with disinfectant so that the device is fully disposable without special precautions. We envisage devices of this kind for analysis of nasal and rectal swabs and for other biological specimens.

A single block TEC with ramp temperature control was used in early development of the assay. In this embodiment Peltier chips are used to control heat transfer to and from a suitably sized heat sink under control of a PID controller. Rapid response of the amplification channel or chamber was engineered by reducing the thermal mass and thermal diffusion barrier of the microfluidic device and associated heating block. Subsequently dual fixed temperature blocks were used in PCR protocols. Because of the relatively small volumes required for amplification mixing in the amplification chambers is achieved by thermal convection of the fluid. No mechanical mixing element is required.

Extraction of nucleic acids from the sample is critical in developing clinical assays. Difficult specimens include stool and sputum. Blood because hemoglobin interferes with the activity of polymerases used in amplification may also be problematic.

However we have been successful with a very rapid means to a prefilter clinical samples to remove gross particulate b lyse the target pathogens in a chaotrope such as guanidinium thiocyanate c trap the nucleic acids and then d after serial washing on a nucleic acid trapping member e elute directly into the PCR fluidics assembly for amplification. Surprisingly good results are obtained by this rapid method which avoids chloroform phenol extraction treatment with proteinase K centrifugation and other more complex and time consuming prior art means described in the literature.

From the amplification subcircuit the amplification mixture is transported directly into the detection subcircuit where results are visualized in 2 to 6 minutes most preferentially in about 4 minutes. In accomplishing this by combining fluidic subcircuits for extraction amplification and detection in a microfluidic device we have developed a seamless interface between sample preparation amplification and diagnostic result. Total assay time sample volume reagent volumes labor and expense are significantly reduced.

Lysis of microorganisms and virus particles in a sample may require partial solubilization of nucleocapsid lipids and mucopolysaccharides in the sample. Optional pre treatments include use of mercaptoethanol or n acetyl cysteine to break disulfide bonds use of universal solvents such as n n dimethylformamide and n methylpyrrolidinone to disrupt nucleic acid protein and nucleic acid lipid associations as well as freeze thaw or mechanical pre treatments such as with a dounce homogenizer sonication or french press for tissue samples. A mini bead impact mill or sonicator also can be used for samples containing gram positive cocci rods or endospores.

Lysis yields mixed nucleic acids generally consisting of significant amounts of ribosomal and messenger RNA. Many viruses of interest may be RNA viruses but for large numbers of bacteria the targets of interest are plasmid or genomic DNA. Therefore treatment of the lysate with an RNAase thus removing rRNA and mRNA that compete for binding and elution can aid in maximizing the amount of DNA bound on the nucleic acid target capture assembly.

It is also possible to amplify intron sequences rather than the customary open reading frames exons and by doing so avoid competition of mRNA for primer binding.

As describe earlier hot start PCR has been suggested to improve sensitivity and amplification yield reducing primer dimers and nonspecific amplification. This is especially important in first round extensions which can set the stage to dominate subsequent amplification.

Also suggested for multiplex amplification protocols has been a two stage amplification in which first round amplification with a mixed primer pool to amplicon copy numbers of about a thousand or less is followed by amplification of aliquots of the reaction mixture in separate chambers with individual primer pairs. Detection can be multiplexed by the method of the present invention.

Another amplification means is to perform asymmetric amplification in which a peptidyl haptenized primer is used to make a high copy number of the complementary strand and then the reverse haptenized primer is added and amplification is repeated to complete the synthesis of both of the duplex target sequences. The net result is the same duplex amplicons are labeled at one end with one hapten and at the other end with biotin or the like. Since the primers do not see each other at high concentration minimal primer dimer is formed. In a variant of asymmetric amplification a third primer can be used which is selected from a sequence upstream from the second primer and it is the third primer not the second primer that is peptide haptenized. This hemi nested variant of PCR aids in reducing doubly tagged primer dimer formation.

Preferred primers are 10 to 30 bases in length more preferred primers are 17 28 bases in length. Shorter primers may result in nonspecific amplification. Sequence distance between forward and reverse primers should be on the order of 70 to 600 bp more preferably 100 to 300 bp. Base composition of the primers should be 40 to 60 G C more preferentially 50 to 60 G C with no clustering of the purines particularly at the 3 end.

Devices apparatus and methods for both simplex and multiplex amplification of nucleic acid targets are contemplated here. Simplex amplification which is easily accomplished in parallel PCR fluidics and thermal interface assemblies under ganged valve control is a preferred embodiment.

Both simplex and multiplex detection devices are contemplated here. Multiplex detection is a preferred embodiment. Visual means of multiplex detection are preferable among the means disclosed here although machine means manual means and automated detection means are also contemplated.

Diagnostic detection of various pathogenic agents is contemplated. Blood borne pathogens include Hantavirus Dengue fever virus Yellow fever virus and other viruses of the Flavivirus group West nile virus Japanese B encephalitis virus St Louis encephalitis Western equine encephalitis Human immunodeficiency virus 1 and 2 Human T cell leukemia virus 1 and 2in dogs falciparum malaria ovale and berghei to name a few. Quantitative detection of the cause of blackwater fever may be important in blood.

Central nervous system and CSF pathogens include monocytogenes syphilis serotype B spp spp viral encephalitis such as Japanese B encephalitis Mumps virus Polio virus herpes viruses HSV 1 HSV 2 varicella zoster virus and Rabies virus.

Representative urinary pathogens are dominated by gram negative rods and include and occasional infections for example.

A panel for sexually transmitted diseases is contemplated. Pathogens of clinical interest include Herpes simplex and the like.

Enteric pathogens include Enterobacteriaceae of the genera and certain serovars of among others. Also pathogenic are a broad swath of parasites and viruses.

Selected pathogens may be detected individually or in panels by the devices of the invention. Kits for detection of selected pathogens or pathogenic conditions are anticipated.

Detection of gram positive cocci gram positive rods yeasts and endospores may require sample pretreatment in a mini bead impact mill ultrasound or by peptidoglycanase or chitinase prior to analysis. Diagnosis of subacute bacterial endocarditis is contemplated.

In other embodiments detection of cancer cells in blood or tissues is contemplated. Protocols for adapting mammalian cell lysis to a microfluidic card of the present invention are anticipated. Primer pairs may be selected from oncogene sequences. Diagnosis for pathogenic conditions of the cardiac immune and vascular systems are also contemplated.

The cartridges are particularly adapted to assay panels run in parallel. In a preferred embodiment an on board multiplex detection chamber permits simultaneous presentation of multiple results.

Use of peptidyl primer tagged amplicons in assays of this kind is another aspect of the invention. A number of methods are now available for manufacture of specific peptide epitopes attached to oligonucleotide probes or primers see C. H. Tung and S. Stein Bioconjugate Chem. 2000 11 605 618 E. Vives and B. Lebleu Tetrahedron Lett. 1997 38 1183 1186 R. Eritja A. Pons M. Escarcellar E. Giralt and F. Albericio Tetrahedron Lett. 1991 47 4113 4120 J. P. Bongartz A. M. Aubertin P. G. Milhaud and B. Lebleu Nucleic. Acids Res. 1994 22 4681 4688 C. H. Tung M. J. Rudolph and S. Stein Bioconjugate Chem. 1991 2 461 465 J. G. Harrison and S. Balasubramanian Nucleic. Acids Res. 1998 26 3136 3145 S. Soukchareun J. Haralambidis and G. Tregear Bioconjugate Chem. 1998 9 466 475 K. Arar A. M. Aubertin A. C. Roche M. Monsigny and M. Mayer Bioconjugate Chem. 1995 6 573 577 and for an example of the use of the native ligation technique see D. A. Stetsenko and M. J. Gait J. Organic Chem. 2000 65 4900 4908 . See also U.S. 20006 0263816 incorporated herein in full by reference.

The peptidyl hapten primers of this method are synthesized by these chemistries. We disclose here that these primers are compatible with PCR methods and with molecular biological nucleic acid amplifications in general. For use in assays the amplification product with amplicon incorporating peptide tagged primer is first captured by an affinity capture agent specific for a ligand on the second primer of the amplification primer set and thereby bound to a magnetic microbead. The amplicon bead complex is then interacted with peptide specific antibodies on the testpad and only those bead complexes with the peptidyl hapten amplicon molecular complex are captured by the testpad see for illustrations . This method permits screening of peptidyl amplicon libraries by heterogeneous binding assays using magnetic bead technology. Because of the enormous immunological variability possible with peptide tagged oligomers we believe that methods for interrogating libraries of this type provide a previously unrecognized tool of use in molecular biological assays with or without magnetic beads.

These compositions may be generally described as a molecular detection complex for detection of a pathogen or pathogenic condition comprising a two tailed amplicon with first end and second end said first end comprising a first primer covalently conjugated with a peptidyl hapten and said second end comprising a second primer covalently conjugated with a ligand said first end further comprising a ligand bound ligand binding agent coated reporter group and said second end further comprising a peptidyl hapten bound anti peptidyl hapten antibody said complex further being immobilized on a test pad where test pad and ligand are defined broadly.

It should be noted that fluorophore dyed latex beads may be used as test pad in a sort of liquid array. By barcoding the fluorophore beads and coating uniformly labeled bead populations with peptidyl hapten specific antibodies bead libraries can be synthesized for analysis of mixed populations of two tailed amplicons or of two tailed amplicon libraries and the resulting affinity binding complexes with pairs of beads tethered by the two tailed amplicons can then be sorted or assayed quantitatively using dual excitation fluorometry.

The devices and apparatuses described herein are generally amenable to the performance of bioassays for nucleic acid targets and may be combined as kits for the performance of the bioassays by the methods disclosed herein.

1 selecting a first primer having a hybridization specificity for the 5 end of a first target nucleic acid sequence and synthesizing a peptidyl hapten conjugated first primer 

2 selecting a second primer having a hybridization specificity for the 3 end of the first target nucleic acid sequence and synthesizing a ligand conjugated second primer said first and second primers forming a primer pair 

3 repeating steps a and b for each of a plurality of target nucleic acid sequences and pooling the primer pairs 

5 contacting the amplification mixture products with ligand binding agent coated magnetic beads to capture any resulting two tailed amplicons comprising said ligand conjugated first primers 

6 contacting the amplification mixture products with a plurality of test pads wherein each test pad comprises an immobilized anti peptidyl hapten antibody and capturing the two tailed amplicons on the test pad in the form of a molecular detection complex 

7 scoring the assay as positive for a plurality of pathogens or pathogenic conditions by detecting one or more molecular detection complexes.

Methods for nucleic acid detection as described herein may involve amplification by various means. These include simplex amplification multiplex amplification nested amplification serial amplification and hot start amplification.

Reverse primers were first prepared and HPLC purified. Peptides were modified with n terminal hydrazine before use. Oligonucleotides were treated with succinimidyl 4 formylbenzoate in formamide and then reacted with the hydrazine derivatized peptides to form hapten tagged primers.

These peptide epitopes were selected based on the availability of complementary antibodies. Alternate peptide conjugation chemistries may also be used. Forward primers were all conjugated with biotin.

Monodisperse streptavidin coated magnetic beads MyOne Streptavidin C1 Dynabeads were purchased from Dynal Carlsbad Calif. and washed and resuspended in 0.9 PBS 30 mg mL BSA and 1 TritonX100 with 5 v v of a solution of 80 mM MgCl 0.24 TritonX100 1 BSA in 0.5M TRIS pH 8 before use.

A microfluidic device was built from stencil cut laminates and contained multiple detection chambers of the form illustrated in . Each detection chamber was formed with an inlet port and outlet port fluidically connected to the detection chamber by microfluidic channels. Sufficient detection chambers were built for the experiment.

Before final assembly test pads in the detection chamber were masked and plasma treated with oxygen gas. Peptidyl hapten specific antibodies Research Diagnostics Flanders N.J. and negative control solution were spotted on the test pads 1 uL per pad and dried in place under vacuum. Each detection chamber contained one test pad corresponding to each primer set and a negative control. The fully assembled device was treated with blocking wash solution consisting of 0.9 PBS 30 mg mL BSA and 1 TritonX100 to passivate untreated plastic surfaces. The blocking solution was removed before use and the chambers were dried.

Using known DNA samples from enteric pathogens PCR was performed with the prepared primer sets above for 35 cycles. Platinum Quantitative RT PCR Thermoscript One Step System reagents were used for the amplification. Successful amplification was confirmed by 5 agarose gel electrophoresis. Amplicon 10 uL was then resuspended with 5 uL of beads above in about 20 uL of buffer containing 10 mM MgCl 0.5 BSA 0.1 TritonX100 and 5 mM TRIS Buffer pH 8 and the bulk of this solution was loaded into a detection chamber. Each amplicon product corresponded to a single primer set and was loaded into a separate detection chamber.

The beads were first captured with a magnet positioned on the bottom of the detection chamber and the excess solution was removed. The magnet was then used to smear the bead paste onto through and across the test pads and the mixture was then allowed to incubate 1 min. With the magnet positioned on the bottom of the well the well was gradually filled with blocking solution. The magnet was moved along the flow of the buffer creating a bead front on the bottom layer of the detection chamber. The magnet was then shifted to the top of the detection chamber lifting unbound beads out of the test pad areas. The unbound material could be resuspended in flowing buffer and rinsed to waste. The test pads were then rinsed with 1 volume of fresh buffer. Bright orange test pad stripes were immediately visible and were determined to correctly reflect specificity of binding of the hapten tagged amplicon to the test pad containing the complementary antibody. Because the detection chambers were aligned in parallel when constructed a stairstep pattern was evident after all the amplicon bead mixtures were processed because each tagged amplicon was bound by only one test pad in each detection chamber.

Upon clearing positive tests were immediately visible as bright orange bands corresponding to the location of particular test strips. Negative test strips and negative controls remained translucent and uncolored. The results could be easily decoded by matching the location of the stained test pad with a key of the antibodies used in spotting.

A microfluidic device was built from stencil cut laminates. Before final assembly biotin and hapten tagged primer pairs dATP dCTP dGTP and dTTP TAQ polymerase and a matrix consisting of Triton X100 BSA PEG and Trehalose plus magnesium chloride were deposited in the amplification channel or chamber and dried in place under vacuum. Streptavidin coated magnetic beads Dynal MyOne Streptavidin C1 Carlsbad Calif. were spotted and dried in a chamber adjoining the amplification channels or chambers. Test pad areas in the detection chamber were stenciled see for general approach and gas plasma treated before antibody solutions were applied and dried in place. Antibody spots were blocked with StabilCoat SurModics Eden Prairie Minn. . The device was then treated with a Triton X100 BSA buffer to passivate untreated plastic surfaces.

Lysis Buffer Wash Reagent Elution Buffer and Rehydration Buffer were aliquoted into sealed blister packs in designated chambers of the device. The device was then fully assembled and placed in a pneumatic controller with variable temperature TEC heating blocks positioned under the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly.

Clinical swab samples from diarrhoeal patients known to contain pathogenic microorganisms were handled with gloves in a biosafety cabinet. Each rectal swab was mixed vigorously with 400 uL of TE to solubilize the contents. Using filter plugged pipet tips about 400 uL of homogenate was then transferred to the sample port of the microfluidic device and the sample port was closed. All other steps were performed in the single entry device with no other operator exposure.

An on board sanitary bellows pump was used to pull sample through a pre filter consisting of a depth filter element made of polypropylene for example supported on a laser cut plastic ribs. A valve was then used to close the sample port. The crude filtrate was then mixed with lysis buffer and drawn through a glass fiber filter to trap nucleic acids and the filter retentate was rinsed thoroughly with ethanol. All rinses were sequestered in an onboard waste receptacle which vents through a 0.45 micron hydrophobic membrane filter. The nucleic acids on the glass fiber membrane were then eluted with elution buffer and ported into the reaction channel containing primers dNTPs polymerase magnesium buffer and surface active agents in dehydrated form. The reaction mixture in a volume of about 50 uL was then heated to 95 C. in the PCR fluidics and thermal interface assembly for about 10 sec to effect denaturation of double stranded sequences and secondary structure in the sample. Heating and cooling was supplied by external Peltier chips mounted on suitable heat sinks and PID controlled within a 1 C. range from setpoint. Immediately thereafter the temperature was returned to about 60 C. for a first round of annealing and extension which was continued for about 20 sec. Thermocycling was repeated for 40 cycles over an 18 min period.

Following extraction and amplification the amplicon products were moved to a mag mix chamber for mixing streptavidin labeled magnetic beads Dynal MyOne Streptavidin C1 which had been rehydrated in Rehydration Buffer. This mixture was incubated with gentle mixing and then transferred to a MagnaFlow chamber. Optionally the reaction mix can be rinsed to remove unreacted hapten conjugated primer while holding the magnetic beads in place. Using permanent magnets mounted on an X Y stage the coated beads with putative target amplicon were brought into contact with the capture antibody test pads or array in the detection chamber and unbound beads were moved away from the test pads with a moving magnetic field and sent to waste. Primers and non specific amplicons were rinsed from the chamber with an excess of rehydration buffer which again was discarded into on board waste.

Upon clearing positive tests were readily visible as orange bands corresponding to the location of particular test strips. Negative test strips remained translucent and uncolored. Time following transfer of amplification mixture to detection event was about 4 min. Knowing the identity of each immobilized antibody the results could be easily decoded. In best practice to this date the time from amplification to data presentation is less than 4 minutes.

In a test run with clinical samples pathogens in 46 out of 47 stools were scored correctly in screening with the Magnaflow device. One sample previously identified as containing Salmonella by culture was identified as also containing enterotoxigenic Ecoli O157H1 by Magnaflow i.e. a double infection . For this example the following primer pairs were obtained by custom synthesis and chemically conjugated by methods known in the art.

Forward primers for this example were conjugated with biotin. Reverse primers were conjugated with peptide haptens for which antibodies were available Research Diagnostics Flanders N.J. . Covalent attachment of the haptens was at the 5 terminus of the oligomer. Peptides were activated at the amino terminus for coupling.

A result of an assay in which the targets of Example 2 were extracted amplified and detected is shown in .

A respiratory panel containing biotinylated and hapten tagged primer pairs is designed. The primers are synthesized and then deposited in separate amplification channels or chambers of a device. Following the procedure of Example 2 throat swab washings are analyzed. A mini bead impact mill is used to prepare the sample prior to analysis. A result is displayed in the detection chamber. The product is packaged as a kit.

A sexually transmitted disease panel containing biotinylated and peptidyl hapten tagged primer pairs is designed and the primers are synthesized. The primers are then deposited in separate amplification channels or chambers of a device. Following the procedure of Example 2 vaginal swab washings are analyzed. A detection endpoint is displayed in the detection chamber. The product is packaged as a kit.

An oncogene panel containing biotinylated and peptidyl hapten tagged primer pairs is designed and the primers are synthesized. The primers are then deposited in a common amplification channel or chamber. Following PCR amplification the amplification products are detected in a detection station. The product is packaged as a kit.

While the above description contains specificities these specificities should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention but rather as exemplifications of embodiments of the invention. That is to say the foregoing description of the invention is exemplary for purposes of illustration and explanation. Without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention one skilled in the art can make various changes and modifications to the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions without inventive step. As such these changes and modifications are properly equitably and intended to be within the full range of equivalence of the following claims. Thus the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given.

