---

title: Picatinny rail attachment
abstract: An interface device is provided for securing a range finder to a Picatinny rail. The device has a longitudinal direction with first and second mounts, which are pivotably connected to open and closed configurations. The mounts are in substantially parallel and coaxial mutual positions along the longitudinal direction while in the closed configuration, and instead rotated along a first axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction in the open configuration. The device further includes a stock onto which the Picatinny rail attaches along the longitudinal direction, the stock being pivotably connecting to the first mount along a second axis substantially parallel to the first axis to one of a lock configuration to be substantially parallel to the first mount and a release configuration to pitch said stock relative to the first mount.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07797875&OS=07797875&RS=07797875
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07797875
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080429
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to clamping attachments in conjunction with Picatinny rails. In particular the clamping attachment provides an alignment interface between a range finder and a Picatinny rail mounted gunsight.

The United States Marine Corps USMC employs the Common Laser Range Finder CLRF for targeting objects to engage not untypically with hostile fire . The CLRF provides image intensification and thermal weapon sights for use with infantry weapons particularly for low light applications.

Conventional attachments for weapons yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular deficiencies in stability alignment and assembly have plagued previous designs. Various exemplary embodiments provide an interface device securing a range finder to a Picatinny rail the device having a longitudinal direction. The device includes first and second mounts which are pivotably connected to open and closed configurations. The mounts are in substantially parallel and coaxial mutual positions along the longitudinal direction while in the closed configuration and instead rotated along a first axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction in the open configuration. The device further includes a stock onto which the Picatinny rail attaches along the longitudinal direction the stock being pivotably connecting to the first mount along a second axis substantially parallel to the first axis to one of a lock configuration to be substantially parallel to the first mount and a release configuration to pitch said stock relative to the first mount.

In these embodiments the stock in the lock configuration applies tension to the first mount to maintain the mounts in said closed configuration and the stock in the release configuration relaxes the first mount to enable the mounts to rotate into the open configuration. The device further includes first and second members to engage the range finder. The first member is rigidly disposed on the first mount. The second member is rigidly disposed on said second mount. The first and second members mechanically engage the range finder therebetween by disposing the first member against one end of the range finder while the mounts are in the open configuration rotating the second mount to conform to the closed configuration thereby disposing the second member against opposite end of the range finder.

Various exemplary embodiments also provide a slide connector that translates in the longitudinal direction along the first mount with a pivot pin that rotates within the slide connector along a third axis substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction and the first axis along with a cross beam connected to the first mount by the pivot pin wherein the cross beam is disposed substantially parallel to the longitudinal direction in a stowage configuration and disposed substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal direction in a deployed configuration to engage the range finder. Alternate embodiments provide a hinge link having a mount pin that pivotably connects the first and second mounts and a stock pin that pivotably connects the first mount to the stock.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

A hinge link is disposed between the forward and aft mounts shown within a dash rectangular region that denotes boundaries for in detail . The link engages with forward and aft pins . The forward pin pivotably connects the stock to the forward mount forward pin . The aft pin pivotably connects the aft mount to enable rotational movement between the forward and aft mounts . The pins are substantially parallel to each other and substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. The stock locked parallel to the forward mount provides tension to the link to maintain the mounts in mutually parallel and coaxial positions labeled the closed position. A pair of flanges extends forward from the aft mount and flanking the pins .

As can be observed the Picatinny rail and stock in are shown in the lock configuration being substantially parallel to the forward mount thereby maintaining the mounts tight in the closed configuration. By contrast the Picatinny rail and stock in are shown in the release configuration after pressing the button hinged to pitch relative to the forward mount at forward pin . By releasing the latch the mounts can be swung into the open configuration. The relative positions between the components in the closed configuration for the mounts and the lock configuration for the stock and the forward mount are substantially parallel to each other and the longitudinal axis with their respective mutual pins being substantially perpendicular to that axis.

The cross beam rotates on a slide screw mounted within a slide which translates along a travel slot that extends longitudinally along the forward mount . Hinge extension screws provide attachment between the aft mount and the aft hook . In order to provide greater design versatility the aft mount and the aft hook can be produced as separate components or alternatively combined as an integral unit. shows the stock in detail . shows the forward mount and cross beam in detail with a dash oval identifying the latch slots .

The deploying view in shows the cross beam rotating counter clockwise from the inverted perspective shown as indicated by arrows . Upon completion of a right angle i.e. 90 or 4 radian rotation the cross beam extends outward from the attachment s longitudinal axis to be substantially perpendicular thereto. The deployed view in shows the cross beam after translating forward as indicated by arrow until one of the flanges abuts the forward mount . In the deployed configuration the cross beam is disposed substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and correspondingly the forward mount .

The vector rail attachment has a cross beam that performs as a stabilizer bar for the range finder . The cross beam can be keyed for one way rotation to ensure proper opening and closing procedures of attachment. To secure the rail attachment to the range finder an operator first rotates and slides the cross beam as shown in from stowage to deployment into its open locking position. Second the operator applies pressure to the release button and pitches open the stock as shown in to release the attachment s tension thereby enabling relative rotation between the mounts into the open configuration.

Third the operator positions the rail attachment over the range finder shown in . The operator rotates the aft mount and aft hook closed thereby applying pressure and fixating the rail attachment to the mounts being parallel in the closed configuration. The rail attachment is now stable and secure on the range finder readying the assembly for any variety of Image Intensifiers and Thermal Imagers that mate with the Picatinny rail . The operator reverses the operation steps for proper removal procedures of the rail attachment from the range finder .

Using the above described rail attachment a Marine operator can universally and conveniently attach present and future technology add on attributes onto the range finder . The vector rail attachment can be produced from a variety of lightweight materials having satisfactory nonmagnetic and durability characteristics.

The vector rail attachment represents an interface device onto the range finder e.g. USMC CLRF to provide an optically aligned Picatinny rail for securing military Image Intensifiers and Thermal Weapon Sights with standard Picatinny Rail Interfaces.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

