---

title: Wireless network selection management
abstract: Providing for network selection management for a mobile communication environment is provided herein. By way of example, the network selection can supersede default network selection configurations of a mobile terminal. Usage behaviors of mobile terminals can be monitored to gauge service demand for individual terminals. Based on the service demand, a particular network can be selected as a default for a terminal. The network selection can be utilized for load balancing terminals among suitable mobile networks, optimizing network resources, improving services for terminal devices, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385200&OS=08385200&RS=08385200
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08385200
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081105
---
Mobile communication technology has made a profound impact on inter personal communications. Whether for social or business purposes never before have people had such an expanded ability to interact with each other. While traditional fixed line networks have provided a backbone for remote communications the advent of mobility has enabled users to employ small portable devices to effect such communications while stationary or moving. Accordingly inter personal communication can be conducted not just indoors with a device coupled to a fixed power source and communication link but with a portable handheld device while outdoors driving in a car or even flying in an airplane.

Rapid growth of the telecommunications industry has fueled a strong competition for market share in mobile IP communication devices and communication service plans. Because of such competition mobile network providers have created packet based data networks that can provide IP access to the Internet and other IP based network resources and applications e.g. e mail web browsing and so on . Accordingly a mobile handset or the like can provide access to a rich assortment of shared computing applications and data resources available via such networks. Further the low cost worldwide personal voice communication traditionally available via mobile communication devices is also available on such mobile handset. In addition mobile communication networks can generally interconnect with local landline services providing the mobile handset with as much interconnectivity as traditional wire based telephony and computing devices but with far greater user mobility and flexibility.

As the mobile communication market increases the numbers of mobile subscribers increase and the voice and data demands of such subscribers evolve and become more complex the support networks provided by legacy voice and next generation data services must evolve as well. Higher speed data must be implemented as web shared applications become more popular. Such higher speed data requires additional processing power additional air bandwidth e.g. between base stations and mobile devices and additional bandwidth in network interfaces to popular data networks such as the Internet. Further in certain mobile communication architectures such as code division multiple access CDMA and subsequent iterations of CDMA technology providers look to share transmission resources among low demand but high quality voice traffic and high demand data traffic in order to share and maximize current bandwidth resources. Accordingly network architectures must adapt as numbers of subscribers and demands of such subscribers increase and evolve.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject disclosure provides for network selection management for a mobile communication environment. The network selection can in some circumstances supersede default network selection configurations of the device e.g. device manufacturer network selection specifications . Usage behaviors of mobile terminals can be monitored to gauge service demand for individual terminals. Based on the service demand a particular network can be selected as a default for a terminal. The network selection can be utilized for load balancing terminals among suitable mobile networks optimizing network resources improving services for terminal devices or the like.

To illustrate network selection terminals primarily or exclusively employing circuit switched voice communication can be directed to relatively low data rate circuit switched networks. On the other hand terminals primarily or exclusively employing data services can be directed to relatively high data rate circuit packet switched networks or high data all packet switched networks. Thus overall mobile efficiency can be improved by directing terminals to networks that provide services closely matched to terminal usage patterns.

Various business algorithms are provided herein to determine whether a terminal is suited for network selection. The algorithms can account for device related capabilities including handset hardware and software configurations as well as subscriber identity module SIM card capabilities. As an example a device s ability to connect to circuit switched and packet switched networks can be considered by such algorithms. Other considerations can include data services employed by the device network capabilities relative network load a user profile and user preferences a subscriber account or rate plan associated with a terminal customer service settings and so on. These as well as like factors can be utilized in determining whether the terminal is suited for network selection.

If a device is suited for network selection device usage behavior is monitored to determine a most appropriate network for the device optionally considering dynamic factors such as network loading. A selected network is established as a default network for the device. Accordingly such device will connect to the default network before connecting to other available networks.

In addition to the foregoing the subject disclosure can adapt to changes in usage patterns and update network selection based on such changes. Once a network is selected for a device a re evaluation period can be initiated where data service usage of the device is again monitored. If the usage rises above a minimum threshold e.g. a minimum data rate an average mean or median data rate or other suitable statistical determination or a new service plan or type of service is added to a rate plan during the re evaluation period network selection can be updated for the device. Otherwise the selected default network can be maintained for the device.

According to particular aspects of the subject disclosure user rate plans can be established or adjusted based on network selection management. For instance users that participate in network directed selection management can be provided a discount to a rate plan or users that do not participate in the management can have a premium added to a rate plan or both. In still other aspects a network that is lightly loaded can be established as a preferred network for network selection management. Users selected for the preferred lightly loaded network e.g. a conventional 2G network based on data usage can be provided an additional incentive such as a reduction in rate plan free or reduced rate services compatible with the preferred network and so on to increase utilization of the lightly loaded network and in some cases reduce loading of an over loaded network . Accordingly subscribers can be given incentives to adapt mobile usage patterns in a manner that optimizes network resource utilization.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the claimed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface engine or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components and can be as simple as a command line or a more complex Integrated Development Environment IDE .

As mobile devices become more advanced and have the ability to connect with various types of networks network selection becomes an important part of device functionality. Dual mode and multi mode phones are configured with logic to identify surrounding networks and select among the networks based on various conditions such as relative signal strength relative bandwidth or throughput and the like. Typically selection does not include network loading however as a mobile terminal is generally unable to observe nearby terminal traffic. Rather a multi mode device bases network selection on relative observations made at the device.

Whereas a mobile terminal typically does not observe nearby terminal traffic a network serving the terminals can observe such traffic. Accordingly the network can collect and maintain network load data and compare that data with network capacity. Furthermore the network can obtain device specific information from specific terminals or from profile information stored at a network database e.g. visitor location registry VLR home location registry HLR or other suitable network database . Accordingly the network can be a more appropriate arbiter of network selection as network conditions as well as terminal capabilities and subscriber preferences can be obtained stored by the network and employed in network selection.

Aspects of the subject disclosure provide control of network selection capabilities for mobile terminals in the presence of multiple wireless networks. Network selection can be based on terminal specific information as well as network specific information. For instance the terminal or a subscriber profile maintained by a network operator can be queried to identify networks the terminal is compatible with. Network information maintained at network servers and or databases can include networks within a particular region network load and the like. Such networks can include licensed spectrum networks including second generation 2G circuit switched networks e.g. Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Interim Standard 95 IS 95 and so on third generation 3G circuit packet switched networks e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband CDMA W CDMA and so forth combined circuit packet switched networks e.g. a 2G 3G network such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS or GPRS Enhanced Data rate for Global Evolution EDGE or fourth generation 4G networks e.g. Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and beyond. Furthermore network selection can also include non licensed wireless data networks such as WiFi networks e.g. 802.11a b g n etc. Bluetooth networks and the like.

According to other aspects network selection parameters can be sent over the air OTA to a subscriber identity module SIM device e.g. mobile terminal . The device can employ the parameters in subsequent network selection. As a particular example to illustrate the foregoing a parameter can set a 2G GSM network as a default network for the device. Accordingly the device can utilize the parameter in subsequent network selection processes to select a 2G GSM network over other available networks.

Network selection can be implemented based on business logic that employs provisioning billing and network elements with input from subscriber account profiles remote communication features terminal and SIM capabilities rate plans account types or subscriber group types or the like or a combination thereof. Changes in subscriber settings can further be based on terminal location use of network capability based features use of voice or data services roaming service and status and so on. Change in these settings can occur based on account configuration changes or dynamic usage inputs from elements of a communication system or both. Dynamic changes to a terminal or SIM can also be incorporated into network selection business logic. Accordingly network selection can determine an optimal process for distributing traffic among available wireless networks considering capacity and load of such networks as well as service features and usage history of subscriber rate plans and accounts providing a balanced and efficient operating environment.

It should be appreciated that as described herein the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . The aforementioned carrier wave in conjunction with transmission or reception hardware and or software can also provide control of a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. Of course many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application and the amended claims the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As used herein the terms to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Turning now to the drawings depicts a block diagram of an example system that provides network selection in a mobile environment. System can comprise a network provisioning system that obtains data pertinent to individual mobile terminals not depicted and data pertinent to available networks and provides a network selection result for each terminal. The network selection result can comprise in some aspects disclosed herein a parameter indicating at least one network or type of network e.g. 2G 3G cellular WiFi etc. as a default for terminal initiated network selection e.g. stored on a SIM card . Terminal related information utilized for network selection can comprise access capabilities of a terminal or an associated SIM card what networks the terminal is capable of accessing features rate plans or account services that rely on a particular network versus availability of such network customer service and or user preference settings and the like. Suitable network information can comprise identity and type of available networks versus access capabilities of the terminal whether a regional market supports network selection traffic of the available networks and so forth.

Based on terminal capabilities and preferences and network availability network provisioning system can first determine whether a terminal is eligible for network selection. If so network provisioning system can then begin monitoring data usage of the terminal. Tracking component can observe mobile network usage over a threshold period to determine usage for that period. As an example tracking component can monitor the terminal s data usage e.g. measured in kilobytes per second KB s total KB exchanged average KB s etc. to determine a user s propensity to employ data related services. As another example tracking component can monitor utilization of voice services employed by the terminal to measure a user s calling traffic. In other examples tracking component can monitor call related data services e.g. streaming audio or video voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and so on to determine a user s propensity to employ such services. Once the period expires an analysis of the user s usage patterns for the period are provided to mediation component to determine if network selection is available a result of the selection.

If network selection is available for a particular mobile terminal within a particular location mediation component can select a network as a default for the mobile terminal or alter override a default network determined by manufacturer defaults. Based at least on the network usage analysis during the monitoring period and access capabilities of a mobile terminal mediation component can select a network as a default for the mobile terminal. The selection can be output from the network provisioning system to network components such as billing OTA provisioning switch control roaming selection and so on.

According to some aspects of the subject disclosure the output selection can be stored in a component of a mobile network not depicted as a network setting or N Set value for the mobile terminal. According to particular such aspects the N Set value s can be stored and implemented at an OTA provisioning platform e.g. see infra which employs radio access networks RANs to exchange data with the mobile terminal. The OTA provisioning platform can forward the N Set value or related parameters to the mobile terminal e.g. in an OTA application. Such an OTA application can be configured to store the selected network as a default network or instructions for selecting the selected network in a SIM card or other suitable location on the mobile device.

OTA system platform is coupled to a data store that stores information pertaining to mobile network usage patterns of a mobile terminal as described herein. The mobile terminal accesses a mobile network via one or more wireless base stations e.g. base transceiver station BTS radio base station RBS Node B home Node B HNB enhanced Node B eNB or enhanced home Node B HeNB . The base station s acts as a wireless access point to network enabling wireless access to mobile communication services such as voice calls short message service SMS data calls etc. and mobile data services such as Internet browsing text messaging and the like. The network includes various network servers to implement communication services and communication functions. Servers can include billing and charging servers OTA provisioning servers switch control and so on. One function of servers can be to maintain usage records pertaining to mobile services consumed by mobile terminal . Examples of such records can comprise time spent utilizing voice services e.g. call minutes KB of data consumed instances that a particular service is engaged e.g. number of times VoIP streaming video streaming audio etc. are employed or the like. Such usage can be extracted and categorized by a tracking component and stored at data store in a subscriber data profile .

OTA system platform can comprise an analysis component that employs the data stored in the subscriber data profile to determine usage patterns of the mobile terminal . In some aspects usage patterns can be determined over particular time periods. For instance where OTA system platform determines that mobile terminal is eligible for network selection mediation module can implement a determination period DP . Analysis component can determine the usage behavior of mobile terminal from data stored in the subscriber data profile over the DP. The usage behavior for the DP is forwarded to the mediation component for network selection.

Mediation component can employ one or more thresholds for establishing a suitable default network for the mobile terminal . The thresholds can be set based on load capacity and resources of a particular network. Thus for instance a data usage threshold for a 2G 3G network can be based on data capacity of the network e.g. 10 megabits per second Mb s compared with average usage e.g. 7 Mb s and average load e.g. 20 terminals at 0.35 Mb s average . Thus a data threshold for the 2G 3G network might be 0.35 Mb s or some other suitable value. Accordingly mediation component can employ the data usage analysis pertaining to mobile terminal and compare the usage to thresholds for a 2G network having a relatively low data rate and 2G 3G network having a relatively high data rate. Thus utilizing the foregoing example if the data usage does not exceed 0.35 Mb s during the DP or e.g. is within a predetermined percentage of the threshold mediation component can select the 2G network for mobile terminal . On the other hand if the data usage exceeds the 0.35 Mb s threshold during the DP the 2G 3G network can be selected for the mobile terminal .

In some aspects of the subject disclosure mediation component can employ a signaling interface to obtain subscriber information and or preferences for mobile terminal from an HLR . Thus for instance where a subscriber profile indicates that data services or high data usage is preferred mediation component can employ the high data usage preference in the network selection. Thus for instance even though data usage for the mobile terminal is below a threshold for 2G 3G network selection mediation component can select the 2G 3G network based on the subscriber profile preference.

In addition to the foregoing mediation component can initiate a re evaluation period RP after selecting a network for the mobile terminal . During the RP analysis component tracks usage characteristics of the terminal . The RP usage characteristics can be forwarded to mediation component for further determination. Based on such determination the mediation component can maintain the selected network as a default for mobile terminal or select a different network. To continue the foregoing example if the data usage exceeds the 0.35 Mb s threshold during the RP and a subscriber profile does not indicate a preference for 2G networks mediation component can switch the default network to a 2G 3G network. Once the default network is switched a second RP can be initiated to further monitor terminal data usage. Upon expiration of the RP a further determination can be made as described above.

System comprises an OTA platform that provides network selection for mobile terminal as described herein. The terminal can be configured to access multiple mobile networks A B utilizing respective access points e.g. base stations A B . In some aspects the mobile networks A B can be different types of networks such as a 2G network A and a 3G network B. It should be appreciated however that various other types of networks are contemplated as part of network selection depending on access capabilities of mobile terminal or a SIM card e.g. containing active subscriptions to one or more such networks employed by such terminal . Thus for instance the respective networks A B can be include 2G 2G 3G 3G or 4G networks WiFi networks or the like or a combination thereof.

OTA platform can determine access capabilities of the mobile terminal to identify whether network selection is suitable for the terminal or to limit prospective network selections. The access capabilities can be obtained by querying mobile terminal via OTA communication through a mobile network A B by accessing a data store comprising a subscriber profile record by accessing an HLR not depicted comprising such information or the like. OTA platform can then determine the types of networks A B observed by the mobile terminal . As depicted in the example provided by system two networks are available for mobile terminal a 2G network A e.g. a GSM network and a 3G network B e.g. a UMTS network . Upon comparing the access capabilities with the available networks A B OTA platform can limit the prospective networks available for selection.

If multiple networks observed by mobile terminal are also accessible by the terminal OTA platform initiates logic to select a network as a default as described herein. Thus for instance if mobile terminal data usage is below a threshold the 2G network can be selected in lieu of the 3G network and so on. In some aspects of the subject disclosure a loading component can monitor contemporaneous load of the respective networks A B. If the load of either network rises above a threshold level or services connectivity throughput etc. drop below a reliability threshold OTA platform can forego selection of one network in favor of another. To continue the previous example if the current load on the 2G network indicates that call connectivity is suspect the 3G network B can be selected for mobile terminal instead of the 2G network. Once a selection is made a download component can be employed to send suitable information applications to the mobile terminal in order to modify default network selection procedures. Thus for instance if the mobile terminal is configured to select the 3G network B over the 2G network A an application updating this configuration can be provisioned OTA to the mobile terminal by download component .

In addition to the foregoing OTA platform can connect to a customer service UI interface that obtains authorized user input pertaining to network selection. The authorized user can comprise for instance customer service personnel of an operator providing mobile services for mobile terminal . Based on the authorized input OTA platform can select one of the networks A B override a previous selection and so forth. Additionally user input can lock a particular network selection to prevent OTA platform from changing the selection based on network conditions. A locked selection can be changed only based on further user input. In some aspects the further user input can comprise subsequent authorized customer service input or subscriber input e.g. entered onto mobile terminal . According to further aspects network selection can be super locked requiring authorized customer service input to override the lock. In such aspects the authorized customer service input can require a high level access over and above authorization required to manually select a network or lock such a selection. Thus for instance approval of a high level technician a billings and account manager or the like can be required to override the super lock. Thus where a subscriber is not current on 3G service account payments for instance network selection can be super locked to the 2G network preventing utilization of the 3G services. As described system provides additional flexibility for network selection enabling manual network selection or selection override based on logic that might not be implemented in the determination employed by OTA platform .

The OTA platform can be coupled with a switch control via an OTA SOAP application programming interface API e.g. the simple object access protocol or later versions thereof . Switch control can maintain network selection capabilities of mobile terminals. Such capabilities can be determined by comparing an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI entered at a point of sale POS for a subscriber with a billing system IMEI table maintained by a records and billing platform . The billing system IMEI table can maintain a list of device capability values DCAP value as a function of ranges of IMEI values and employ a communication interface to provide the DCAP value to other components e.g. a common services interface CSI . By comparing the IMEI value to the IMEI table switch control can extract and store network selection capabilities of mobile terminals. OTA platform can employ an IMEI of a mobile terminal to query the DCAP value of the mobile terminal from the switch control. Furthermore if the DCAP value indicates the mobile terminal is not eligible for network selection OTA platform can verify this result by referencing a terminal support table maintained by an IMEI trigger platform ITP .

ITP can separately maintain and reference a terminal support network selection table. Such a table can list network select capabilities as well as current network select settings e.g. a default selection locked or super locked selection DP RP as a function of mobile identifier e.g. IMEI . If a network select value is available ITP can return such value to the OTA platform . Otherwise ITP responds indicating such a value is not currently available and can wait for a response from the mobile terminal for a default network select update period e.g. an hour 12 hours a day 2 days etc. . If the network select value is provided by the terminal in the update period ITP will provide the value to OTA platform . Otherwise ITP responds indicating that the mobile terminal is not network select capable.

Additionally system can comprise a roaming selection server RSS that can determine whether a subscriber s mobile terminal is roaming on a foreign network. According to some aspects of the subject disclosure such determination can also include whether the mobile terminal is configured for network selection and any network selection values currently established for the subscriber e.g. a network selection a network selection lock or super lock a data usage determination period a data usage re evaluation period or the like . When the subscriber registers on the foreign network RSS can determine whether the current network selection if any should be maintained or changed or returned to terminal defaults. The determination can be made on whether the foreign network is network select capable whether suitable contracts with the foreign network exist or the like. If the foreign network is not network select capable RSS can request the OTA platform restore terminal defaults or select a most preferred network consistent with subscriber profile information e.g. based on subscription records maintained at records and billing platform .

If RSS requests a change to a subscriber s network selection OTA platform can implement the change. The change can be maintained for a default period of time e.g. a week month etc. or can be maintained until the subscriber registers onto network select capable network. Once the default period of time expires or the subscriber registers onto a network select capable network RSS can update the OTA platform to implement further network select functions based on such result.

According to still other aspects system can comprise a mapping platform that tracks cellular network coverage. OTA platform can update the mapping platform with a network select value that can be referenced by the mapping platform relative to current network coverage of a mobile terminal associated with the value. OTA platform can further be coupled with a user interface via an OTA SOAP API. As described herein the user interface can provide authorized input to the OTA platform for manual network selection or locking or super locking a selection. It should be appreciated that the server platform configuration depicted by system is but one exemplary arrangement suitable to determine suitability of network selection or implement network selection as described herein. Many other server platform arrangements are contemplated as part of the subject disclosure based on differences in network tracking billing roaming and like functions of various networks or network operators. Thus system should not be limited to the depicted illustrative embodiment of the subject disclosure but include other suitable arrangements for carrying out the above described functions or related functions related.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. For example a system could include network provisioning system data store load component and download component or a different combination of these and other components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. For instance records and billing can include switch control or vice versa to facilitate maintaining device capabilities and reporting such capabilities to an OTA platform by way of a single component. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia and in addition to that already described herein can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device device in conjunction with a carrier or media.

At method can set up a network select N Set account for the subscriber in a records and billing function. At method can initialize data fields for subscriber N Set evaluation. At method can track and analyze data usage for a determination period DP . At method can determine whether the data usage is greater than a threshold limit e.g. based on network load number of subscribers average subscriber data usage etc. . If not method can store an N Set value for the subscriber to LD representing a relatively low data network as a default for the subscriber e.g. a 2G network . At method can track and analyze the data on the LD network for a review period. At a determination is made as to whether data usage exceeds a review threshold. If so method proceeds to otherwise method can proceed to .

At method can set the subscriber N Set value to HD and terminate the LD review. Method can then return to reference number and track and analyze data usage for an HD review period. At method can monitor usage and account changes for HD requirements. Such requirements can include increase of data usage beyond the LD threshold limit addition of an HD feature or subscriber profile or customer service profile indicating a preference for HD network selection or the like. Accordingly method can select a network according to usage needs of the subscriber and balance network traffic among subscribers most likely to require particular services provided by particular networks and subscribers utilizing fewer or none of those services.

At method can determine whether the mobile terminal includes an N Set capable SIM card or UICC D. If not method can terminate the N Set process at otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is N Set capable. Such determination can be based on whether the mobile terminal is capable of accessing multiple N Set networks in a particular market. If the mobile terminal is not N Set capable method can proceed to at to verify device capability for instance based on ITP provisioning. Otherwise method can proceed to .

At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is locked at a particular N Set value e.g. locked on HD network selection or LD network selection or a suitable variation thereof . If the mobile terminal is N Set locked method can proceed to can terminate the N Set process. Otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether a subscriber account associated with the mobile terminal employs HD features e.g. a data service rate plan unlimited data usage high QoS features or the like . If HD features are employed method can proceed to at otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is configured for access to a femtocell access point e.g. HNB HeNB . If the mobile terminal is not configured for femtocell access method can proceed to at otherwise method can proceed to at .

Referring now to and methodology at method can determine whether the mobile terminal has an account type or rate plan that excludes N Set provisioning. If so method proceeds to at otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is associated with a reseller that prohibits N Set provisioning. If so method can proceed to at otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the mobile device is associated with a mobile identifier e.g. IMEI that prohibits N Set provisioning or prohibits change to a current N Set value. For instance the identifier can be locked or super locked from changes and loaded into a database for locked super locked terminals. As another example the IMEI can be associated with a terminal or SIM card that does not have multiple network access capabilities. If the identifier is excluded from N Set provisioning method proceeds to at otherwise method can proceed to .

Once method reaches the mobile terminal is deemed to be capable of N Set provisioning and not excluded from such provisioning. Subsequent determinations therefore are directed to determining current N Set values of the terminal or determining whether an N Set evaluation process is in progress.

At method can determine whether a service usage DP or RP is in progress for the mobile terminal. If so the DP or RP is continued at and method terminates. Otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the subscriber has a current N Set value e.g. set to LD or HD locked super locked LD or HD evaluation or re evaluation . If not method can proceed to where the N Set value is updated to HD review in a network records and billing function otherwise method can proceed to . From method can proceed to at .

At method can determine whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to HD . If so method proceeds to where the N Set value in the network records and billing function is set to HD review and method can proceed to at . If the N Set value for the mobile terminal is not set to HD method proceeds to where the N Set value in the network records and billing function is updated to LD review. From method can proceed to at .

At method can determine whether the mobile terminal has a UICC D e.g. SIM card that supports N Set provisioning. If so method can proceed to . Otherwise method continues at where a network records and billing functions is updated to indicate that the N Set functionality is not supported for the UICC D.

At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is an N Set capable terminal. If not method proceeds to otherwise method can continue at . At method can determine whether an N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to a particular network selection such as an HD or LD network whether a network setting is locked or in a usage review process. If not method can proceed to and update the network records and billing function to indicate that N Set functionality is not supported for the mobile terminal. On the other hand if the determination at reference number indicates that the mobile terminal is associated with an N Set network selection selection lock or selection review method proceeds to where a default network selection is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. In some aspects the default network selection can be a default provided by mobile terminal manufacturer specifications. In other aspects the default can be an HD network such as 2G 3G network 3G network etc. At method can determine whether the download is confirmed at the mobile terminal UICC D. If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated to indicate that N Set functionality is not supported by the mobile terminal. Otherwise method proceeds to where method can update the N Set value at the network records and billing functionality to LD review and initiate an RP for the LD setting.

At method can determine whether an N Set value for the N Set capable mobile terminal is set to locked or super locked. If so method can proceed to where the N Set value is maintained and the process ends. Otherwise method can proceed to where a determination is made as to whether the N Set value is LD or LD review. If not method proceeds to where the N Set value in the network records and billing function is updated to HD setting and the process terminates. Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether the download was confirmed by the mobile terminal. If not method proceeds to where an N Set value of LD review is updated to the network records and billing function and re evaluation is conducted for LD setting. Otherwise method can proceed to where an N Set value of HD is updated to the network records and billing function and a DP or RP process is terminated.

In accordance with methodology reference numbers through can be implemented at a network ITP or a suitable device providing like functionality e.g. see supra . At method can determine whether an MSISDN mobile station international integrated services digital network ISDN number is on record for the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to where a determination is made as to whether an N Set terminal support table TST entry is available for the mobile terminal specifying N Set capabilities of the terminal. If so method can proceed to otherwise method proceeds to . At method can initialize a timer for N Set TST response. At a determination is made as to whether the N Set TST entry is obtained within the timer period. If so method can proceed to otherwise method proceeds to . At method can determine whether the mobile terminal is N Set capable. If so method proceeds to where an N Set capability for the mobile terminal is set to True.

At method can determine whether a subscriber associated with the mobile terminal has an N Set value. If so method proceeds to otherwise method can proceed to . At method can set an N Set value for the subscriber to unavailable in a network records and billing function. At method can determine whether the subscriber s N Set value is set to HD HD lock or HD review. If so method can proceed to where an N Set value for the subscriber is set to unavailable in the network and billings function. Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to the subscriber s terminal. At the network records and billing function can be updated to indicate the subscriber is not N Set capable. At method can determine whether the download was successful. If not method proceeds to . Otherwise method can proceed to where the network records and billing function is updated to an N Set value of LD and LD re evaluation is initiated.

At method can determine whether the N Set value of the mobile terminal is set to LD or LD review. If so method proceeds to otherwise method can proceed to . At method can update an N Set value in the network records and billing function to HD and terminate any existing DP for the mobile terminal.

At method can download an N Set value of HD to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can obtain confirmation of the download. If the download is confirmed method proceeds to . If the download is not confirmed method can proceed to where an N Set value in the network records and billing function is set to LD review for the mobile terminal. Upon setting the N Set value to LD review N Set re evaluation is initiated.

At method can determine whether a service measurement period U has expired. If not method can proceed to otherwise method proceeds to . At method can set a service usage parameter DU e.g. representing use or particular network services or network data consumption associated with mobile data services to the sum of service usage in U time period plus service usage in a current time period e.g. current day current hour etc. . At method can determine whether DU is greater than a threshold usage parameter W. If not method proceeds to where at the end of a measurement time period e.g. a day measurement period U is incremented. If DU is determined to be greater than the threshold W method proceeds to where the subscriber N Set value is set to HD . At method can update the network records and billing function to reflect the HD N Set value.

At method can set the service usage parameter DU to the sum of the service usage in U time period plus service usage in a current time period. At method can determine whether DU is greater than the threshold usage parameter W. If so method can proceed to as discussed above. Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of LD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether download confirmation is received form the mobile terminal. If not method can proceed to where the current DU value is retained and method proceeds back to . Otherwise method can proceed to where the network records and billing function is updated to an N Set value of LD review for the mobile terminal. From method can proceed to methodology at where LD re evaluation is conducted discussed infra at .

At method can determine whether the number of sub periods Z has expired to zero. If not method returns to . Otherwise method proceeds to where the service usage parameter DU is re initialized at zero. At method can re initialize the number of sub periods Z and return to .

At method can download an N Set value of HD to the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether the download is complete. If not method can re initiate the download at . Otherwise method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated to reflect the HD N Set value and the re evaluation process can terminate.

At method can check a current N Set value for the roaming subscriber. At a determination is made as to whether the N Set value is set to LD or LD or HD review. If not method can proceed to where typical RSS provisioning is implemented for the roaming subscriber. If the N Set value is set to LD or LD HD review method can proceed to where an N Set state change request is sent to a platform managing N Set determination for the roaming subscriber requesting the N Set value be set to HD or a default network for the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to LD or review. If not method proceeds to where the N Set value is set to HD or a network default and any service usage determination period is maintained in a current state. At a roaming timer can be set to maintain the HD or network default N Set value. Method can then proceed to at A.

If the determination at reference number indicates that the N Set value for the roaming subscriber is set to LD or LD review method can proceed to where an N Set value of HD or a manufacturer network selection default is downloaded to a UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether confirmation of the download is obtained. If not method can proceed to where a current N Set value is maintained in the network records and billing function. Otherwise method can proceed to where the N Set value is updated to HD at the network records and billing function and any service usage re evaluation period state is maintained. At a roaming subscriber timer is set and method can proceed to at B.

Methodology B continues from method at . At B method B can determine whether the roaming timer parameter T is expired at zero. If not method B can proceed to B where the timer parameter T is decremented and method B returns to B. If the timer parameter T has expired to zero method B can proceed to B. At B method B can determine whether an N Set value of LD has been downloaded to the mobile terminal. If the N Set value of LD has been downloaded to the mobile terminal method B proceeds to B where the network records and billing function is updated to an N Set value of LD or LD review and re evaluation can proceed as described herein. Otherwise method B proceeds to B where an N Set value of HD is updated to the network records and billing function and method B terminates.

At method can determine whether a current N Set value of the mobile terminal is set to LD LD lock or LD review. If so method proceeds to where the N Set value is updated to LD super lock in accordance with the obtained input. Otherwise method can proceed to where an N Set value of LD is downloaded to a UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether the download is confirmed by the mobile terminal. If confirmation is obtained method proceeds to otherwise method can proceed to where an N Set value of HD is updated to the network records and billing function and any service usage determination period is terminated.

At method can determine whether an N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to LD super lock or HD based on a HD lock input obtained at reference number . If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to where a determination is made as to whether the N Set value is HD . If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated with an HD lock value. Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether the download is confirmed by the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can proceed to where the network records and billing function is updated to an N Set value of LD for the mobile terminal.

At method can determine whether an N Set value of the mobile terminal is set to HD based on receiving the HD super lock input at reference number . If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value of HD super lock for the mobile terminal. Otherwise method can proceed to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination can be made as to whether a confirmation of the download is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method can proceed to otherwise method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value of LD for the mobile terminal.

At method can initialize pushing the LD input to the mobile device. At method can determine whether an N Set value for the mobile terminal is locked or super locked. If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the N Set value is set to LD or LD review. If so method proceeds to where an N Set value in the network records and billing function is updated to LD . Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of LD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether a confirmation of the download is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can update the network records and billing function to an N Set value of HD for the mobile terminal.

At method can initialize a pushing an HD input to the mobile device based on obtaining an HD network selection input at reference number . At method can determine whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is locked or super locked. If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to where a determination is made as to whether an N Set value of HD or HD review is set for the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated to reflect an N Set value of HD . Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether a download confirmation is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can update the network records and billing function with an N Set value of LD .

At method can determine whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to super lock. If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to where a determination is made as to whether the N Set value is set to LD or LD review. If so method can update the network records and billing function with an N Set value of LD for the mobile terminal. Otherwise method can proceed to . At method can download an N Set value of LD to a UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether a download confirmation is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can update the network records and billing function with an N Set value of HD .

At method can determine whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to LD super lock or HD based on obtaining a lock HD input at reference number . If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to where a determination is made as to whether the N Set value for the mobile terminal is set to HD . If so method can update the network records and billing function with an N Set value of HD lock at . Otherwise method proceeds to and downloads an N Set value of HD to the mobile terminal. At a determination is made as to whether a download confirmation is obtained form the mobile terminal. If so method can proceed to . Otherwise method updates the network records and billing function to an N Set value of LD at .

At method can determine whether an N Set value for the mobile terminal is super locked based on obtaining an HD input at reference number . If so method terminates at . Otherwise method can proceed to . At method can determine whether the N Set value is HD HD lock or HD review. If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value of HD . Otherwise method can proceed to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to a UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether a download confirmation is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can update the network records and billing function with an N Set value of LD .

At method can analyze a new input from an input interface. If the new input comprises an N Set value of HD HD lock HD super lock or HD review method proceeds to . Otherwise if the new input comprises an N Set value of LD LD super lock or LD review method can proceed to .

At method determines whether an N Set value for the mobile terminal is currently set to HD HD lock or HD review. If so method updates the network records and billing function with an N Set value corresponding to the new HD related user input. Otherwise method proceeds to where an N Set value of HD is downloaded to a UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether a download confirmation is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can proceed to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value of LD .

At method can determine whether an N Set value of the mobile terminal is set to LD LD super lock or LD review based on obtaining an LD related input at reference number . If so method proceeds to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value corresponding with the LD related user input. Otherwise method proceeds to . At method can download an LD N Set value to the UICC D of the mobile terminal. At method can determine whether a download confirmation is obtained from the mobile terminal. If so method proceeds to . Otherwise method can proceed to where the network records and billing function is updated with an N Set value of HD for the mobile terminal.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of an exemplary computer system operable to execute aspects of the subject disclosure. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the claimed subject matter can be implemented. Additionally while the claimed subject matter described above can be suitable for application in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers the claimed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media can include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Continuing to reference the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples to system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual or quad microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD A e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive A can also be configured for external use B in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject matter claimed herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the claimed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least WiFi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

WiFi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. WiFi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. WiFi networks use radio technologies called IEEE802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A WiFi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE802.3 or Ethernet . WiFi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 19 BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Now turning to such figure depicts a GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture that includes a GSM core network a GPRS network and an IP multimedia network . The GSM core network includes a Mobile Station MS at least one Base Transceiver Station BTS and a Base Station Controller BSC . The MS is physical equipment or Mobile Equipment ME such as a mobile phone or a laptop computer that is used by mobile subscribers with a Subscriber identity Module SIM . The SIM includes an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI which is a unique identifier of a subscriber. The MS includes an embedded client that receives and processes messages received by the MS . The embedded client can be implemented in JAVA and is discuss more fully below.

The embedded client communicates with an application that provides services and or information to an end user. One example of the application can be navigation software that provides near real time traffic information that is received via the embedded client to the end user. The navigation software can provide road conditions suggest alternate routes etc. based on the location of the MS . Those of ordinary skill in the art understand that there are many different methods and systems of locating an MS .

Alternatively the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH. For example a BLUETOOTH SIM Access Profile can be provided in an automobile e.g. device that communicates with the SIM in the MS to enable the automobile s communications system to pull information from the MS . The BLUETOOTH communication system in the vehicle becomes an embedded phone that employs an antenna associated with the automobile. The result is improved reception of calls made in the vehicle. As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize an automobile is one example of the device . There can be an endless number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS. Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that includes selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR includes information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations and security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS. the SGSN arc the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. The MS can operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS also supports simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles can receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time. A class B MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However a class B MS does not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is a class B MS can only use one of the two services at a given time. A class C MS can attach for only one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time. Simultaneous attachment and operation of GPRS services and GSM services is not possible with a class C MS.

A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM network a MS can receive pages from a circuit switched domain voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS can suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM network a MS cannot receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS is receiving data and is not listening to a paging channel. In a NOM network a MS can monitor pages for a circuit switched network while received data and vise versa.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSS s are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS .

The HSS includes a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that includes the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane inter working functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with other IP multimedia networks .

What has been described above includes examples of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of such matter are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

