---

title: Providing logistics execution application as enterprise services
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including systems and computer program products, for a service architecture design that provides enterprise services having logistics execution functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations, process components, and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08326706&OS=08326706&RS=08326706
owner: SAP AG
number: 08326706
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
This specification relates to data processing systems implemented on computers and more particular to data processing systems providing services in the nature of web services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

Web services are one technology for making the functionality of software applications available to other software including other applications. A web service is a standards based way of encapsulating the functionality of an application that other applications can locate and access. A service oriented architecture is a distributed software model within which functionality is defined as independent web services. Within a service oriented architecture web services can be used in defined sequences according to business logic to form applications that enable business processes.

This specification describes a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having production and site logistics execution management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. Enterprise services are web services that have an enterprise level business value.

In its various aspects the invention can be embodied in systems methods and computer program products. For example a system in one embodiment implements a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having production and site logistics execution functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations process components and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The elements of the architecture include the business object the process component the service operation or simply the operation the service interface the message and the deployment unit. The elements can also include process agents and reuse service components. These will be described below.

In some implementations the software is implemented to be deployed on an application platform that includes a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that can used from multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects or reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces. When deployed on separate computer platforms the fundamental entities of the foundation layer should appear the same across all platforms. To achieve this the foundation layer entities are synchronized across the platforms on which the foundation layer is deployed. Any convenient conventional technique of data record or object synchronization can be implemented to accomplish the synchronization.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements enterprise application service interfaces. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects.

A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content and instances of business objects include content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term object is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Also for convenience and brevity an object instance may be described in this specification as being or including a real world event activity item or the like however such description should be understood as stating that the object instance represents i.e. contains data representing the respective event activity item or the like. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . A mass data run object is an application object that executes an algorithm for a particular mass data run. An instance of a mass data run object embodies or contains a particular set of selections and parameters. A mass data run object implements an algorithm that modifies manages and or processes a large amount of data in multiple transactions possibly but not necessarily with parallel processing. A dependent object is a business object used as a reuse part in another business object. A dependent object represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business point of view. Instances of dependent objects only occur in the context of a non dependent business object. A transformed object is a transformation of multiple business objects for a well defined purpose. It transforms the structure of multiple business objects into a common structure. A transformed object does not have own persistency. The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters or some combination of them serving as a signature. For convenience in supporting use of the operations supported by a system implementing elements of the design such a system can optionally include a repository of service descriptions that includes a standards based description of each of the supported service operations.

The architectural elements also optionally include the service interface which may be referred to simply as an interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might implement multiple interfaces. In some implementations an interface will have only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can include both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will preferably belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance.

An outbound process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered an agent or caused the agent to be called. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components and optionally one or more business objects that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging to one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interactions i.e. interactions between process components involving their respective business objects operations interfaces and messages within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions between process components that occur only within a deployment unit are not constrained to using service operations. These can be implemented in any convenient fashion.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are preferably assigned to their respective deployment unit.

As shown in a Production and Site Logistics Execution deployment unit includes an Inbound Delivery Processing process component a Production process component an Inventory Processing process component a Logistics Control process component an Outbound Delivery Processing process component a Material Inspection Processing process component a Site Logistics Processing process component a Logistics Task Management process component and a Physical Inventory Processing process component .

The Inbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Inbound Delivery Request business object an Inbound Delivery business object and a Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object .

The Production process component includes a Production Request business object a Production Execution Task View business object a Production Order business object a Production Lot Closure Run business object a Production Task business object a Production Order Creation Run business object a Production Confirmation business object a Production Order Release Run business object and a Production Lot business object .

The Inventory Processing process component includes a Goods and Activity Confirmation business object an Identified Logistic Unit business object and an Inventory business object .

The Logistics Control process component includes an Execution Material Flow View business object an Inventory Level Adjustment Run business object and a Logistics Layout Execution View business object .

The Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes an Outbound Delivery Request business object an Outbound Delivery business object and a Confirmed Outbound Delivery business object .

The Material Inspection Processing process component includes a Material Inspection business object a Material Inspection Quality Level business object and a Material Inspection Sample business object .

The Site Logistics Processing process component includes a Site Logistics Request business object a Site Logistics Order business object a Site Logistics Task business object a Site Logistics Confirmation business object a Site Logistics Execution Task View business object and a Site Logistics Lot business object .

The Logistics Task Management process component includes a Logistics Task Folder business object and a Logistics Task View business object .

The Physical Inventory Processing process component includes a Physical Inventory task business object and a Physical Inventory Count business object .

The Inbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a product recipient to receive a composition of goods. The Inbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are received by a product recipient. The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object represents a confirmation that a certain composition of goods has actually been received by a product recipient.

The Production Request business object represents a request to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. The Production Request business object also includes accepted and fulfillment data representing a response from production execution. The Production Execution Task View business object represents a view of production execution that is used to process a production task from start to finish.

The Production Order business object represents an order to produce a specific quantity of material within a predefined time. The Production Order business object includes information used for the actual execution of the production process. The Production Lot Closure Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that closes selected production lots. The Production Task business object represents a task in production that a processor executes at a specific time at a predefined production step within a production process. The Production Order Creation Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that creates production orders from production segments of production requests.

The Production Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a production process at a specific time. The Production Confirmation business object includes the following changes inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations service product consumptions work in process quantity changes and progress status changes.

The Production Order Release Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that releases production orders. The Production Lot business object represents a certain quantity of materials that is and has been produced as a group with reference to an order. The Production Lot business object collects information during the production process that is described by operations and activities.

The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed inventory changes that occurred at a specific time. The Inventory business object represents a quantity of all materials in a certain location including the material reservations at that location. Quantities of materials can be physically grouped using an Identified Logistic Unit business object or a Logistic Unit business object .

The Execution Material Flow View business object represents a view on a time dependent flow of materials into or out of certain locations or between locations in logistics execution. The Inventory Level Adjustment Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that adjusts the level of inventory for selected storage locations by initiating replenishment or cleanup. The Logistics Layout Execution View business object represents a floor plan of a defined area within a location that reflects a spatial arrangement of logistics areas and resources combined with a time dependent view of the definable and measurable parameters that are relevant for logistics execution.

The Outbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping. The Outbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are provided for shipping by a vendor. The Confirmed Outbound Delivery business object represents a confirmation from a product recipient that a certain composition of goods has actually been received.

The Material Inspection business object represents a document that describes the execution of an inspection for a particular material and that is used to record the inspection. The Material Inspection Quality Level business object represents the current quality level for an inspection area. The quality level is determined based on the results of material inspections. The inspection area can include any combination of materials vendors receiving plants or receiving logistics areas. The Material Inspection Sample business object represents a sample used for an examination in the context of a material inspection. The sample is the subject of examination for inspection procedures. A sample can be taken from a material independently of a material inspection and if necessary it can later be assigned to a material inspection.

The Site Logistics Request business object represents an internal request for site logistics to prepare and perform within a certain time period an outbound inbound or internal site logistics process. The Site Logistics Order business object represents a request to handle a specific quantity of stock within a predefined time. The Site Logistics Order business object includes information used for the execution of the site logistics process. The Site Logistics Task business object represents a task for executing a logistics operation or activity within a site. For example the Site Logistics Task business object can represent a piece of work to be performed by a person or an automated system. The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time. Some exemplary changes are inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations and progress status changes. The Site Logistics Lot business object represents a certain quantity of materials and or logistic packages that have been processed as a group with reference to a site logistics request segment or a site logistics order. The Site Logistics Lot business object collects information during the execution of a site logistics process that is described by operations and activities.

The Logistics Task Folder business object represents a folder used for storing and grouping logistics tasks according to business criteria. The Logistics Task Folder business object includes details about processors registered at the folder. The Logistics Task View business object represents a view of logistics tasks providing detailed information to support a worker in selecting and processing a logistics task.

The Physical Inventory Task business object represents a task for executing a count or count approval activity of a physical inventory count within a site. The Physical Inventory business object represents a piece of work to be performed by a person or by an automated system. The Physical Inventory Count business object represents instructions on how to execute and approve a physical inventory count of materials and packages. The Physical Inventory Count business object also includes results of the physical inventory and any differences between the physical inventory and the book inventory.

In some cases elements of the design can include process components and other elements that are part of an underlying foundation layer . As shown in the foundation layer includes a Logistics Area and Storage Management process component a Location Data Management process component an Installed Base Data Management process component a Source of Supply Determination process component a Production Model Management process component a Logistic Unit Data Management process component and an Inspection Master Data Management process component .

The Logistics Area and Storage Management process component includes a Logistics Area master data object a Logistics Source and Destination Determination Rule master data object a Storage Behavior Method master data object and a Storage Control business object .

The Location Data Management process component includes a Location master data object a Transportation Zone master data object a Transportation Lane master data object and a Supply Planning Area master data object .

The Installed Base Data Management process component includes an Installed Base master data object and an Installation Point master data object .

The Source of Supply Determination process component includes a Sourcing List transformed object a Supply Quota Arrangement master data object a Source of Supply master data object and a Sourcing Allocation business process object .

The Production Model Management process component includes a Released Execution Production Model master data object a Released Planning Production Model master data object a Production Bill of Material master data object a Production Model master data object a Production Segment master data object and a Production Bill of Operations master data object .

The Logistic Unit Data Management process component includes a Logistic Unit master data object a Packing Bill of Material master data object and a Logistic Unit Usage master data object .

The Inspection Master Data Management process component includes an Inspection Rule master data object a Quality Issue Category Catalogue master data object and a Sample Drawing Procedure master data object .

As shown in the foundation layer also includes a Site Logistics Model Management process component a Resource Data Management process component a Logistics Shift Administration process component and a Product Data Management process component .

The Site Logistics Model Management process component includes a Site Logistics Bill of Operations master data object a Site Logistics Process Segment master data object a Site Logistics Process Model master data object and a Released Site Logistics Process Model master data object . The Resource Data Management process component includes an Equipment Resource master data object a Vehicle Resource master data object a Labor Resource master data object a Resource Group master data object a Resource transformed object and a Resource Operating Time Template master data object .

The Logistics Shift Administration process component includes a Logistics Break Program master data object a Logistics Shift master data object and a Logistics Shift Program master data object . The Product Data Management process component includes an Identified Stock master data object .

The Site Logistics Bill of Operations master data object represents a description of a process for a company internal movement of goods goods receipt or goods issue. The Site Logistics Bill of Operations master data object defines any inventory changes with regard to location structure or quantity that may arise as a result of unloading unpacking or transportation. The Site Logistics Bill of Operations master data object also defines the resources logistic units standard values and work instructions to be used.

The Site Logistics Process Segment master data object represents a part of a logistics process specified by a net of operations for packing moving and checking of goods. The Site Logistics Process Model master data object represents a model of a site logistics process that is specified by a sequence of site logistics process segments. The Released Site Logistics Process Model master data object represents a released version of a site logistics process model that includes elements used for defining and describing the execution of a site logistics process.

The Equipment Resource master data object represents a machine device tool or a group of identical machines devices or tools that has the capacity to provide services. The Vehicle Resource master data object represents a means of transportation or a group of identical means of transportation that has the capacity to provide transportation services. The Resource Group master data object represents a grouping of individual resources that provide similar services or have similar physical and functional characteristics.

The Resource transformed object represents an asset that contributes to the sourcing production or delivery of a product. The Resource Operating Time Template master data object represents a template of an operating time definition that includes information used to maintain operating times for multiple resources.

The Logistics Break Program master data object represents a set of breaks in supply chain processes such as production warehousing and transportation that are either scheduled at an absolute time of the day or scheduled relative to the start time of a shift. The Logistics Shift master data object represents a period of working time called a shift in supply chain processes such as production warehousing and transportation that can be interrupted by breaks. The Logistics Shift Program master data object represents a set of shifts organized as a generic program in supply chain processes such as production warehousing and transportation that span over a period of time. The Identified Stock master data object represents a subset of a material that shares a set of common characteristics is logistically handled separately from other subsets of the same material and is uniquely identified.

As shown in a Logistics Execution Control process component which is external to the process component is included for convenience in describing this process component. The Logistics Execution Control process component creates controls and monitors supply chain execution activities that are necessary for the fulfillment of an order on a macro logistics level e.g. the process component can trigger necessary site logistics activities and receive information about the supply chain execution progress . While the external software can be implemented as such a process component this is not required.

The Inbound Delivery Request business object represents a request to a product recipient to receive a composition of goods. The Logistics Execution Control process component sends an update to a Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface . The Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation receives a delivery fulfillment request from the Logistics Execution Control process component . The Maintain Inbound Delivery Request operation triggers a Maintain Inbound Delivery Request asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Inbound Delivery Request business object .

The update in the Inbound Delivery Request business object triggers a Confirm Fulfillment of Inbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Fulfillment operation . The operation is included in a Fulfillment Out interface . The Confirm Fulfillment operation sends a delivery fulfillment confirmation to the Logistics Execution Control process component .

An Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier external process component which is external to the process component is included for convenience in describing this process component. The Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component manages and processes at a supplier site outbound delivery requirements for shipping goods to a product recipient. While the external software can be implemented as such a process component this is not required.

The Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component sends an update to a Maintain Inbound Delivery operation . The operation is included in a Delivery Notification In interface . The Maintain Inbound Delivery operation receives a dispatched delivery notification from the Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component . The Maintain Inbound Delivery operation triggers a Maintain Inbound Delivery asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Inbound Delivery business object .

The Inbound Delivery business object represents a composition of the goods that are received by a product recipient.

As shown in a Supplier Invoice Processing process component and Customer Return Processing process component which are external to the process component are included for convenience in describing this process component. The Supplier Invoice Processing process component can handle management and volume processing of supplier invoices including exception handling and approval the Customer Return Processing process component can process requests made by customers to a seller to take back goods that were delivered and to reverse the sale however while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required.

The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object represents a confirmation that a certain composition of goods has actually been received by a product recipient.

The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object uses a Request Customer Return Execution from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Customer Return Processing asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Customer Return Execution from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Customer Return Processing asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Request Customer Return Execution operation that is included in a Request Customer Return Execution Out interface . The Request Customer Return Execution operation can send a message to the Customer Return Processing process component requesting execution of a customer return.

The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object also uses a Request Invoicing from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Supplier Invoice Processing asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Invoicing from Confirmed Inbound Delivery to Supplier Invoice Processing asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Invoicing Due operation in an Invoice Notification Out interface . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation sends an invoice due notification to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

The Confirmed Inbound Delivery business object also uses a Notify of Received Inbound Delivery to Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier asynchronous outbound process agent . The Notify of Received Inbound Delivery to Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Received Inbound Delivery operation in a Delivery Notification Out interface . The Notify of Received Inbound Delivery operation sends a received delivery notification to the Outbound Delivery Processing at Supplier process component .

As shown in the Production process component includes the Production Request business object and the Production Confirmation business object . The Production Request business object represents a request to production execution to produce a certain quantity of a specific material by a requested due date. Additionally the Production Request business object can include accepted and fulfillment data representing the response from the production execution. The Production Confirmation business object can record confirmed logistic process changes resulting from for example an execution of a production process. Some example changes are inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations service product consumptions work in process quantity changes and progress status changes.

The Production Trigger and Response process component sends an update to a Maintain Production Request operation that is included in a Producing In interface . The Maintain Production Request operation sends a production request message to request production. The Maintain Production Request operation triggers a Maintain Production Request inbound process agent to update the Production Request business object .

The Production Request business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. The update in the Production Request business object uses a Confirm Production Request to Production Trigger and Response asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Production Request operation in a Producing Out interface . The Confirm Production Request operation then sends a confirmation request to the Production Trigger and Response process component to confirm the maintenance of a production request and its execution progress. The outbound process agent can also invoke a Notify Planning of Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation in the interface . The Notify Planning of Production Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation can send a production request confirmation reconciliation notification to the Production Trigger and Response process component to notify the planning system of a reconciliation of a production request confirmation.

An update to the Production Confirmation business object triggers a Notify of Production Progress from Production Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent . The Notify of Production Progress from Production Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent may invoke either a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation notifies the Accounting process component about an inventory change. The Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation notifies the Accounting process component about a cancellation of an inventory change or production activity.

As shown in the Production process component also includes the Production Execution Task View business object the Production Order business object Production Lot Closure Run business object the Production Task business object the Production Order Creation Run business object the Production Order Release Run business object and the Production Lot business object . The Production Lot business object is a certain quantity of materials that is and has been produced as a group with reference to an order. For example the Production Lot business object collects all the actual information during the production process that is described by operations and activities. The Production Order business object represents an order to produce a specific quantity of material within a predefined time. For example the Production Order business object can include the information required for the actual execution of the production process. The Production Task business object represents a task in production that a processor executes at a predefined production step within a production process.

The Production Lot Closure Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that closes selected production lots. The Production Order Creation Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that creates production orders from production segments of production requests. The Production Order Release Run business object represents a specification of an automated run that releases production orders.

An update in the Production Lot business object triggers a Notify of Production Lot to Accounting asynchronous outbound process agent . The outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Production Lot Status Change operation in a Production Accounting Out interface . The Notify of Production Lot Status Change operation then informs the Accounting process component about a status change of a production lot. For example the Notify of Production Lot Status Change operation can send a production lot accounting notification to inform the Accounting process component about a status change of a production lot.

An update to the Production Order business object triggers a Notify of Production Order for Output asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Production Order operation . The operation is included in a Production Order Output Out interface . For example the Notify of Production Order operation can send a notification about a production order.

An update to the Production Task business object triggers a Request Production Task Execution for Output asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Production Task Execution operation in a Production Task Output Out interface . For example the Request Production Task Execution operation can send messages to request execution of a production task.

The Logistics Execution Control process component the Accounting process component and a Supply and Demand Matching process component which are external to the process component are included for convenience in describing this process component. However while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required. The Supply and Demand Matching process component handles management of tasks necessary to ensure that sufficient material receipt elements exist to cover material demand while taking available capacity into account.

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component also includes the Site Logistics Request business object the Site Logistics Order business object the Site Logistics Confirmation business object the Site Logistics Execution Task View business object and the Site Logistics Lot business object .

The Site Logistics Request business object represents an internal request for site logistics to prepare and perform within a certain time period an outbound inbound or internal site logistics process. The Logistics Execution Control process component may send a message to the Site Logistics Processing process component which is handled by a Maintain Site Logistics Request operation in a Site Logistics Processing In interface . For example the Maintain Site Logistics Request operation can create update or delete the Site Logistics Request business object using a Maintain Site Logistics Request inbound process agent . The update in the Site Logistics Request business object can trigger a Confirm Site Logistics Request to Logistic Execution Control asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm Site Logistics Request operation or a Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation in a Site Logistics Processing Out interface .

The Confirm Site Logistics Request operation can confirm receipt of a site logistics request and acknowledge quantities and delivery dates of the request. Furthermore the operation can inform the Logistics Execution Control process component about inventory changes and fulfillment of the Site Logistics Processing process component . The Notify Planning of Site Logistics Request Confirmation Reconciliation operation can notify the Logistics Execution Control process component of a reconciliation of a site logistics request confirmation.

The Site Logistics Order business object represents a request to handle a specific quantity of stock within a predefined time. The Site Logistics Order business object includes information used for the execution of the site logistics process. The Site Logistics Lot business object represents a certain quantity of materials and or logistic packages that has been processed as a group with reference to a site logistics request segment or a site logistics order. The Site Logistics Lot business object collects information during the execution of a site logistics process that is described by operations and activities.

The Site Logistics Confirmation business object represents a record of confirmed logistic process changes which result from the execution of a site logistics process at a specific time. Some exemplary changes are inventory changes plan adjustments resource utilizations and progress status changes.

An update in the Site Logistics Confirmation business object can trigger a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent . The Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked it sends an inventory change accounting notification to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked it sends a inventory change accounting cancellation to the Accounting process component .

An update in the Site Logistics Confirmation business object can also trigger a Notify of Site Logistics Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent . The Notify of Site Logistics Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent can invoke a Notify Planning of Site Logistics operation or a Notify of Site Logistics Reconciliation operation in a Site Logistics Notification Out interface . If the Notify Planning of Site Logistics operation is invoked a notification is sent to the Logistics Execution Control process component to notify about the creation of a new site logistics request and to create a site logistics requisition or update relevant inventory changes in an existing site logistics requisition. If the Notify of Site Logistics Reconciliation operation is invoked the Logistics Execution Control process component is sent a notification to notify of a reconciliation of a site logistics request.

As shown in an update in the Site Logistics Confirmation business object triggers a Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to a Supply and Demand Matching SDM outbound process agent . The Notify of Inventory Change from Site Logistics Confirmation to SDM outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Change operation in an Inventory Changing Out interface . The operation can send an inventory change planning notification to the Supply and Demand process component .

As shown in the Site Logistics Processing process component also includes the Site Logistics Task business object . The Site Logistics Task business object represents a task for executing a logistics operation or activity within a site. For example the Site Logistics Task business object can represent a piece of work to be performed by a person or an automated system.

The Site Logistics Task business object can use a Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Site Logistics Task Execution for Output outbound process agent invokes a Request Site Logistics Task Execution operation in a Site Logistics task Output Out interface to request the printing of site logistics task instructions.

An Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component a Customer Invoice Processing process component and the Logistics Execution Control process component which are external to the process component are included for convenience in describing this process component. For example the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component constitutes logistics execution driven by an inbound delivery request for receiving goods from a vendor at a customer. For example the process component may combine all tasks concerning the inbound delivery process preparation and triggering of execution and enable communication with the vendor and invoicing. This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system. The Customer Invoice Processing process component is used to process invoicing of customers for the delivery of goods or the provision of services. However while the external software can be implemented as such process components this is not required.

The Outbound Delivery Processing process component includes the Outbound Delivery Request business object and the Outbound Delivery business object .

The Outbound Delivery Request business object is a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping. The Logistics Execution Control process component sends an update to a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation included in a Fulfillment In interface . After receiving a delivery fulfillment request from the Logistics Execution Control process component the Maintain Outbound Delivery Request operation then triggers a Maintain Outbound Delivery Request asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Outbound Delivery Request business object . The update in the Outbound Delivery Request business object invokes a Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent . The Confirm Fulfillment of Outbound Delivery Request to Logistics Execution Control outbound process agent then invokes a Confirm Fulfillment operation in a Fulfillment Out interface . The operation can confirm the partial or complete fulfillment of a customer requirement to the creator of the requirement. For example the Confirm Fulfillment operation sends a delivery fulfillment confirmation message to the Logistics Execution Control process component .

The Outbound Delivery business object is a request to a vendor to compose goods for shipping. An update in the Outbound Delivery business object triggers a Notify of Outbound Delivery for Output to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer outbound process agent or Output Delivery Note to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer asynchronous outbound process agent and or a Request Invoicing from Outbound Delivery to Customer Invoice Processing asynchronous outbound process agent . The Notify of Outbound Delivery to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Outbound Delivery operation in a Delivery Notification Out interface to send a dispatched delivery notification to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component . Output Delivery Note to Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer asynchronous outbound process agent invokes an Output Delivery Note operation in a Delivery Note Out interface to send a dispatched delivery notification to the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component . The Request Invoicing from Outbound Delivery to Customer Invoice Processing asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Request Invoicing operation in a Request Invoicing Out interface to send a request of invoicing of service contract from the Customer Invoicing Processing process component .

The Confirmed Outbound Delivery business object is a confirmation from the product recipient that a certain composition of goods has actually been received. The Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component sends an update to a Maintain Received Outbound Delivery operation included in a Delivery Notification In interface . After receiving a delivery fulfillment request from the Inbound Delivery Processing at Customer process component the Maintain Received Outbound Delivery operation then triggers a Maintain Received Outbound Delivery asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Confirmed Outbound Delivery business object .

The Logistics Area and Storage Management process component includes the Logistics Area business object the Logistics Source and Destination Determination Rule business object the Storage Behavior Method business object and the Storage Control business object . The Logistics Area business object is a freely definable area within a location providing detailed physical and operational information required for storage and production. Logistics areas can be arranged in a hierarchy according to physical aspects or logistical functions. The Logistics Source and Destination Determination Rule business object is a rule for identifying the source storage location for inventory retrieval or the destination storage location for inventory placement. The Storage Behavior Method business object is a set of rules that defines the manner in which a storage location is managed. The Storage Control business object is a specification of inventory items constraints and inventory items rules applied in a storage location such as logistics area or resource as well as requirements for actions i.e. replenishment or cleanup.

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes the Inventory business object and the Identified Logistic Unit business object . The Inventory business object is a document showing quantity of the materials in a location including the material reservations at the location. The Identified Logistic Unit business object represents a physical unit existing exactly once in the real world which is identifiable for logistic purposes. The Identified Logistic Unit business object describes the logistics and physical aspects of a product or package.

In the depicted example the Inventory Processing process component includes a Notify of Inventory Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching asynchronous outbound process agent . The Notify of Inventory Reconciliation from Inventory to Supply and Demand Matching asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify Planning of Inventory Reconciliation operation in an Inventory Reconciliation Out interface to send an inventory reconciliation to the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

The Inventory Processing process component also includes a Notify of Inventory Report from Inventory to Accounting outbound process agent . The Notify of Inventory Report from Inventory to Accounting outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Report operation included in an Inventory Report Accounting Out interface to send an inventory report to the Accounting process component .

As shown in the Inventory Processing process component includes the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object . The Goods and Activity Confirmation business object contains all actual data reflecting an ad hoc executed work e.g. scrapping goods issue for account assignment change of stock category . The execution of work may not be pre planned based on a production or site logistics order.

The Service Confirmation Processing process component or Customer Invoice Processing process agent creates the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object using a Create Goods and Activity Confirmation operation in an Inventory Changing In interface . The Create Goods and Activity Confirmation operation uses a Maintain Goods and Activity Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to create the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object .

The Service Confirmation Processing process component or Customer Invoice Processing process agent can also cancel the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object using a Cancel Goods and Activity Confirmation operation in an Inventory Changing In interface . The Cancel Goods and Activity Confirmation operation uses a Maintain Goods and Activity Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to cancel the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object .

The Data Migration System process component uses a Replicate Goods and Activity Confirmation operation in a Goods and Activity Confirmation Replication In interface to replicate the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object for migration. The Replicate Goods and Activity Confirmation operation uses a Replicate Goods and Activity Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to replicate the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object .

An update to the Goods and Activity Confirmation business object triggers a Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent a Notify of Inventory Change from Confirmation to Supply and Demand Matching outbound process agent and a Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Customer Project Invoice Preparation outbound process agent .

The Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Accounting outbound process agent can invoke either a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation or a Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation both included in an Inventory and Activity Accounting Out interface . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation operation is invoked then an inventory change accounting notification is sent to the Accounting process component . If the Notify of Inventory Change and Activity Confirmation Cancellation operation is invoked then an inventory change accounting cancellation message is sent to the Accounting process component .

The Notify of Inventory Change from Confirmation to Supply and Demand Matching asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Inventory Change operation in an Inventory Chancing Out interface . The Notify of Inventory Change operation sends an inventory change planning notification to the Supply and Demand Matching process component .

The Notify of Inventory Change from Goods and Activity Confirmation to Customer Project Invoice Preparation outbound process agent invokes a Notify of Project Expense operation in a Project Expense Notification Out interface . The Notify of Project Expense operation sends a project expense notification to the Customer Project Invoice Preparation process component . is a block diagram of a Physical Inventory Processing process component . The Physical Inventory Processing process component manages the process for preparing and executing a physical inventory count from preparation through actual counting and gathering of count results to approval of the results.

A Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component which is external to the process component is included for convenience in describing this process component. The Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component manages financial accounting master data that is used both for accounting and costing purposes. While the external software can be implemented as such a process component this is not required.

The Physical Inventory Processing process component includes the Physical Inventory Task business object and the Physical Inventory Count business object .

The Physical Inventory Task business object is a task for executing a count or count approval activity within a site. It represents a piece of work to be performed by a person or an automated system. An update to the Physical Inventory Task business object triggers a Request Physical Inventory Task Execution for Output asynchronous outbound process agent . The Request Physical Inventory Task Execution for Output outbound process agent invokes a Request Physical Inventory Task Execution operation in a Physical Inventory Task Output Out interface to request an execution of a physical inventory task.

The Physical Inventory Count business object includes instructions on how to execute and approve a physical inventory count of materials and packages. A physical inventory count can include the results of the physical inventory and any differences between this physical inventory and the book inventory. An update in the Physical Inventory Count business object causes a Synchronous Request Product Valuation from Physical Inventory Count to Financial Account synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Production Valuation operation to send a product and resource valuation query to the Financial Accounting Master Data Management process component . The operation is included in a Product and Resource Valuation Out interface .

As shown in the Location Data Management process component includes the Location business object the Transportation Zone business object the Transportation Lane business object and the Supply Planning Area business object . The Location business object represents a geographical place. The Transportation Zone business object represents a zone containing geographical locations that may be considered collectively for modeling or planning transportation routes or transportations. The Transportation Lane business object represents a relationship between two locations or transportation zones that specifies which materials can be transported between the locations or transportation zones and which means of transport can be used.

The Supply Planning Area business object groups requirements stocks and other requirements coverage elements so that they can all be taken into account in a net requirements calculation for supply planning. The goal is to provide a separate allocation of products and to ensure the availability of products on time for a supply planning area. Requirements stocks and other requirements coverage elements are assigned to exactly one supply planning area. In that way a systematic and specific supply planning for products within a supply planning area is enabled. In addition every site can have a supply planning area. Introducing additional supply planning areas helps to separate requirements stocks and other requirements coverage elements of one site. The creation of additional supply planning areas is necessary only if planning on a site level is not accurate enough. Objects that arrive without a fixed assignment to a supply planning area can be assigned automatically to the supply planning area that represents the site or rules can be evaluated to assign them to supply planning areas.

The Installed Base business object represents a container that holds structured information of business components and their compositions as well as their business features. Installed Base Components carry properties of business objects e.g. Material or Individual Material which have been assigned to an Installed Base. The Installed Base business object can be multi level structured be time dependent and or include descriptive information about their corresponding business component. Some exemplary content of the Installed Base business object may be an address and or application specific extensions.

The Installation Point business object can describe a physical or logical location at which a business object for example software or a material is installed during a certain period of time. An installation point may include descriptive information about its installed object including the quantity of materials used and further can be structured in a hierarchical relationship with other installation points.

The Installed Base Data Management process component uses a Replicate Installation Point operation included in an Installation Point Replication In interface to replicate the Installation Point business object . The Replicate Installation Point operation uses a Replicate Installation Point process agent to replicate the Installation Point business object . The Installed Base Data Management process component uses a Replicate Installed Base operation included in an Installed Base Replication In interface to replicate the Installed Base business object . The Replicate Installed Base operation uses a Replicate Installed Base process agent to replicate the Installed Base business object .

The Sourcing List business object represents a sorted list of procurement possibilities. The list can be used for a source of supply determination. The list can include information as to sources of supply means of transport and supply quota arrangements.

The Supply Quota Arrangement business object represents a distribution of material requirements or issues to different sources of supply business partners or internal organizational unit.

The Source of Supply business object describes a logical link between a possible source of products and a possible target.

The Sourcing Allocation business object is an allocation of a product quantity to a source of supply or a supply quota arrangement item that has to be procured or produced.

The Released Execution Production Model business object is a released version of a production model that includes production bill of operations and production bill of material data required for the execution of a production process.

The Released Planning Production Model business object is a released version of a production model that includes the production bill of operations and production bill of material data required for the planning of a production process.

The Production Bill of Material business object is a complete and structured list that defines and describes the components that are required in the production of a material or family of similar materials.

The Production Model business object is a released version of a production model that contains all the production bill of operations and production bill of material data required for the planning of a production process.

The Production Segment business object is a part of a production process in a production center specified by a network of operations and assigned materials for the production of a material.

The Production Bill of Operations business object is a description of a production process for manufacturing a product. For example the Production Bill of Operation business object can include processing or transformation steps that have to be executed. Additionally the Production Bill of Operation business object can also specify the resources to be used with technical specifications such as the standard times capacity requirements and work instructions.

As shown in the External Production Model Processing process component creates the Released Execution Production Model business object using a Create Released Execution Production Model operation included in a Released Execution Production Model Transmission Received In interface . The Create Released Execution Production Model operation uses a Maintain Released Execution Production Model inbound process agent to create the Released Execution Production Model business object . The External Production Model Processing process component can also cancel the Released Execution Production Model business object using a Cancel Released Execution Production Model operation included in the Released Execution Production Model Transmission Received In interface . The Cancel Released Execution Production Model operation also uses the Maintain Released Execution Production Model inbound process agent to cancel the Released Execution Production Model business object .

The External Production Model Processing process component creates the Released Planning Production Model business object using a Create Released Planning Production Model operation included in a Released Planning Production Model Transmission Received In interface . The Create Released Planning Production Model operation uses a Maintain Released Planning Production Model inbound process agent to create the Released Planning Production Model business object .

The External Production Model Processing process component can also cancel the Released Planning Production Model business object using a Cancel Released Planning Production Model operation included in the Released Planning Production Model Transmission Received In interface . The Cancel Released Planning Production Model operation also uses the Maintain Released Planning Production Model inbound process agent to cancel the Released Execution Production Model business object .

The External Production Model Processing process component creates the Production Bill of Material business object using a Create Production Bill of Material operation included in a Production Bill of Material Transmission Received In interface . The Create Production Bill of Material operation uses a Create Production Bill of Material inbound process agent to create the Production Bill of Material business object .

An update to the Released Execution Production Model business object triggers a Confirm Released Execution Production Model Transmission outbound process agent . An update to the Released Planning Production Model business object triggers a Confirm Released Planning Production Model Transmission outbound process agent . An update to the Production Bill of Material business object triggers a Confirm Production Bill of Material Transmission outbound process agent .

The Confirm Released Execution Production Model Transmission outbound process agent invokes a Confirm Released Execution Production Model Transmission operation in a Released Execution Production Model Transmission Receiving Out interface . The Confirm Released Execution Production Model Transmission operation confirms its maintenance success to the External Production Model Processing process component .

The Confirm Released Planning Production Model Transmission outbound process agent invokes a Confirm Released Planning Production Model Transmission operation in a Released Planning Production Model Transmission Receiving Out interface . The Confirm Released Planning Production Model Transmission operation confirms its maintenance success to the External Production Model Processing process component .

The Confirm Production Bill of Material Transmission outbound process agent invokes a Confirm Production Bill of Material Transmission operation in a Production Bill of Material Transmission Receiving Out interface . The Confirm Production Bill of Material Transmission operation confirms its creation success to the External Production Model Processing process component .

As shown in the Data Migration System process component can also create the Production Bill of Material business object for migration using a second Create Production Bill of Material operation included in a Production Bill of Material Migration In interface . The second Create Production Bill of Material operation uses a Create Production Bill of Material Based on Migration inbound process agent to create the Production Bill of Material business object for migration.

The Data Migration System process component can also create the Production Model business object the Production Segment business object and the Production Bill of Operations business object using a Create Production Model for Material Requirements Planning operation included in a Production Model Migration In interface . The Create Production Model for Material Requirements Planning operation uses a Create Production Model Based on Migration inbound process agent to create the Production Model business object the Production Segment business object and the Production Bill of Operations business object for migration.

The Site Logistics Bill of Operations business object is a detailed description of how a product is to be moved packed and otherwise dealt with during site logistics processing. For example the Site Logistics Bill of Operations business object may include operations with attached execution instructions.

The Site Logistics Process Segment business object is a part of a logistics process specified by a net of operations for packing moving and checking of goods.

The Site Logistics Process Model business object is a model of site logistics process that is specified by a sequence of site logistics process segments.

The Released Site Logistics Process Model business object is a released version of a site logistics process model that includes elements required for defining and describing the execution of a site logistics process.

The Equipment Resource business object can be a machine device tool or a group of identical machines devices or tools that has the capacity to provide services.

The Vehicle Resource business object represents a means of transportation or a group of identical means of transportation that provides capacity to perform transportation services. For example the means of transportation may be indirectly assigned to the vehicle resource e.g. the capacity of a vehicle resource can be provided by several means of transportation .

The Labor Resource business object represents an employee or a group of employees with the same skills and qualifications with the capacity to operate specific devices or to perform specific tasks.

The Resource Group business object represents a grouping of individual resources based on similar physical characteristics identical functional characteristics or because of their usage in the same business area.

The Resource business object represents an asset that contributes to the sourcing production or delivery of a product.

The Resource Operating Time Template business object is a template of an operating time definition that contains all information required to maintain the operating times for multiple resources.

The Material Inspection business object represents a document that describes the execution of an inspection for a particular material and can be used to record this inspection. The Material Inspection Quality Level business object represents the current quality level for an inspection area. This quality level can be determined based on the results of material inspections. The inspection area can consist of any combination of material vendor receiving plant or receiving logistics areas. The Material Inspection Sample business object represents a sample for an examination in the context of a material inspection. The sample is the subject of examination for inspection procedures. A sample can be taken from a material independently of a material inspection and if necessary it can later be assigned to a material inspection.

The Logistics Task Folder business object represents a folder for storing and grouping logistics tasks according to business criteria. The logistics task folder includes details about the processors registered at the folder. The Logistics Task View business object represents a view of logistics tasks providing detailed information to support a worker in selecting and processing a logistics task.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as illustrating preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

