---

title: Systems and methods for call scheduling
abstract: A calendar may be provided to a user via a computing device and may provide a schedule of availability of one or more advisors for a call with the user. The user may schedule a call with a particular advisor or an advisor having expertise in a particular subject area, such as life insurance, annuities, savings accounts, credit cards, financial and retirement planning, etc. When the user requests a call with an advisor in a particular subject area, the calendar may show a composite of availabilities of the various advisors having expertise in a particular subject area or are associated with a particular subject area group. The user may schedule a call, modify or cancel an existing scheduled call, and provide information pertaining to a call request or scheduled call, for example, via the user computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08243719&OS=08243719&RS=08243719
owner: United States Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08243719
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080617
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 490 filed Oct. 2 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 509 filed Oct. 2 2008 filed as divisional applications of the instant application the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety.

When a user calls an institution to speak with a service advisor many times the user may have to wait on a queue to speak with the service advisor. The user may decide not to wait and hang up. In this manner the user may delay or never speak with the service advisor which may cost the institution good will and or a transaction of products or services with the user.

In order to schedule a call with a service advisor a user must call into an institution and speak with a representative and have the representative determine available times for the service advisor and schedule a call at an available time for the user and the service advisor. This often is a time consuming and frustrating experience for the user. A user is not well served if they have difficulty speaking with an institution s service advisor.

A calendar may be provided to a user via a computing device and may provide a schedule of availability of one or more advisors for a call with the user. The user may schedule a call with a particular advisor or an advisor having expertise in a particular subject area such as life insurance annuities savings accounts credit cards financial and retirement planning etc. Each advisor may be associated with one or more subject areas.

In an implementation when the user requests a call with an advisor in a particular subject area the calendar may show a composite of availabilities of the specific and or various advisors having expertise in the particular subject area or are associated with the particular subject area group.

In an implementation the user may schedule a call modify or cancel an existing scheduled call and provide information pertaining to a call request or scheduled call for example via the user computing device. The user may block a specific time slot on the calendar for a call with an advisor. The time slots may be in particular increments of time such as 15 minutes 30 minutes 60 minutes for example. The increments of time in the time slots provided on the calendar may be based on the subject area of the call.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network. It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like. The network also may connect entities advisors and described further herein to the institution system via their associated advisor computing devices and respectively. An example advisor computing device is described with respect to .

The calendar that may be provided to the user may provide a schedule of availability of one or more advisors for a call with the user . The user may request to speak with a particular advisor or an advisor having expertise in a particular subject area such as life insurance annuities savings accounts credit cards financial and retirement planning etc. Each advisor may be associated with one or more subject areas. When the user requests a call with an advisor in a particular subject area the calendar may show a composite of availabilities of the various advisors having expertise in a particular subject area or are associated with the particular subject area group of advisors. An example calendar is described with respect to . Although only two advisors are shown in it is contemplated that any number of advisors and associated advisor computing devices may be in communication with or otherwise associated with the institution system and may be scheduled for a call with the user .

The call scheduling engine may analyze process and store the data from the user and the advisors in one or more data sources . The data may also be stored in other storage perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage . The call scheduling engine may use the data to generate the calendar and schedule a call. Data that may be stored may include personal data about the user contact data for the user schedule data for the user user account data and schedule data for the advisors . Data that may be stored may also include data pertaining to a scheduled call such as date and time of call subject area of the call comments that the user may have provided regarding the call contact information for the user reminder information for the user and the advisor who is scheduled to participate in the call additional persons who may attend the call and their contact information etc. as described further herein.

In an implementation scheduled call data may be stored and may include for example an identifier subject area e.g. a discussion topic date and time of scheduled call comments provided by the user when they scheduled the call the type s and frequency of reminder s requested by the user e.g. email phone etc. and 24 hours prior to the scheduled call 30 minutes prior to the scheduled call etc. where the reminder should be sent e.g. primary phone number primary email address etc. which advisor will handle the call the phone number the user wants to be called at the user s time zone etc. Additional data that may be stored include additional persons who may participate on the scheduled call their relationship to the user their phone numbers etc.

The call scheduling engine may include a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine a calendar generator and a data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the call scheduling engine . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system .

In an implementation the user may use the user interface module for example to schedule a call modify or cancel an existing scheduled call and to provide information pertaining to a call request or scheduled call for example via the user computing device . The user may block a specific time slot on the calendar for a call with an advisor. The time slots may be in particular increments of time such as 15 minutes 30 minutes 60 minutes etc. for example. Any increment s of time may be provided. The increments of time provided on the calendar may be based on the subject area of the call e.g. a calendar for a call on financial planning may be provided in 60 minute increments a calendar for a call on life insurance may be provided in 30 minute increments etc. .

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The integration and aggregation engine provides the call scheduling engine the ability to retrieve data from data source s storage and other storage internal and or external to the institution system in an implementation via the data source access engine . The integration and aggregation engine may also receive data provided by the user via the user computing device and may receive data provided by an advisor via an advisor computing device. The data may be received via the user interface module in an implementation. The retrieved and or received data may be associated with the user and one or more advisors and may be used to generate the calendar and schedule a call.

The integration and aggregation engine may provide data to the calendar generator . The calendar generator may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to analyze user and advisor data and generate a calendar . In an implementation the calendar generator aggregates multiple advisors calendars and availability to show total availability of at least one of the advisors e.g. for a subject area for a particular range of times and or dates etc. In another implementation the integration and aggregation engine may aggregate multiple advisors calendars. The calendar generator may use input from the user received via the user interface module for example and information known about the user received by the data source access engine for example to determine which advisor or advisors availability to request from the integration and aggregation engine .

In an implementation data for the calendar may be integrated into a single unified presentation which may then be sent to the user interface module for presentation to the user . Through this mechanism the user may quickly see the available time slots to schedule a call with a particular advisor and or an advisor related to a particular subject area. Thus in an implementation the calendar may be provided online e.g. via the website to the user and the user may select a time slot for a scheduled call. The user may interact with the calendar and change inputs. At the user selected date and time an advisor calls the user .

In an implementation an advisor may change their availability by accessing the calendar associated with them using their advisor computing device. The advisor may change available time slots to unavailable for example. In an implementation calendars or information pertaining to calendars for advisors and or advisor groups related to subject areas may be provided to an administrator or management so that the administrator or management may determine if enough advisors are available to speak with users in a particular subject area at a particular time.

The user may interface with the institution system via the website that may display one or more pages of content to the user on the user computing device . A request from the user may be received at the institution system through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with the call scheduling engine or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion. The request may be processed by the call scheduling engine which then provides the user with a response to the request e.g. in the form of the calendar . Calendars may be generated and exported via the website and calls may be scheduled by selecting time slots on the calendars.

In an implementation only a member or registered user of the institution system may access the calendar . Alternatively any user of the website may access the calendar . In an implementation access may be limited by various restrictions such as a pilot group products age etc. to allow only a target audience to access the calendar .

The user computing device may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the call scheduling engine and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a request to schedule a call with an advisor. A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to user and through the graphical user interface provide the user with the ability to interact with and manipulate the data and calendar s provided by the institution system .

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the call scheduling engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the call scheduling engine . Those instructions may cause the call scheduling engine to access data source s and storage .

As mentioned above the call scheduling engine may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of the scheduled call data and calendar can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user computing device may allow a user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as data source s for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating web page content for display and receiving requests and instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

The calendar may display available time slots that a call may be scheduled with a particular advisor or a member of an advisor group associated with a particular subject area. The user may click on or otherwise select an available time slot . A call may then be scheduled in the selected available time slot. The selected time slot for the particular advisor may then be marked as no longer available e.g. to other users on the calendar .

In an implementation the calendar may be generated based on a particular advisor s availability and or calendar or may be a composite of availabilities of members of an advisor group associated with the subject area of the call that is being scheduled. In a composite implementation as long as any member of the advisor group is available during a time slot that time slot is displayed as available and may be selected by a user for a scheduled call. In an implementation the calendar for the advisor most skilled in the subject area may be presented to the user.

In an implementation the user s calendar e.g. from a service such as Yahoo Google etc. or from an application such as Microsoft Outlook may be synchronized with the calendar of a particular advisor or advisor group. The synchronized calendar may be presented to the user and may display time slots when the user and the advisor or a member of the advisor group are both available. After the user selects a time slot for a scheduled call both the user s calendar and the advisor s calendar may be updated with the scheduled call information. In an implementation an advisor may use the calendar to schedule a call with a user. In an implementation an advisor s calendar may be synchronized with the calendar of another advisor or advisor group.

At operation available time slots for a given date range and subject area and or advisor or advisor group are retrieved. If the user chooses to speak with any member of an advisor group for a selected subject area scheduling data associated with each advisor that can handle the given subject area are retrieved and the availability is given in time slots that match the estimated duration of the call. All available time slots for a call to be scheduled that fall within the date range may be provided.

At operation a calendar for an advisor and or advisor group is generated and provided to the user. The available time slots for a particular advisor and for a particular topic may be presented.

Thus the user may schedule a call online with an individual advisor e.g. certified financial planner select relationship manager etc. or an advisor group e.g. retirement advisors annuities investment planning retirement planning 401k rollover long term care etc. based on availability of the advisor or group. When the availability for a time slot is used up that time slot may be removed. A calendar generator provides the user with a calendar to see advisor availability for a week in one view for example although which calendar is presented to the user may be determined in a formula driven way based on a combination of the user s relationship with the institution and the subject area the user wants to discuss.

In an implementation an immediate view of the advisors schedules based on the user s time zone may be provided giving the user the feeling of more control over their relationship with the institution the ability to conduct transactions quickly and efficiently and self service. When a user is scheduling with an advisor group the institution system may continually optimize available call offerings throughout the day to provide available time slots for calls between the user and an advisor sooner.

The user may select a time slot corresponding to a time and date on the calendar at operation . The selection may be made by clicking on or highlighting the time slot in an implementation. At operation the user may provide contact information e.g. the phone number to be called at and may note that one or more additional persons e.g. their spouse their children the user s financial planner other advisors etc. are to be included on call and may provide the additional person s names and contact information. The user may also provide comments that they would like the advisor to consider e.g. ahead of the scheduled call. The user may also provide information pertaining to any reminders they would like to receive about the scheduled call.

At operation the time slot may blocked off on the calendar for the advisor who will be scheduled to make the call to the user. The availability may also be removed from the calendar that may be presented to subsequent users. At operation if the additional person s scheduled for the call are internal to or associated with the institution they may be advised e.g. they may be sent notification and reminders and their calendar s may be updated. In an implementation at operation the user s calendar may be updated based on the user s selection of scheduled call time.

At operation the user may be provided with information and or a questionnaire to review and or fill out and return ahead of call. The user may be provided with information pertaining to the call such as a list of documents the user needs for the call an online questionnaire e.g. via a link to a website for the user to fill out ahead of the call reference documents the user should read ahead of the call etc. At operation at the scheduled date and time the advisor may initiate the call to the user.

At operation at one or more predetermined times prior to the scheduled call a reminder may be generated and sent to the user regarding the previously provided request for action and or information. In an implementation the reminder may be sent via one or more of email telephone facsimile text message website or via a link to a website using previously stored contact or address information. The predetermined times may be determined by the institution system and may be a predetermined number of minutes hours days etc. prior to the scheduled call. In an implementation when scheduling the call the user may select the predetermined times for the action and or information reminder s and may also select the delivery technique s for the reminder s as well as provide their contact or address information.

In an implementation the institution system may check to determine whether the user has provided the requested information prior to sending a reminder. In an implementation based on the subject area to be discussed at the call the institution system may determine whether the user has filled out or otherwise responded to a questionnaire previously provided to the user. If not a reminder may be sent to the user. If the user has responded to the questionnaire then a reminder may not be sent.

At operation at one or more predetermined times prior to the scheduled call a reminder may be generated and sent to the user regarding the scheduled call reminding the user of the date and time of the call for example as well as the subject area. In an implementation the user may have previously selected how they want to be reminded of the scheduled call e.g. one or more of email telephone facsimile text message website or via a link to a website etc. and may have provided contact or address information. The user may also have selected when the reminder is to be delivered e.g. number of minutes hours days etc. prior to the call and how often the reminder is to be delivered.

Responsive to the reminder in an implementation the user may revise the scheduled call information such as changing the date and time of the scheduled call cancelling the call etc. The ability to revise the scheduled call information may be provided with the reminder such as via a link to a website that the user may select. The user may then revise the scheduled call information on the website that is linked to. An implementation of revising scheduled call information is described with respect to the method of .

At operation the advisor may be sent a reminder about the scheduled call. The information may include the user s name and telephone number the subject area any user provided comments or information etc. The reminder to the advisor may be provided a predetermined number of times prior to the scheduled call and may be provided at predetermined times prior to the scheduled call.

If the user wishes to cancel the call the user may select to cancel the scheduled call at operation . When a scheduled call is canceled the availability of the advisor who was to make the scheduled call is freed up and the scheduled call details are deleted along with any calendar entries and any reminders.

Alternatively at operation the user may choose to revise an existing scheduled call e.g. via an icon a button pull down menu etc. for a user to modify the scheduled call with the advisor. A user may schedule multiple calls and revise one or more of the calls. If the user selects to revise the date and or time of the scheduled call at operation a calendar is generated and provided to the user. At operation the user may select another time and date for the call by selecting an available time slot on the calendar similar to that described above with respect to the operation of . When a scheduled call is changed the data pertaining to the call may be changed along with the persons who are scheduled to be on the call.

At operation the previously scheduled call is canceled. Processing continues at operation of . In an implementation the data previously provided by the user pertaining to the scheduled call may be stored and presented to the user for review and possible revision.

Alternatively the user may select to change data pertaining to the call e.g. contact information or other information instead of the date and time of the scheduled call. At operation the previously stored information pertaining to the call is retrieved and provided to the user. The user may select and edit the information e.g. address or contact information comments reminder details etc. at operation . The information may be stored at operation . In an implementation processing may continue at operation .

In an implementation a user may choose to be called back within a certain period of time e.g. 24 hours 48 hours etc. instead of selecting a specific appointment time.

At operation in an implementation the user may select a flex session such as by selecting an appropriate button tab icon etc. on a website. At operation the user may be prompted to select a subject area a particular advisor or an advisor group and or a time period for a call from a particular advisor or a member of the advisor group.

In an implementation the user may select a subject area and a time period or range of times and the institution system may provide a listing of relevant advisors that are available for the call within that time period. The user may then select an advisor with which they would like to speak. Alternatively or additionally the user may select an advisor and may be apprised of when that advisor is available to speak e.g. via a calendar such as a calendar described with respect to . The user may then select a time slot when the advisor is available according to the calendar by clicking on highlighting or otherwise selecting the time slot.

At operation the user makes their selection s and the selection s may be stored by the institution system at operation . At operation a notice may be generated and sent to the advisor who is responsible for making the call to the user within the time period or range of times. In an implementation data pertaining to the call may be provided on the advisor s calendar.

At operation after the time period for the call has elapsed it may be determined whether the call had been made to the user e.g. by checking a call log or following up with the user. If the call had been made to the user within the time period processing may end otherwise the advisor and or a supervisor may be notified at operation .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

