---

title: Regulating broadcast overhead messages within a wireless communications network
abstract: Aspects of regulating broadcast overhead messages within a wireless communications network are disclosed. In an example, an access network periodically sends a message advertising an announced multicast session on each of a plurality of carriers, the message indicating that the announced multicast session is being carried on a target carrier among the plurality of carriers. The access network determines whether to cease transmission of the periodic message within each non-target carrier based on a number of times the periodic message has been sent in each of the plurality of carriers, and ceases transmission of the periodic message within each non-target carrier based on the determining step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08625501&OS=08625501&RS=08625501
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08625501
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080918
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 809 entitled METHODS OF REGULATING BROADCAST OVERHEAD MESSAGES WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Sep. 24 2007 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to methods of regulating broadcast overhead messages within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to regulating broadcast overhead messages within a wireless communications network. In an example an access network periodically sends a message e.g. a broadcast overhead message advertising an announced multicast session on each of a plurality of carriers the message indicating that the announced multicast session is being carried on a target carrier among the plurality of carriers. The access network determining whether to cease transmission of the periodic message within each non target carrier based on a number of times the periodic message has been sent in each of the plurality of carriers and ceases transmission of the periodic message within each non target carrier based on the determining step. An access terminal e.g. missing the initial message s determines that the access network has ceased transmission on a carrier to which the access terminal is currently tuned of the periodic message. The access terminal sends to the access network a request for the access network to retransmit the periodic message and receives a re transmission of the periodic message from the access network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In conventional wireless communication systems such as code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication systems the total amount of available bandwidth is divided into different carriers. For example each carrier can be allocated the same amount of bandwidth although this is not necessarily the case . Generally the RAN seeks to distribute load substantially evenly across each of the carriers to avoid an overload condition on any particular carrier.

As discussed in the Background section multicasts or multicast sessions permit transmission of the same message or set of messages to a relatively large number of access terminals or multicast group members. Accordingly it will be appreciated that carrying multicast messages for a particular multicast session on more than one of the available carriers in a particular sector is redundant and wastes precious bandwidth within the wireless communication system. As such it is well known to transmit the multicast messages for a particular multicast session on a single carrier within each sector and have access terminals desiring to participate in the multicast session switch to that carrier.

In the application server or push to talk PTT server sends an announce message announcing a PTT session to the RAN which transmits the announce message in a plurality of sectors of the wireless communication system and on each available carrier within each sector. Thus the announce message is transmitted on each of carriers A B and C to AT A.

In assume that AT A is interested in participating in the PTT session e.g. AT A wants to speak to the multicast group for the announced PTT session AT A wants to listen watch the announced PTT session etc. . Thus in AT A attempts to register to the announced PTT session by sending a registration message such as a BCMCSFlowRegistration message as defined by 1x EV DO standards to the RAN . In the RAN receives the BCMCSFlowRegistration message from AT A and sends a broadcast overhead message BOM on each of carriers A B and C advertising the announced PTT session on a downlink control channel in one or more slots of the downlink control channel that are reserved for BOMs. BOMs are well known in the art and defined by 1x EV DO standards. BOMs include a listing of one or more broadcast and multicast service BCMCS flow identifiers IDs with instructions regarding how an access terminal can tune to the advertised BCMCS flow on a downlink broadcast channel. For example BOMs sent in carriers other than the carrier on which the multicast session is being supported non target carriers e.g. carriers A and B inform ATs that the advertised BCMCS flow is carried on another carrier target carrier e.g. carrier C and the BOM sent in the target carrier indicates an interlace multiplex pair of the downlink broadcast channel that includes the multicast session messaging within that carrier. Thus if an AT is monitoring a non target carrier the AT must i decode the BOM on the non target carrier ii tune to the indicated target carrier iii decode the BOM on the target carrier and iv decode downlink transmissions in the indicated IM pair as will be described below in greater detail.

Accordingly in assume that the BOM advertising the BCMCSFlowID for the announced PTT session indicates that the announced PTT session is being carried on carrier C. Thus AT A either i tunes to carrier C directly ii or if AT A has an active traffic channel on a carrier other than carrier C AT A determines whether to drop the active traffic channel in order to tune to carrier C for the announced PTT session. For convenience of explanation assume that AT A tunes to carrier C directly in .

In the RAN re sends at a next reserved BOM slot the BOMs in carriers A and B e.g. including instructions to tune to carrier C to join the multicast session and carrier C e.g. including IM pair information for monitoring multicast communications in carrier C .

In the RAN sends multicast messages associated with the announced PTT session on carrier C e.g. on a downlink broadcast channel on the indicated IM pair and AT A begins to monitor the PTT session . The BOMs advertising the BCMCSFlowID for the announce PTT session are configured to be sent at a periodic interval BOM interval during the PTT session at the reserved BOM slot s of the downlink control channel on each available carrier i.e. carriers A B and C . Accordingly the BOM advertising the announced PTT session is re sent in and so on throughout the given multicast session on each available carrier.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art sending the BOM for the announced PTT session on carriers other than the carrier on which the given multicast session or PTT session is being hosted target carrier becomes less and less beneficial with continued iterations of BOM transmissions because most ATs have already tuned to the target carrier or else have decided to ignore the announced PTT session altogether. Thus after a given number of intervals BOMs sent on carriers other than the target carrier do not typically result in many ATs switching to the target carrier and as such these BOMs waste precious system resources on the downlink control channel and also increase the level of interference in the wireless communication system.

As discussed above with respect to sending the BOM repeatedly on non target carriers throughout the duration of a PTT session can waste precious system resources on the downlink control channel and also increase the level of interference in the wireless communication system. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are directed to regulating the BOM on non target carriers as will now be described in greater detail with respect to .

In the application server or push to talk PTT server sends an announce message announcing a PTT session to the RAN which transmits the announce message in a plurality of sectors of the wireless communication system and on each available carrier within each sector. Thus the announce message is transmitted on each of carriers A B and C to AT A.

In assume that AT A is interested in participating in the PTT session e.g. AT A wants to speak to the multicast group for the announced PTT session AT A wants to listen watch the announced PTT session etc. . Thus in AT A attempts to register to the announced PTT session by sending a registration message such as a BCMCSFlowRegistration message as defined by 1 EV DO standards to the RAN . In the RAN receives the BCMCSFlowRegistration message from AT A and sends a broadcast overhead message BOM on each of carriers A B and C advertising the announced PTT session on a downlink control channel in one or more slots of the downlink control channel that are reserved for BOMs. As discussed above BOMs are well known in the art and defined by 1 EV DO standards. BOMs include a listing of one or more broadcast and multicast service BCMCS flow identifiers IDs with instructions regarding how an access terminal can tune to the advertised BCMCS flow.

In assume that the BOMs advertising the BCMCSFlowID for the announced PTT session in non target carriers i.e. carriers A and B indicates that the announced PTT session is being carried on carrier C and the BOM sent in the target carrier i.e. carrier C includes an IM pair for tuning to the multicast session within that carrier. Thus AT A either i tunes to carrier C ii or if AT A has an active traffic channel on a carrier other than carrier C AT A determines whether to risk dropping the active traffic channel in order to tune to carrier C for the announced PTT session or iii is already tuned to carrier C and simply begins monitoring the multicast session on the indicated IM pair. For convenience of explanation assume that AT A tunes to carrier C in .

In the RAN determines whether the number of times the BOM for the announced PTT session has been sent exceeds a BOM threshold. For example the BOM threshold may be determined as a tradeoff between i the number of new users expected to switch to carrier C to participate in the announced PTT session after a given number of iterations of BOM transmissions on multiple carriers versus ii the amount of interference and or the amount of bandwidth lost on the downlink control channel due to the BOMs sent in non target carriers. For example the BOM threshold can be equal to 2 3 etc. For example the BOM threshold can be selected by a system designer to satisfy a given performance criteria such as ensuring that a given percentage e.g. 99 of multicast group members that are i capable of receiving the BOM and ii desiring to tune to the PTT session tune to the carrier hosting the PTT session i.e. carrier C .

In assume that the RAN determines that the BOM threshold has not been exceeded and the process advances to . As noted above BOMs advertising the BCMCSFlowID for the announce PTT session are configured to be sent at a periodic interval BOM interval during the PTT session at the reserved BOM slot s of the downlink control channel. Accordingly the BOM is sent again on each of carriers A B and C in . Thus because AT A has now tuned to carrier C AT A receives the BOM with the IM pair for the multicast session within that carrier.

As discussed above for an AT that is tuned to a non target carrier two BOMs may be required before the AT can monitor the multicast session on the target carrier. A first BOM informs that AT that the multicast session is being carried on another carrier and after tuning to that carrier a second BOM informs that AT with regard to which IM pair the multicast session is being transmitted on in the downlink BCH. Accordingly in an embodiment of the present invention instead of sending the first two BOMs on the periodic reserved BOM slot of the downlink control channel the first two BOMs are sent on the earliest two synchronous and or subsynchronous control channel capsules of the downlink control channel in order to reduce call setup times. As will be appreciated in this example ATs can be configured in order to monitor the downlink control channel for BOMs as soon as the announce message is received and not merely at the reserved BOM slot s of the downlink control channel. A further discussion of ATs being configured to monitor the downlink control slot in a more aggressive manner subsequent to receipt of an announce message is provided within co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 974 829 by Song et al. entitled METHODS OF SUPPORTING A MULTICAST SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Sep. 24 2007 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. However to support legacy ATs that may not necessarily be configured in this manner the RAN can also send at least two BOMs in the conventional BOM slots of the downlink control channel. These considerations can be taken into account when determining the BOM threshold for example.

In the RAN sends multicast messages associated with the announced PTT session on carrier C at the indicated IM pair of the downlink broadcast channel and AT A begins to monitor the PTT session .

While not shown explicitly within each time the BOM is sent on each carrier e.g. during call set up the RAN increments a counter that keeps track of the number of times the BOM has been sent on each carrier. Thus the counter is incremented after . In the RAN again determines whether the number of times the BOM for the announced PTT session has been sent i.e. the value of the counter exceeds a BOM threshold. Here assume that the RAN determines that the BOM threshold is exceeded by the counter value.

Accordingly in the RAN determines to stop sending the BOM on each available carrier at the periodic BOM intervals and instead limits the periodic BOM transmissions to the target carrier i.e. carrier C . Thus the BOM is sent on carrier C exclusively in and so on for the remainder of the PTT session.

Alternatively while not illustrated explicitly within subsequent to the BOM need not cease transmission on non target carriers altogether but rather can be configured to be transmitted on non target carriers less frequently than on the target carrier. Thus in this alternative example ATs tuned to non target carriers are granted at least one additional chance to tune to the announced PTT session while system interference and or downlink control channel usage is still reduced as compared to the conventional art.

In another example instead of simply abandoning ATs that miss the BOMs before the BOM threshold is exceeded or relying upon an infrequently transmitted BOM after the BOM threshold is exceeded protocols may be provided wherein non target carrier BOMs can be specially requested by one or more ATs in non target carriers as will now be described in greater detail with respect to .

Accordingly illustrates a continuation of the process of . In assume that AT B is currently tuned to a non target carrier such as carrier B and that AT B missed the PTT call announcement and BOMs advertising the BCMCS flow associated with the PTT session. It is assumed that AT B wants to initiate the PTT session which is currently in progress. Thus in AT B sends a call request associated with the multicast session to the RAN and the RAN sends a call status message to AT B e.g. indicating that the given multicast session is already in session . Based on the call status message AT B determines that it is a late joiner to the announced multicast session . In other words AT B determines that any BOMs for the multicast session have already been sent. In AT B sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN in order to prompt the RAN to send another BOM in carrier B that will inform AT B as to which carrier is hosting the given multicast session. In the RAN responds to the BCMCSFlowRegistration message with another BOM in carrier B that indicates to AT B to tune to carrier C in order to participate in the multicast session. In an example the BOM sent by the RAN in can be sent on an earlier available synchronous control channel capsule an earlier available subsynchronous control channel capsule and or an earliest available asynchronous control channel capsule.

Thus AT B tunes to carrier C and receives a subsequent BOM indicating an IM pair carrying multicast messages for the active multicast session begins monitoring the multicast session and continues to monitor the multicast session while receiving subsequent BOMs on the BOM interval in carrier C .

Also while not shown explicitly within the RAN resets the BOM counter i.e. from before sending the BOM in and increments the BOM counter after sending the BOM in . Next in the RAN compares the BOM counter to the BOM threshold to determine whether the BOM threshold is exceeded. For convenience of explanation assume the BOM counter is determined to exceed the BOM threshold in and the RAN stops sending BOMs for the given multicast session on carrier B in .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further aspects of embodiments of the invention can include logical implementations of the functions described herein. Accordingly those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the examples provided herein.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for supporting a multicast session in a wireless communications network comprising program code for receiving from an access terminal a request to register for a given multicast session the access terminal being allocated a traffic channel on a first carrier program code for determining whether the given multicast session is not being carried on the first carrier and program code for transmitting a traffic channel assignment message allocating the access terminal a traffic channel on a second carrier if the determining step determines that the given multicast session is not being carried on the first carrier. Further any of the functions describe herein can be included in as additional code in further embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

