---

title: Solid oxide fuel cell stack assembly and method for fueling
abstract: A method for fueling a solid oxide fuel cell stack is provided. The method includes passing a first portion of hydrocarbon fuel through a catalytic hydrocarbon reformer to generate a first reformate. The first reformate is passed through a hydrocarbon cracker to generate a second reformate such that a portion of any non-reformed hydrocarbon fuel in the first reformate is converted to methane. The second reformate is supplied to the fuel cell stack.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07901820&OS=07901820&RS=07901820
owner: Delphi Technologies, Inc.
number: 07901820
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080404
---
The present application is a Continuation In Part of a pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 231 703 filed Sep. 21 2005 and published Mar. 22 2007 as US Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0065687 A1.

The present invention was supported in part by a U.S. Government contract no. DE FC2602NT41246. The United States Government may have rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to solid oxide fuel cell SOFC systems more particularly to such systems wherein a portion of the anode tail gas is recirculated directly into the reformer and most particularly to a system wherein reformate from a partial oxidation hydrocarbon reformer with unprocessed hydrocarbon fuel is passed through a hydrocarbon cracker ahead of the fuel cell stack to permit internal reforming of small aliphatic residues such as methane within the fuel cell stack.

SOFC systems are well known. An SOFC typically is fueled by reformate gas which is the partially oxidized effluent from a catalytic partial oxidation CPOx hydrocarbon reformer. Reformate typically includes amounts of carbon monoxide CO as fuel in addition to molecular hydrogen H . The CPOx reactions also release heat that serves to maintain the temperature of the reformer. A CPOx reformer is a very simple and easily controlled device with good transient behavior and dynamic range. A known disadvantage of a CPOx reformer is that it has a relatively low fuel processing efficiency that limits overall system efficiency.

To improve stack power density and system efficiency and to reduce carbon precipitation and deposition in the system it is known in the art to recycle a portion of the tail gas from the stack anodes through the reformer. The stack anode tail gas has a large amount of water vapor and COas well as unreacted Hand CO gases. When these gases are fed back to the reformer endothermic steam reforming reactions can occur in the fuel reformer. Stack anode tail gas recycle is known to be enhanced by fuel reformer technology that can sustain its temperature in the presence of endothermic reactions. Such technology may consist of a heat exchanger construction wherein hot combustor effluent passes on one side of the heat exchanger combustor side and a mix of fuel air and recycle gas passes through the other side reforming side . The reforming side is catalytically treated to allow for the preferred reactions to occur. This mechanization yields high fuel processing efficiencies that in turn yield high system efficiencies.

Disadvantages to this approach are complexity and potential durability issues with the heat exchanger reformer device because of the higher temperatures required for endothermic reforming the system complexity required to channel the combustor gases through the reformer and the potential for carbon precipitation in the produced reformate which may have lower water vapor content by volume.

Where natural gas is the fuel steam reforming with added water no recycle is a very common approach. In some cases the natural gas fuel is pre reformed to break down higher hydrocarbons heavier than methane and this high methane mix is fed directly to an SOFC stack. HO is typically added to the reformate to allow steam reforming reactions to occur within the SOFC stack itself. This arrangement is known as Internal Reforming in the art. In this prior art approach the heat required for endothermic reforming to occur is supplied by the electrochemical heat released in the SOFC stack and not by heat exchange with the combustor gases. Internal endothermic reforming within the SOFC stack is very attractive for its high fuel processing efficiencies but in the prior art it requires a supply of external water injection to the system.

There is a limitation however to the range of operation in a system with this fuel processing configuration. The system efficiency is quite high when a fraction or all of the fuel can be reformed internally to the stack. The problem is that the reforming process requires the stack to provide the necessary heat to support the endothermic reactions and it is not capable of providing that heat below a certain system operating power. This means the efficiency of the system when operating at low electric load is that of a CPOx system and reaches the highest system efficiencies only when higher loads can support internal reforming.

What is needed in the art is a system mechanization and algorithm that incorporates the benefits of each prior art system configuration in an architecture that allows for full flexibility in fuel processing incorporating CPOx endothermic and internal reforming depending upon the power load of the fuel cell system.

It is a principal object of the present invention to improve the fuel efficiency of a solid oxide fuel cell stack system over the full range of operating loads.

Briefly described an SOFC stack system in accordance with the invention includes an endothermic reformer and fuel flow arrangement that permits optimized fuel reforming at all power load levels of the fuel cell stack between 0 and 100 .

A portion of the anode tail gas is recycled into a preparatory mixing chamber wherein the tail gas is combined with fresh air and fuel. The mixture is sent to a main reformer that is configured for endothermic reforming. Reformate from the main reformer and during higher load operation unprocessed fuel mixed with reformate is sent through a hydrocarbon cracker that breaks any hydrocarbons in the reformate into methane before the reformate enters the stack. This invention allows for a reforming strategy that includes the following operation or any blend thereof. The first mode is at 0 load and there is no reforming in the stack all reforming is done in the main reformer. The second mode is at 100 load when all of the fuel is internally reformed by the stack and none of the fuel is reformed in the main reformer. At loads between 0 and 100 the reforming is a mixture of CPOx and endothermic reforming in the main reformer and internal reforming within the fuel cell stack. This strategy allows the system to take advantage of the highest fuel processing efficiencies available through the full range of stack operation.

Referring to a first prior art SOFC system comprises an SOFC stack having an anode inlet for reformate from a CPOx reformer an anode tail gas outlet an inlet for heated cathode air from a cathode air heat exchanger and a cathode air outlet . Anode tail gas and spent cathode air are fed to a burner the hot exhaust from which is passed through heat exchanger to heat the incoming cathode air . The residual potential chemical energy Hand CO in the anode tail gas is not recovered as additional electrical output of the stack but instead is partially recovered as heat energy in exchanger .

Referring to a second prior art SOFC system comprises the elements just described for first prior art system . However in addition a first portion of anode tail gas is diverted away from burner to an anode tail gas cooler and thence through an anode tail gas pump which directs cooled portion of the tail gas into an entrance to an air fuel preparation chamber ahead of endothermic reformer . Second portion of anode tail gas is sent to burner as in embodiment and the hot effluent is sent to cathode air heat exchanger via a prior heat exchanger in reformer . Fortified reformate is sent to stack anode inlet . Thus residual hydrocarbons in the anode tail gas are exposed to reforming for a second time and heat is recovered in both the reformer and the cathode air heater. Elevated temperatures in the reformer are necessary to permit endothermic reforming. System is known to improve significantly the fuel efficiency of an SOFC system resulting in an increase in electrical output .

Referring to SOFC system as disclosed in co pending application Ser. No. 11 231 703 is substantially the same as that of prior art embodiment except that anode tail gas from pump is directed via pump to the anode inlet of stack bypassing reformer where the anode tail gas joins with reformate from reformer to form a feed stream . The burner effluent bypasses reformer . Because reformer is a CPOx reformer in addition to the primary independently controlled fuel flow supplying fuel to reformer a secondary independently controlled fuel flow is provided for supplying secondary fuel into anode tail gas portion to optimize the mixture feed stream provided to stack anode inlet . Preferably the tail gas secondary fuel mixture is passed through a clean up catalyst to reduce longer chain hydrocarbons to methane H and CO.

Primary fuel reformer which is a simple and robust CPOx technology reformer supplies between 0 and 100 of the reformate to the SOFC stack with typical values between 30 and 70 . At 100 there is no secondary fuel injection to the recycle feed stream and no internal reforming in the stack 0 internal reforming . At 0 there is no CPOx reformate to the stack and all of the secondary fuel from flow control is internally reformed 100 internal reforming . This blended strategy referred to herein as Light Internal Reforming generally results in a reformate feed stream to the stack that has a high concentration of Hand HO as well as moderate amounts of CO and CO and a small amount 0 30 of methane gas CH . This arrangement allows for endothermic reforming within the stack itself for high fuel processing efficiencies and high electric output . Further this arrangement allows for reduced internal reforming load 

A problem with system is that internal reforming is only available at higher electric loads. Thus system is relatively inefficient under low load conditions. Further the benefits of passing the anode recycle through the reformer as in system are not available. Thus system cannot enjoy use of anode recycle in endothermic reforming at any load condition.

What is needed is a flexible system that allows for endothermic reforming in the main reformer at low load conditions internal reforming in the fuel cell stack at higher load conditions and a hybrid mixture of endothermic and internal reforming at intermediate load conditions.

Referring to a hybrid flexible SOFC system in accordance with the invention comprises most of the elements just described for second prior art system which need not be repeated here. The following elements however are of special interest in system .

First portion of anode tail gas is diverted ahead of burner to anode tail gas cooler and thence through anode tail gas pump which directs cooled portion into an air fuel preparation chamber ahead of endothermic reformer . Second portion of anode tail gas is sent to burner and the hot effluent is sent to cathode air heat exchanger via a heat exchanger in reformer . Fortified reformate including secondary fuel input from is sent to stack anode inlet via a hydrocarbon cracker to ensure that any residual hydrocarbon molecules in reformate are small enough and preferably are only methane to be internally reformed within SOFC stack . Hydrocarbon cracker may be of any type as are well known in the art for breaking long chain aliphatic compounds into short chain aliphatic compounds. Thus under relatively low stack load conditions reformate entering stack has high concentrations of Hand HO moderate amounts of CO and CO and a small amount of methane gas CH whereas under relatively high stack load conditions reformate entering stack has a high concentration of HO relatively little Hand CO and a large amount of methane gas CH .

Reformer may be fueled by a wide range of hydrocarbon fuels including but not limited to gasoline JP 8 diesel LPG and natural gas. Further the addition of hydrocarbon cracker permits operation of stack at any ratio of endothermic reforming to internal reforming between 100 endothermic and 100 internal depending upon load .

In operation controller senses demanded load and commands actuators that control at least air flow and fuel flows with programmed responses to provide the optimal endothermic internal reforming ratio.

While the invention has been described by reference to various specific embodiments it should be understood that numerous changes may be made within the spirit and scope of the inventive concepts described. Accordingly it is intended that the invention not be limited to the described embodiments but will have full scope defined by the language of the following claims.

