---

title: Methods and apparatus for an enhanced media content rating system
abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and computer program products are provided for an improved media content rating system. The rating system herein disclosed is highly-granular in nature, in that, the rating system allows for ratings to be based on the number of times that portions, segments, clips of the media file are played or otherwise executed, as opposed to basing the media content rating solely on the number of times that the media file is played. In this regard, the aspects herein described may further provide for ratings of the portions, segments, clips of the media content as opposed to limiting the rating to a rating for the overall media content file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178632&OS=09178632&RS=09178632
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09178632
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080902
---
The present application for patent is related to the following co pending United States patent applications 

 Access Point for Improved Content Delivery System by Rauber et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 203096 filed concurrently herewith assigned to the same assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein and

 Deployment and Distribution Model for Improved Content Delivery System by Rauber et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 203099 filed concurrently herewith assigned to the same assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein.

The described aspects relate to media content and more particularly to apparatus methods and systems for an improved media content rating system.

Communication devices and more specifically wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones have rapidly gained in popularity over the past decade. These devices are rapidly becoming multifaceted devices capable of providing a wide range of functions. For example a cellular telephone may also embody computing capabilities Internet access electronic mail text messaging GPS mapping digital photographic capability an audio MP3 player video gaming capabilities and the like.

In addition wireless communication devices are increasingly being manufactured with the ability to receive media content such as audio content video content multimedia content or the like. As such the communication devices may be configured to receive one to many transmissions such as broadcast transmissions and or multicast transmissions and or one to one transmissions such as unicast transmissions or the like. An example of a current multicast system is the MediaFLO system available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. The MediaFLO system utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM air interface based technology designed specifically for multicasting a significant volume of rich multimedia content cost effectively to wireless device subscribers.

Additionally as memory capacity on wireless communication devices continues to increase the ability to store a larger volume of media content on the wireless communication device becomes apparent. In this regard when the wireless device possesses the capability to store numerous media content files the user of such a device can enjoy the experience of repeatedly playing listening or otherwise executing a favorite or preferred media content file while the file is stored and accessible on the device. For example an 80 GigaByte GB device can store approximately 10 000 song files approximately 50 full length movies or a combination thereof. Such large storage volumes allow the user to accumulate a library of media content.

Various entities may benefit from knowing what media content a user of wireless device is playing or otherwise executing and equally important a user s preference for a particular media content file i.e. how much a user enjoys a media content file or how they rate the media content file . For example network operators content providers recording labels motion picture studios and the like may benefit from such information. This information provides the entity with insight into the popularity of specific media content and the repeatability in terms of frequency of playing executing. In turn the entities can rely such information to provide future marketing strategies media content pricing and the like.

Currently systems are deployed for rating media content however the systems are limited and do not necessarily provide the entities of interest the degree of information that they desire. In certain known systems the user is relied upon to input ratings for media content. For example a user can record a rating or score for a particular media content file based on their subjective preference for the media content file. This type of system requires the user to take an action beyond just playing or executing the media content in order for a rating to be recorded. Such a system does not provide for comprehensive ratings because a user will typically only provide ratings to a mere portion of the media content files that are played or otherwise executed. Thus any rating results that are subsequently communicated to network entities such as service providers network operators or the like do not provide an accurate picture of the overall user s preference for the media content.

Other rating systems rely solely on the number of times that a media content file is played or otherwise executed as a means of gauging the user s preference for the media content. However this type of rating system is also plagued with inaccuracies. In most instances these types of rating systems will log a play each time a media content file is launched regardless of whether the file is played in its entirety. Thus if the user is experiencing technical difficulties in executing the file causing numerous re launches the rating system will inaccurately inflate the user preference for this file. In the same regard if a user does not view a video file such as a movie in its entirety during a single play but rather views the entire video file over numerous plays e.g. the user watches a movie in fifteen minute segments the rating system will inaccurately inflate the user preference for this file.

Conversely if the rating system is configured to record a play only if the media content is played in its entirety the rating system will not account for instances in which the user desires to only play a portion of a media content file e.g. the user desires to only watch a certain scene in a movie or listen to a certain portion of a song. and therefore the rating system will inaccurately deflate the user preference for this file. Additionally such rating systems only provide for a rating of the overall media content file and do not provide the ability to rate portions of the media file. Thus in the above example in which the user only desires to play a portion of the media content the rating system can not differentiate between a preference to play or otherwise execute the media content in its entirety versus playing or otherwise executing only a portion of the media file.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods apparatus systems and computer program products that provide for an improved media content rating system. The desired content rating system should be automated such that ratings can be provided without any additional user input beyond selecting an executing the media content. Additionally the desired media content rating system should provide for a higher level of granularity than current media content rating systems thereby increasing the accuracy of the rating system. By providing for a rating system with a greater degree of accounting and higher level of accuracy network entities such as service providers content providers and the like can more readily rely on the rating information for marketing sales and or advertising purposes.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are provided for an improved media content rating system. The rating system herein disclosed is highly granular in nature in that the rating system allows for ratings to be based on the number of times that portions segments clips of the media file are played or otherwise executed as opposed to basing the rating solely on the number of times that the media file is played. In this regard the aspects herein described may further provide for ratings of the portions segments clips of the media content as opposed to just providing a rating for the overall media content file. The finely detailed level of rating that may be provided by the aspects described is highly desired by content providers and network operators who can then in turn better assess future marketing sales and or advertising needs based on the precise level of content rating provided by the present aspects. Additionally by basing the rating system on the number of times that portions of media files are played the rating system is automated and does not involve user inputs beyond launching the media content.

In one aspect a method for rating media content on a wireless communication device is defined. The method includes playing a selected media content on the wireless communication device logging an amount of the playing of one or more portions of the media content and rating the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion.

The method may further include providing rating metrics that are associated with the rating of the media content. The rating metrics may estimate a user preference for playing the selected media content. In turn the method may further include providing the rating metrics on an output mechanism such as display associated with the wireless communication device communicating the rating metrics to a network entity such as a content provider service provider or the like and or communicating the rating metrics to user selected social networking group or the like. Communicating the rating metrics may be configured to occur automatically or may be based on user preference. Based on communicating the rating metrics to the network entity or user selected social networking group the method may further include receiving media content recommendations that are based on the rating metrics and or receiving advertisements that are selected based on the rating metrics.

In other aspects of the method rating the media content may further comprise rating the one or more portions of the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion. In such aspects the method may further include providing rating metrics that are associated with the rating of each portion of the media content. The rating metrics estimate a user preference for playing the one or more portions of the media content.

Alternate aspects of the method may include logging a time between playbacks of the media content logging an amount of sharing recommending the media content to other media content users logging the amount of transferring the media content to other communication device and the like and using this additional logged information as a basis for rating the media content.

A further aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured to rate media content on a wireless communication device. The processor includes a first module for playing a selected media content on the wireless communication device and a second module for logging an amount of the playing of one or more portions of the media content. The processor additionally includes a third module for rating the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium defines another relayed aspect. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to play a selected media content on the wireless communication device and at least one instruction for causing the computer to log an amount of the playing of one or more portions of the media content. The medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to rate the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion.

Yet another related aspect is provided for an apparatus. The apparatus includes means for playing a selected media content on the wireless communication device and means for logging an amount of the playing of one or more portions of the media content. The apparatus additionally includes means for rating the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion.

A wireless communication device defines yet another aspect. The device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The device also includes a media content player stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The media content player is operable to play selected media content. Additionally the device includes a media content ratings module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The media content ratings module is operable to log an amount of the playing of one or more portions of selected media content and rate the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion.

In optional aspects of the wireless communication device the media content ratings module is further operable to provide rating metrics that are associated with the rating of the media content. The ratings metrics estimate a user preference for playing the selected media content. The wireless device may further include a ratings metrics presentation module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The rating metrics presentation module is operable to present the rating metrics on an output mechanism associated with the wireless communication device.

Further the wireless communication device may include a communication module operable to communicate the rating metrics to at least one of network entity or a user selected group of media content users. The ratings metrics may be configured to be communicated to the network entity or group of media content users automatically or based on user defined preference. In response to communicating the ratings metrics the wireless communication device may include a media content recommendation module operable to receive to receive content recommendations based on communicating the rating metrics to the network entity or the user selected group of media content users and or an advertising module operable to receive advertising for presentation on the wireless communication device based on communicating the rating metrics to the network entity. The advertising is selected for the wireless communication device based on the rating metrics.

In other alternate aspects of the wireless communication device the media content ratings module may be further operable to rate the one or more portions of the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion. In such aspects the media content rating module may be further operable to provide rating metrics that are associated with the rating of the one or more portions of the media content.

Alternate aspects of the wireless communication device may provide for the media content rating module to log a time between playbacks of the media content log an amount of sharing recommending the media content to other media content users log the amount of transferring the media content to other communication device and or the like and use this additional logged information as a basis for rating the media content.

A method for managing media content ratings metrics at a network entity such as a network operator content provider content source or like provides another aspect. The method includes receiving media content ratings metrics from a wireless communication device. The ratings metrics rate media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device. The method further includes performing a media content ratings related task based on the received media content rating metrics.

In one aspect of the method performing the media content ratings related task may include providing information to the wireless communication device based on the media content ratings metrics. In such aspects the information provided may be media content recommendations based on the media content ratings metrics advertising selected based on the media content ratings metrics or the like. In other aspects performing the media content ratings related task may include determining advertisement rates for products or services in the media content based on the media content ratings metrics.

In other optional aspects of the method receiving media content ratings metrics may further include receiving the media content ratings metrics in which the ratings metrics rate portions of the media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless device. Additionally in other aspects of the method receiving media content ratings metrics may further include receiving the media content ratings metrics in which the ratings metrics rate the media content on at least one of time between playbacks an amount of sharing the media content with other users or an amount of transferring the media content to other devices.

At least one processor configured to manage media content ratings metrics at a network entity defines a related aspect. The processor includes a first module for receiving media content ratings metrics from a wireless communication device. The ratings metrics rate media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device. The processor additionally includes a second module for performing a media content ratings related task based on the received media content rating metrics.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium provides yet another related aspect. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive media content ratings metrics from a wireless communication device. The ratings metrics rate media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device. The medium additionally includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to perform a media content ratings related task based on the received media content rating metrics.

A further aspect is provided for by an apparatus that includes means for receiving media content ratings metrics from a wireless communication device. The ratings metrics rate media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device. The apparatus additionally includes means for performing a media content ratings related task based on the received media content rating metrics.

A network apparatus provides for yet another aspect. The network apparatus includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus also includes a media content ratings metric module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The media content ratings metric module is operable to receive media content ratings metrics from a wireless communication device. The ratings metrics rate media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device. The apparatus also includes a media content ratings manager module stored in the memory and in communication with the processor. The media content ratings manager module is operable to perform a task based on the received media content rating metrics.

According to optional aspects of the network apparatus the media content ratings manager module is further operable to provide information to the wireless communication device based on the media content ratings metrics. The information may include but is not limited to media content recommendations based on the media content ratings metrics advertising to the wireless communication device based on the media content ratings metrics. In other aspects the media content ratings manager may be further operable to determine advertisement rates for products or services in the media content based on the media content ratings metrics.

According to further alternate options of the network apparatus the media content ratings metric module may be further operable to receive the media content ratings metrics in which the ratings metrics rate portions of the media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content on the wireless communication device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component or module may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component or module. One or more components or modules can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components or modules can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components or modules may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component or module in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . Further a wireless communication device may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The aspects herein described provide for an enhanced media content rating system. The rating system herein disclosed is highly granular in nature in that the rating system allows for ratings to be based on portions segments clips of the media content file as opposed to the entire media content file. In this regard the rating system provides for rating of a scene in a movie a level of game a chapter of a book a song within a compact disc CD a segment within a song or the like. The resulting rating may be a rating for the media content file or individual ratings for each portion segment clip scene chapter or the like of the media content file. In turn the highly granular rating system may be used by content providers network providers and the like to better gauge precisely what content user is playing viewing listening to or the like. This information can be used by the content providers network providers and the like to assess future marketing sales and or advertising needs for the content user as well as the overall market.

Additionally by basing the rating system use statistics such the amount of times that a media content file is played viewed or otherwise interacted with the rating system is automated and transparent to the device user. The device user does not have to provide any user inputs beyond launching the media content and providing any other inputs to sustain the playing of the media content.

With reference to a schematic and block diagram is provided of a system for enhanced media content rating is provided in accordance with an aspect. The system comprises media content player devices such as laptop computer portable media player device cellular telephone or the like. While the media content player devices shown in are generally wireless media content players the devices may also be non wireless in nature such as personal computers or the like that have a wired connection to a network.

The media content player devices include a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor . The memory includes a media content player module operable to play selected media content. For example the selected media content may include but is not limited to video content such as movies television programs and the like audio content such as CDs songs voice programs and the like gaming content such as video games multimedia content interactive content data text content and the like.

The memory additionally includes a media content rating module that is operable to log an amount of playing viewing listening or otherwise executing of one or more portions of selected media content and rate the media content overall or each of the portions of the media content based on the logged amount of the playing of each portion. As defined herein a portion is any segment of the media content less than the entire media content. For example a portion may be but is not limited to a scene in a movie a level of game a chapter of a book a song within a compact disc CD a segment within a song or the like.

The system additionally includes a network apparatus that is in network communication with the media content player device . In the illustrated example of the network connection is a wireless network connection although as previously discussed the network connection may be a wired connection. The network apparatus may include one or more network devices such as servers or the like and multiple network devices may be centrally located or located at different physical locations within the constructs of the communication network.

The network apparatus includes a computer platform having at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor . The memory includes a media content ratings metric module operable to receive media content ratings metrics from the media content players . The media content ratings metrics are ratings of the collection of media content stored or played on the wireless device that indicate the user s preference for playing or executing the media content. Additionally the ratings are based on the amount of playing or executing of one or more portions of the media content on the media content player. The ratings may reflect a rating for the overall media content file such as a rating for a video movie CD song book game or the like and or the rating may reflect a rating for each portion of the media content file such as a rating for a video segment a movie scene a song within a CD a segment of a song a chapter of a book a level of a game or the like.

The memory of network apparatus additionally includes a media content ratings manager module that is operable to perform a task based on the receipt of the media content ratings metrics. The task may be but is not limited to providing media content recommendations or media content to the media content players based on the media content ratings metrics providing advertisements to the media content players based on the media content ratings metrics determining advertisement rates for products or services in the media content based on the media content ratings metrics and the like.

Referring to a detailed block diagram of a media content player device is shown in accordance with aspects. The media content player device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone The media content player device may be a wireless communication device such as any type of computerized wireless device for example a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a portable media player a portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. In alternate aspects the media content player device may be a wired communication device such as a personal computer set top box gaming console or the like. The apparatus and method for enhanced media content rating can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The media content player device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as media content player module and media content ratings module stored in the memory of media content player device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on media content players.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of media content player device and the operability of the media content player device on communications network . For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the media content player device is part of a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity .

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the media content player module and or the media content ratings module . For example processing subsystems may include clock devices applications that are implemented in conjunction with ratings logs . Alternatively one or more of the operations generally included in processing subsystems may exist in place of or in conjunctively as modules applications and or logic stored in memory .

The memory of media content player device includes a media content player module operable to play selected media content. For example the selected media content may include but is not limited to video content such as movies television programs and the like audio content such as CDs songs voice programs and the like gaming content such as video games data text content interactive content multimedia content and any other media content not shown in . It should also be noted that media content player module is not limited to commercial media content player modules such as Windows Media Player RealPlayer or the like but is broadly defined to include any module capable of playing executing or otherwise presenting media content on a media content player device.

The memory of media content player devices also includes a media content ratings module that is operable to log the amount of playing in terms of number of times and or duration of one or more portions of the media content. As previously noted the term portion as used herein refers to any segment of the media content less than the entire media content file. As such media content ratings module includes a rating log for each of the media content stored on the device or otherwise played on the device . The rating log includes media content portion entries that track the amount of playing of the associated media content portion. In the illustrated example shown in the ratings log includes a plurality of media content portion entries including media content first portion entry through media content nth portion entry which signifies the last portion of the media content. For example if the media content is a full length motion picture the rating log for the motion picture may include a media content first portion entry that reflects the amount of playing the first scene in the motion picture and additional portion entries reflecting additional scenes in the motion portion up through and including the media content nth portion entry or last entry which reflects the last scene in the motion picture.

In optional aspects the rating log may provide for tracking and logging other use indices of the media content. The tracking and logging of the other use indices may be used in conjunction with the playback amounts of the one or more portions to determine a rating for media content and or ratings for the individual portions. Referring to additional optional use indices that may be tracked and logged include time between playback entry . Included within the time between playback entry may be a time between acquisition and first playback entry which indicates the time between when the content was acquired and when the content was first played or executed. The time between playback entry provides another indication of the user s preference for the media content. In this regard the time between playback entry along with the playback amount entries provide the ability to determine a rate of playing executing the associated media content. The time between playback entry may be configured to account for time between playback of each individual portion of the media content i.e. separate entries for each portion or the time between playback entry may be configured to account for time between playback of any portion or the entire media content i.e. one entry for the entire media content .

The rating log of media content ratings module may optionally provide for an amount of sharing entry that indicates the number of times that the media content or a portion of the media content has been shared with other media content users. In certain instances the media content may capable of being freely shared with other media content users such as the case in instances in which the media content is not tied to licensing or copyright restrictions which restrict such sharing while in other instances a portion commonly referred to as a sample of the media file may be shared with other media content users. The sharing entry may further be used by the ratings module along with the amount of playback entries to determine a user s preference for particular media content.

Additionally the rating log of media content ratings module may optionally include an amount of transferring entry that indicates the number of times that the media content or a portion of the media content has been transferred to another device. In certain instances the media content may capable of being freely transferred to other devices in the possession of the media content player user such as the case in instances in which the media content is not tied to licensing or copyright restrictions which restrict such transfer. For example a user may acquire a motion picture on a wireless device such as a portable media player cellular telephone or the like and subsequently desire to transfer the motion picture to a set top box with memory in order to subsequently play the movie on a conventional television video monitor. The amount transferring entry may further be used by the ratings module along with the amount of playback entries to determine a user s preference for particular media content.

In other aspects the rating log of media content ratings module may optionally include an amount of changing acquisition or playback priority entry . In certain media content acquisition systems such as the system described in relation to and described infra. the user may create and maintain a priority list for acquiring media content. Storage limitations may prohibit the media content player device from storing a large volume of certain media files such as large memory video files. Additionally Digital Rights Management DRM protocol may prohibit a media content player device from storing more than a prescribed number of media content in instances in which the content is leased or rented as opposed to be owned outright. In such aspects the priority list provides an indication of the order in which media content items may be acquired. In other aspects the user may create and maintain a playback priority list that provides the user with a listing of stored media content ordered in terms of the preference for playback immediacy. By changing the order of acquisition priority and or playback priority the user provides further indication as to their preference for playing executing the media content. The amount of change of acquisition priority and or playback priority entry may further be used by the ratings module along with the amount of playback entries to determine a user s preference for particular media content.

Returning to the media content ratings module additionally includes media content ratings logic operable to determine a media content rating for each of media content and or each of the portions of the media content. Media content ratings logic determines media content rating based on the amount of playing of the portions of the media content. Additionally the media content rating may determine the media content rating based on other use indices such as but not limited to time between playback time between acquisition and playback amount of sharing with other media content users amount of transferring to other media content playing devices amount of changing acquisition or playing priority or the like.

Media content ratings module may include media content ratings metrics which include a collection of the plurality of media content ratings for each media content file item that is stored has been stored in the past and or has been played or executed in the past on the media content player device . As previously noted each of the media content ratings may include individual media content portion ratings for each of the portions of the media content. The media content ratings metrics may be presented on the media content player device and or they may be communicated to a network entity and or they may be shared with other media player devices such as shared with a social networking group.

As such memory of media content player device may include a ratings metrics presentation module operable for configuring the ratings metrics in presentable format and presenting the ratings metrics on an output mechanism such as a media content player display or the like.

Additionally the memory of computer platform includes communications module operable for communicating the media content ratings metrics to a network entity such as a network operator service provider or the like and or other media content users such as users in a social networking group or the like. Additionally the communications may be operable to receive media content ratings metrics from other media content users devices such as users in a social networking group or the like. Communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof enables communications among the various components of media content player device as well as between the media content player device and network apparatus and or other media content player devices. As such the communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. In addition to communicating the media content ratings to a network entity and or other media content users the communication module may be operable to receive media content recommendations and or advertisements based on communicating the media content ratings metrics to the network entities and or other media content users.

In this regard the memory of media content player device may optionally include media content recommendation module that is operable to receive media content recommendations from a network entity such as a network provider or content provider or the like and or from other media content users such as users in a social networking group or the like. The media content recommendation being based on the media content rating metrics sent to either or the network entity or the other media content users. In addition to receiving media content recommendations the media content recommendation module may be operable to determine recommendations for other media content users and to communicate via communications module the recommendations to the other media content users devices such as users in a social networking group. In such instances the recommendations may be based on the media content ratings metrics communicated to the other media content users devices and or media content metrics received from the other media content users devices.

The memory of media content player may additionally optionally include an advertising module operable for receiving advertisements and or advertisement recommendations via communication module from a network entity such as an advertisement provider network service provide content provider or the like. In such aspects the advertisements and or advertisement recommendations may be based on the media content ratings metrics associated with media content player device . In the aspect in which the advertisement module receives advertisements the advertisement module may be operable for presenting the advertisements in conjunction with playing or executing the media content on the media content player device and or in conjunction with any other application executing on the media content player device that provides for advertisement insertion. In the aspect in which the advertisement module receives advertisement recommendations the advertisement module may be operable to retrieve advertisements for a local database or from a network databases based on the advertisement recommendations and present the retrieved advertisements on the media content player device in conjunction with the media content and or other applications executing on the media content player device .

Additionally as previously noted media content player device output mechanisms for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. Additionally media content player device includes input mechanisms for generating inputs into media content player device. For example input mechanisms may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for user input to interface with media content to provide for playing the media content in its entirety or playing chosen portions of the media content. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display media content video and or a speaker operable to output audio related to media content audio and the like.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of a network apparatus in accordance with present aspects. The network apparatus is in network communication with the media content player device not shown in . The network apparatus may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network apparatus may be executed entirely on the network apparatus or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the media content player device and the modules and applications executed by network apparatus .

The network apparatus includes computer platform that can transmit and receive data across a wired or wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network apparatus as well as between the network apparatus and media content player devices . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

The memory of network apparatus includes a media content ratings metric module operable to receive via communications module media content ratings metrics from the media content players . The media content ratings metrics may include media content ratings for an overall media content file such as an entire motion picture or the like and the media content rating metrics may optionally include media content portion ratings that indicate a rating a rating for a portion of the overall media content file such as a scene in a motion picture or the like. Thus media content ratings metrics are ratings of the collection of media content and or portions of the media content stored or played on the media content player device. As previously noted the media content ratings indicate the user s preference for playing or executing the media content and or a portion of the media content. Additionally the ratings are based on the amount of playing or executing of one or more portions of the media content on the media content player and optionally other use indices such as the time between playback the amount of transfer to other media content player devices the amount the sharing with other media content users the amount of changing acquisition playing priority and the like.

The memory of network apparatus additionally includes a media content ratings manager module that is operable to perform a task based on the receipt of the media content ratings metrics . As such the media content ratings manager may optionally include a media content recommender operable to determine media content recommendations for user s of media content player devices based on the media content ratings metrics associated with the user. Media content recommender may determine media content recommendations and communicate via communication module the recommendations back to the associated media content player device. Alternatively the media content recommender may be configured to communicate media content or a portion of the media content i.e. a sample of the media content to the associated media content player device based on the recommendations. A sample of the media content may be communicated in conjunction with the media content recommendations to further entice the user into purchasing or otherwise acquiring the media content. In such aspects the media content recommender may access the media content database to retrieve the recommended media content or a sample of the recommended media content.

Additionally the media content ratings manager may include an advertisement determiner operable to determine advertisements targeted for user s of media content player devices based on the media content ratings metrics associated with the user. Advertisement determiner may be configured to determine advertisements retrieve the advertisements for an advertisement database and communicate advertisements to the media content player devices via communication module . In alternate aspects the advertiser determiner may determine advertisements and communicate via the communication module the determined list of advertisements to the media content player device which in turn retrieves the advertisements from a local database or a network database.

The media content ratings manager may additionally optionally include an advertisement rate determiner that is operable to determine advertising rates for products or services that are included in the media content based on the media content metrics for the particular media content or media content portion that the service or product is included within. For example many motion pictures have name brand named products used throughout the motion picture which provide for the motion picture maker to charge an advertisement fee rate to the manufacturer of the product based on the placement of the product in the motion picture. Based on media content rating metrics which indicate a users preference for playing a selected media content the motion picture provider or the like can gauge the amount of playing of the media content or more specifically the amount of playing of the specific portion of the media content that includes the brand name product. In turn the motion picture provider or the like can charge the manufacturer an advertisement rate that is commiserate with the amount of times that the media content or the specific portion of media content is being played or otherwise executed. By basing the advertisement rate off of the amount of playing the media content or the specific portion of media content as opposed to a flat rate or a rate based on the acquisition amount the content provider benefits from pricing advertising based on actual viewing of the product i.e. advertisement impressions and the product manufacturer only pays for advertising based on actual viewing of the product. The advertisement rates may subsequently be communicated via communication module to the product or service providers associated with the advertised service or product.

With reference to a content delivery system improves upon delivery of media content over a communication network by utilizing a plurality of strategically placed vendor kiosks that have an economic incentive to service a plurality of wireless capable portable devices . It should be noted that the system shown in is by way of example only and that media content can be delivered or otherwise acquired by media content player devices in other manners and via other systems. As such the delivery or acquisition of media content may occur over a wireless connection a wired connection or directly to the media content player device via incorporated or connected device such as DVD CD player or the like.

It should be appreciated that in system of the media content players are described as portable devices while in other systems the media content players may non portable devices such as PCs or the like. Portable devices may comprise a number of types handheld or carried apparatus with a unitary or distributed construction that perform a more dedicated function e.g. solely media player or are a converged device having media player as one function e.g. smart phone . In the illustrative depiction a population of wireless capable portable devices including a converged handheld computer are depicted as including a personal media player PMP carried by a user .

The communication network can provide communication channels of varying data throughput interoperability and coverage areas. For example portions of the communication network can comprise a public or private Internet public telephone switched network PSTN and or an over the air broadcast carrier e.g. unicast multicast one way two way WiMax cellular telephone etc. depicted as a backhaul network for media content distribution purposes. In the exemplary depiction the communication channel via the PTSN to vendor kiosk is a very economical albeit slow for downloading large media files and provides an opportunity for prepositioning popular catalog selections well in advance of a user being in proximity.

A network controller manages the content delivery system by maintaining a subscriber record data structure and content pre positioning tracking data structure that is reflected in updated catalogs. The central controller relays billing and credits to a billing service and receives advertisements from advertisers for merging or coupling in some instances with delivered media content . A central operator interface I F can provide human interaction configuration of central controller operator assistance via the PTSN with users or facilitating a user web input output I O service for subscribing or for receiving selections. Web enabled portable devices such as depicted at can access this web I O directly. Media providers that provide access to the media content can facilitate data rights management DRM for end user access and use limitations on the media content .

In an illustrative use case the PMP enters a coverage area of the kiosk resulting in receiving a first portion of a selection or depending on the size of the selection or the time located in the coverage area the entire selection which can include user indication as depicted at . In the instance in which only a portion of the selection is received upon leaving the coverage area or shutdown of the PMP a partial content transfer module verifies the integrity of the partial transfer prepares a report to the network for the next opportunity to upload and in some instances formats the partial transfer for playback. Subsequently the PMP forms an ad hoc network with another subscribing portable device that is able to transfer another portion of the selection previously downloaded or relayed from kiosk . Subsequently the PMP completes the download from kiosk which can be the same device as a home kiosk that archives or supplements the downloaded selection from the PMP . The home kiosk e.g. a set top box home computer dedicated device etc. or the PMP in some aspects can then stream or download the media content for playback on a full size display monitor .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method for enhanced media content rating is provided according to an aspect. At Event a selected media content is played or otherwise executed on a media content player device. The media content may include video media content audio media content multimedia media content gaming media content interactive media content data text media content and the like. The media content may be played or executed in its entirety or only a selected portion or selected portions of the media content may be played. As previously noted the media content player may comprise any device suitable for playing media content including wireless devices and wired devices.

At Event the amount of the playing of one or more portions of the media content are logged. Logging of the playing of the portions provides for the number of times that a selected portion has been played or the length of time that a portion has played. As previously noted a portion is herein defined as any segment less than the entire media content file. As such a portion may include a clip or scene in video or multimedia file a single photo in a picture file a song or song segment in a music file a chapter in an audio file a chapter in a book text file a level in a gaming file or the like. A user may select to play only one designated portion of media content or the user may play the entire media content file. In either instance the method provides for logging the portions that have been played or executed. For example if the user selects to play or otherwise execute a single portion the single portion is logged and if the user plays or otherwise executes the entire media content all of the portions that comprise the media content are logged.

At Event the media content is rated based on the logged amount of playing of each portion. In this regard the overall media content is rated based the user s preference for playing or otherwise executing portions of the media content. In one aspect a higher rating may be assigned if the user plays or otherwise executes the media content in its entirety versus only playing a portion of media content. In other aspects a higher rating may be assigned if the user plays or repeatedly plays a larger portion or more portions versus playing or repeatedly playing a smaller portion or less portions. The rating of the media content may be based solely on the amount of playing of the portions or it may be based on additional use indices such as time between playback amount of transfer to other media player devices amount of sharing with other media content users and the like.

At optional Event each portion of the media content is individually rated based on the logged amount of playing of each portion. In such aspects the method is able to provide a user preference for each portion of the media content in addition to or in lieu of a rating for the overall media content. By providing a media content rating for each portion of the media content network providers content providers and the like are able to gain a better understanding of which portions of the media content the user is actually playing or executing as opposed to just providing a rating of the media content in total. The rating of the portions of media content may be based solely on the amount of playing of the portions or it may be based on additional use indices such as time between playback of the portions amount of transfer of the portions to other media player devices amount of sharing of the portions with other media content users and the like.

At optional Event media content ratings metrics are provided. The media content ratings metrics comprise the media content ratings for each media content and or portions of the media content item file associated with the media content player. In this regard the metrics may include ratings for media content currently stored on the device currently accessible to the device previously played or stored but not currently stored on the device or accessible to the device and the like. Regardless of whether additional use indices beyond the amount of playing portions of media content are used to determine media content ratings the additional use indices such as playback of the portions amount of transfer of the portions to other media player devices amount of sharing of the portions with other media content users and the like may comprise the media content ratings metrics.

At optional Event the media content ratings metrics are presented on the media content player device and or communicated to a network entity such as a content provider service provider or the like and or communicated to other media content users such as a social networking group or the like. In response to communicating the media content ratings metrics to the network entity and or the other media content users the media content player device may receive media content and or media content recommendations that are based on the media content ratings metrics. Additionally in response to communicating the media content ratings metrics to the network entity the media content player device may receive targeted advertisements or a targeted advertisement list that are based on the media content ratings metrics.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented for a method of managing media content ratings metrics at a network entity according to another aspect. At Event the network entity such as a content provider service provider or the like receives media content rating metrics from a media content player device. The ratings metrics rate media content and in optional aspects portions of the media content based on the amount of playing of one or more portions of the media content. Additionally the media content ratings included in the metrics may rate the content or portions of the content on other use indices such as playback of the portions amount of transfer of the portions to other media player devices amount of sharing of the portions with other media content users and the like. Or alternately the other use indices such as playback of the portions amount of transfer of the portions to other media player devices amount of sharing of the portions with other media content users and the like may be included as separate indices within the content ratings metrics.

At Event the network entity performs a media content ratings related task based on receipt of the media content ratings metrics. In one aspect the media content ratings related task may comprise determining media content to recommend to the media content player device or user associated with the media content rating metrics based on the metrics. The network entity further communicates the media content recommendations the media recommended media content and or a sample of the recommended media content to the media content player device associated with the metrics. In another aspect the media content ratings related task may comprise determining targeted advertising for the media content player device or user associate with the metrics. The network entity further communicates the advertisements or a list of advertisements to the media content player device associated with the metrics. In yet another aspect the media content ratings related task may comprise determining advertising rates for products and or services depicted in the media content based on the media content ratings metrics associated with the media content and or portions of the media content.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Thus methods apparatus systems and computer program products are defined for an improved media content rating system. The rating system described above is highly granular in nature in that the rating system allows for ratings to be based on the number of times that portions segments clips of the media file are played or otherwise executed as opposed to basing the rating solely on the number of times that the media file is played. In this regard the aspects described may further provide for ratings of the portions segments clips of the media content as opposed to just providing a rating for the overall media content file. The finely detailed level of rating that may be provided by the aspects is highly desired by content providers and network operators who can then in turn better assess future marketing sales and or advertising needs based on the precise level of content rating provided by the present aspects. Additionally by basing the rating system on the number of times that portions of media files are played the rating system is automated and does not involve user inputs beyond launching the media content.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

