---

title: Apparatus and methods for strategic planning by utilizing roadmapping
abstract: A system for performing strategic planning. At least one processor and memory are configured to, based on user input, provide a plurality of roadmaps, and link a data point of a first roadmap to a data point of a second roadmap to integrate at least portions of the first and second roadmaps. “Intelligent” roadmapping can be provided wherein the system scans relationships in data from different sources and loads related categories and data points onto a combined roadmap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129243&OS=09129243&RS=09129243
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09129243
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080602
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 941 576 filed on Jun. 1 2007. The disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

An enterprise may use roadmaps for strategic planning e.g. in planning business strategy computing strategy business process evolution computing technology technology usage and or application evolution. Roadmapping data sources can exist in many forms in an enterprise. Data useful in roadmapping also may be provided by enterprise partners suppliers and or developers.

The present disclosure in one implementation is directed to a system for performing strategic planning. At least one processor and memory are configured to based on user input provide a plurality of roadmaps and link at least one data point of a first roadmap to at least one data point of a second roadmap to integrate at least portions of the first and second roadmaps.

In another implementation the disclosure is directed to a system for use in performing strategic planning. At least one processor and memory are configured to analyze data from a plurality of databases to determine time based relationships among points of the data and in response to user input combine at least some of the analyzed data points and relationships from more than one of the databases into a combined roadmap.

In yet another implementation the disclosure is directed to a system performed method for use in strategic planning. Based on user input data is used from a plurality of data bases to provide a plurality of roadmaps. Based on user input at least one data point of a first roadmap is linked to at least one data point of a second roadmap to integrate at least portions of the first and second roadmaps.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses.

An exemplary embodiment of a planning framework in which roadmapping is used is indicated generally in by reference number . Roadmapping can be used by an enterprise e.g. as a process to determine future market drivers and influences as well as future products and associated needs and requirements. These elements in turn can drive technology development on sustaining and future products. In one implementation of the disclosure a real time software application is used to create roadmap models that graphically depict plans projects and their potential risks. It should be noted generally that although some implementations are described in this disclosure as utilizing several commercial off the shelf COTS software products the disclosure is not so limited. Other or additional COTS and or non COTS software could be used in various implementations.

A strategic planning system in accordance with one implementation of the disclosure is a transition planning reporting tool an exemplary architecture for which is indicated generally in by reference number . The system enables the creation and analysis of roadmap models. In the system information from data sources internal and or external to the enterprise may be used in the system for creating roadmaps. Such information may include but is not limited to data from an enterprise encyclopedia that may contain e.g. an inventory of computing applications used in the enterprise. Additionally or alternatively data sources may include architecture information which may include e.g. program activation date s for information technology computing applications. Other or additional data sources include sources for business process information management system information and roadmap information provided by strategy partners of the enterprise. Technology development strategy information to support product development may be provided e.g. via Vision Strategist available from Alignent Software Inc. Experimental data tables allow users of the system to prototype emerging requirements e.g. before establishing a dedicated interface to the system . Information may be provided as to program planning milestones predecessors and successors obtained e.g. via project management software such as MS Project. Executive presentation roadmaps may also be provided.

Various systems e.g. Oracle SQL Server Teradata MySQL MS Access MS Excel and or MS Project may have been used to provide data available to the system through data sources . In one implementation users e.g. outside the enterprise who have engaged in strategic planning sessions may store results of their strategic planning in a database . The results then may be loaded e.g. via MS Access MS Project or directly to a data source for subsequent use in roadmapping as further described below.

The system uses a server to support combined views as further described below. The system allows integration of data e.g. Oracle SQL Server Teradata MySQL MS Access MS Excel and or MS Project data in roadmaps e.g. to provide an extended enterprise view. In the system data is periodically extracted from data sources transformed and loaded to the server and evaluated as to relationships with data from other data sources . The data is examined for conformity to logical constructs based e.g. on date. For example a data point that includes a market release date for a product may be linked to a data point that includes a readiness date for a technology needed to produce the product. If the product release date is earlier than the technology readiness date the relationship is indicated as being improperly sequenced. Such evaluations may be performed using e.g. Structured Query Language SQL . In one implementation tables are created and stored in the server for linking data points between data sources . The data in turn may be modified for use by a modeling tool referred to generally by reference number e.g. Metis available from Troux Technologies Inc. at www.troux.com.

A computer may be used to access the system via a web browser . A web application referred to herein as Visual Builder allows authorized users to drag drop data points on a graphical interface to integrate and or link roadmaps. A web application allows a user to define the contents of a Metis model. A Model Cloner Builder Administrator Studio CBAS allows a user to create models expeditiously based on previously stored models. For example there can be dynamic integration with a Metis application programming interface API within the system . The CBAS tool is a .net application that supports Metis model automation allowing creation of roadmap s on demand. Model definitions and associations may be stored in tables which may be provided as input to the modeling tool via the combined views . In some implementations users may input model definitions and associations for creating roadmaps directly into the tables .

The system can identify and route International Traffic In Arms Regulations ITAR sensitive database references to a secure ITAR database instance in the system . The system can analyze pertinent data and determine whether any ITAR data is involved and take restrictive action such as excluding non authorized people from seeing the data. The system may secure extremely sensitive data e.g. by an individual personal ID number so that only authorized persons can see the data. The system manages data and roadmaps in accordance with predefined security procedures. The system can secure data to the record level for those people who have a need to know. The system can distinguish data based e.g. on data types including but not necessarily limited to public knowledge company knowledge and knowledge known by an explicitly limited group of people.

An exemplary data model is indicated generally in B C and D by reference number . It should be noted that the system manipulates submitted data to provide relationships among data points that could not be provided e.g. through the modeling tool without manual intervention. For example a table named Related Milestones is used in linking data points from more than one data source and in some implementations from more than one enterprise. 

The system allows a user to link data points within the Visual Builder . The system then creates a roadmap model showing the data points in context of related categories. In such manner a user is allowed to analyze scenarios to determine their likelihood of success or failure based on data provided from authority sources. The system presents roadmapping data on a HTML based web site viewable via typical web browsers e.g. in the form of an explorer tree interface indicated generally in by reference number . Two roadmaps and are shown which include categories of data points . A user may drop drag one or more data points from one tree to the other tree. Linked roadmaps are created when data points also known as milestones are dragged from one tree to another e.g. onto another data point . Intelligent roadmapping is provided wherein the system scans relationships in the data and loads related categories and data points onto a combined roadmap.

An exemplary roadmap is indicated generally in by reference number . Categories are listed vertically next to the roadmap. A category is typically an area of concern in a roadmap and could be one of a variety of types e.g. market related production related etc. Time is represented across a horizontal axis . The system performs visual sequencing . That is the system searches and analyzes data to determine whether linked data points are properly sequenced then may present such analysis to viewers using the system e.g. in the form of colored styled linkage lines via the modeling tool . Green lines may be used to represent properly sequenced relationships. Red lines may be used to show any problem relationships. As previously discussed relationships provided to the system may be analyzed e.g. via SQL queries to determine whether dates at each end of a relationship are in order. Roadmap line colors are established based on applicable business logic. The concept of being in order may vary among users and the system can apply line colors based on the business requirements of a particular user. In a single line is red indicating an improperly sequenced linking of data points. A single line is blue indicating a sequencing that is too close to determine whether the linking is proper or improper. All other lines in are green. Another roadmap implementation indicated generally in by reference number includes a large number of red lines that could indicate a need for additional planning evaluation. It should be noted that in various implementations a user need not specify time when linking data points. The system determines time sequencing based on the data point relationships.

The system provides a find neighborhood script to allow a user to analyze based on relationships a highly complex roadmap and generate text reports. For example the user may decide to analyze data points in proximity to one or more data points that had been displayed as problematic in a combined roadmap. In such manner the user may determine e.g. whether a problematic date associated with a given data point e.g. a date to which an event is postponed for some reason might have an adverse impact on other goals reflected on the roadmap. A user may perform analysis of a roadmap view it graphically and create a text report of the results with graphical support that can be printed. The system has the capability to apply line colors and patterns and object colors and fill patterns to match to a user s thinking pattern to deliver a more usable roadmap or system flow model. The system user interface is designed to emulate an end result in the modeling tool e.g. in Metis. This capability is empowered by a data structure that can store all the intelligence to be provided to Metis. In the same or similar manner as MS Access Metis can be used essentially to provide a user interface of the system .

The system has the ability to generate PowerPoint equivalent models in Metis that can be e.g. pasted into an executive level presentation. Executive roadmaps and standard system roadmaps can be made available for architects to create a planning chart based on notional data provided e.g. in MS Access or authoritative data e.g. from an enterprise system encyclopedia or other authoritative source.

An interface of the system to a project management tool such as Microsoft Project allows a project manager to create system roadmaps from a MS Project file to identify out of sequence planning conditions. The system may include re usable SQL load scripts to access MS Project data and specifically predecessors and successors analyze the relationships and create a graphical Metis model showing where any disconnects and schedule difficulties lie.

The system can interface with a database management tool such as Microsoft Access to provide a capability for nearly any computer user to create system roadmaps. MS Access templates may be used to enhance the usability of the system . The system may include re usable SQL load scripts for taking user planning data loading it into the system and generating Metis models e.g. essentially immediately thereafter. The user can obtain a graphical representation in Metis substantially immediately after submission of the data. The user can analyze the graphic and update the MS Access data and re submit repeatedly. MS Access may provide the authority data.

The system can provide custom symbols and or artwork to convey information at a data point level. Symbols may be designed to scale within Metis e.g. to handle roadmap complexity when printed to a plotter. Metis models generated in the system include hide show icons which allow the user to down select a model and simplify it to contain only those datapoint types the user wishes to see. A user interface may be designed to emulate lines and fill colors of a modeling tool result. Roadmap models may support planning e.g. from one day through 100 years. It also is contemplated that in some configurations very small time scales e.g. nanoseconds could be supported.

The system has been designed to enable new users to quickly learn e.g. within an hour how to use the system as opposed to days. The system is intuitive and minimizes the need for manual interfacing to perform basic tasks. It is able to import and export data and is flexible to meet emerging customer requirements. Other software packages do not have the abilities of the system to perform real time analysis of roadmaps or generate reports based on the roadmap analysis.

The system is Web based and may be used e.g. by persons having appropriate security authorization. Other software tools typically do not provide the capability for performance of visual sequencing real time analysis of roadmaps functionalities such as drag and drop of data points or the ability to provide a simultaneous view of two independent sets of roadmaps.

Various systems and methods in accordance with the disclosure can be used to facilitate joint strategic planning between a company and its partners suppliers and developers enabling them to reduce overall flow time and technology development costs. The foregoing system provides a platform for building roadmaps and models for a company and its internal organizations to align technology development to meet current and future program requirements in a cost efficient timely manner. The system enables users to analyze their roadmaps models in real time to determine roadblocks new markets strategies alternative technology development scenarios missing requirements and more. Roadmaps from an assortment of groups can be readily shared among the groups to align technology development to product needs and requirements.

While various embodiments have been described those skilled in the art will recognize modifications or variations which might be made without departing from the present disclosure. The examples illustrate the various embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Therefore the description and claims should be interpreted liberally with only such limitation as is necessary in view of the pertinent prior art.

