---

title: Object detection and user settings
abstract: Object detection and user setting techniques are described. In an implementation, an object placed on a surface of the client is detected by the client. A determination is made as to which of a plurality of users correspond to the detected object. One or more user settings are located that correspond to the determined user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08421747&OS=08421747&RS=08421747
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08421747
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
Users have access to an ever increasing variety of content. Additionally users are also continually exposed to different devices that may be used to interact with that content. For example users were traditionally limited to accessing the Internet using desktop computers. However users may now access the Internet using a variety of other devices such as game consoles personal digital assistants PDAs and mobile smart phones.

Accordingly a user may utilize a variety of different devices to interact with a variety of different content. The traditional techniques that are available to interact with the content using the different devices however are often disjointed and impersonal. Consequently the user s experience with content may vary from device to device even when utilizing similar devices.

Object detection and user setting techniques are described. In an implementation an object placed on a surface of the client is detected by the client. A determination is made as to which of a plurality of users correspond to the detected object. One or more user settings are located that correspond to the determined user.

In an implementation an object is identified that is placed on a surface of a client that contains one or more user settings. A user interface is configured according to the one or more user settings and the user interface is output using at least a portion of the surface.

In an implementation the client includes a housing having a form factor of a table a surface disposed on a tabletop of a housing and one or more modules disposed within the housing. The one or more modules are configured to interact with a television over a local network connection and display content on the surface that relates to content that is currently displayed on the television. The one or more modules are also configured to detect one or more inputs from a user via the surface and control the display of the content on the surface using at least one of the inputs. The one or more modules are further configured to control the display of the content on the television using another one of the inputs.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Object detection and user setting techniques are described. In an implementation configuration of a user interface is based on one or more objects that are placed on a surface of a client. For example the client may be configured to follow a form function of a table. The client may also include functionality to determine what objects are placed on a surface of the table e.g. a table top. Identification of particular objects that have been placed on the surface may then be used to determine which user settings should be used to configure a user interface.

For example a user may place a phone on a surface of the client. The phone may be detected and user settings that are stored on the phone may be used to configure a user interface such as favorite channels for a television. In another example an object that is placed on a table e.g. a set of car keys that correspond to a particular car may be used to locate user settings that correspond to that user. A variety of other examples are also contemplated further discussion of which may be found in relation to the following sections.

In the following discussion an example environment is first described that is operable to perform one or more techniques that pertain to object detection and user settings. Example procedures are then described which may be implemented using the example environment as well as other environments. Accordingly implementation of the procedures is not limited to the example environment in the example environment is not limited to implementation of the example procedures.

The client may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the client may be configured as a computer that is capable of communicating over the network such as a desktop computer a mobile station an entertainment appliance a set top box communicatively coupled to a display device a wireless phone a game console and so forth. Thus the client may range from full resource devices with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. personal computers game consoles to a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. traditional set top boxes hand held game consoles . The clients may also relate to a person and or entity that operate the clients. In other words clients may describe logical clients that include software and or devices.

Although the network is illustrated as the Internet the network may assume a wide variety of configurations. For example the network may include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a public telephone network an intranet and so on. Further although a single network is shown the network may be configured to include multiple networks. For instance the client and another client may be communicatively coupled via a local network connection one to another. Additionally the client may be communicatively coupled to a content provider over the Internet. Likewise an advertiser may be communicatively coupled to the content provider via the Internet. A wide variety of other instances are also contemplated.

In the illustrated environment the client is illustrated as having a form factor of a table. The table form factor includes a housing having a plurality of legs . The housing includes a table top having a surface that is configured to display one or more images such as the car as illustrated in .

The client is further illustrated as including a surface computing module . The surface computing module is representative of functionality of the client to provide computing related functionality that leverages the surface . For example the surface computing module may be configured to output a user interface via the surface . The surface computing module may also be configured to detect interaction with the surface and consequently the user interface. Accordingly a user may then interact with the user interface via the surface in a variety of ways.

For example the user may use one or more fingers as a cursor control device as a paintbrush to manipulate images e.g. to resize and move the images to transfer files e.g. between the client and another client to obtain content via the network by Internet browsing to interact with another client e.g. the television that is local to the client e.g. to select content to be output by the other client and so on. Thus the surface computing module of the client may leverage the surface in a variety of different ways both as an output device and an input device further discussion of which may be found in relation to .

The client is also illustrated as having a user interface UI configuration module and user settings . The UI configuration module is representative of functionality of the client to configure a user interface using the user settings . For example as previously described the surface computing module may act in conjunction with the surface as an input device. Accordingly objects placed on the surface may be detected by the surface computing module .

These objects may then be identified by the surface computing module to identify user settings that correspond to the objects. For example the object may be configured to maintain the user settings such as a mobile phone of a user. Once the object has been detected the user settings may be retrieved from the object and used by the UI configuration module to configure a user interface. In another example the identification of the object may be user to locate corresponding user settings such as by detecting a particular user s car keys and then retrieving the user settings from storage that is local to the client and or remotely over the network .

A variety of different user interfaces may be configured using the user settings . For example a user interface may be output via the surface that is configured to control operation of the client . In another example the user interface may be output by another client such as an electronic program guide EPG on the television that is configured to include a user s favorite shows.

The UI configuration module may also support a variety of functionality to enhance viewing of content output by another client illustrated as the television in . For example the client and the other client may communicate via the network e.g. directly via a local area network and or indirectly via a remote server accessible via the Internet to be aware of each other s state one to another. When a television program is displayed via the other client that is associated with an enhanced experience the client and display content that enhances the content displayed via the other client .

For example additional information may be displayed during an event e.g. such as a sporting event to supplement the content currently being output via the other client . For instance an output of a car race on the other client as illustrated in may be supplemented via the surface of the client by displaying statistics a track layout additional camera angles and so on.

In another instance multiple events may be tracked via the surface of the client . A number of concurrent events for example may be tracked during a sporting event such as video feeds information and so on. In this way a user may be readily informed regarding additional content that may be available for output that is not currently being output by the other client .

In a further instance an alert may be output via the surface of the client which may be specified via the user settings of the client . The user settings to specify a variety of different alert conditions such as an occurrence of the specified action in a sporting event a business relationship e.g. a stock price weather and so on. Information relating to the alert may then be output via the surface of the client and or the other client . A variety of other examples are also contemplated without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module functionality and logic as used herein generally represent software firmware or a combination of software and firmware. In the case of a software implementation the module functionality or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices further description of which may be found in relation to . The features of the surface techniques described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions. Alternatively the mechanisms of or for processors and thus of or for a computing device may include but are not limited to quantum computing optical computing mechanical computing e.g. using nanotechnology and so forth. Additionally although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed such as random access memory RAM hard disk memory removable medium memory and other types of computer readable media.

The client is illustrated as executing an operating system on the processor which is also storable in memory . The operating system is executable to abstract hardware and software functionality of the underlying client such as to one or more applications that are illustrated as stored in memory . In this system of the UI configuration module is illustrated as one of the applications that are stored in memory of the client with the user settings e.g. the UI configuration module is an executable module in the illustrated instance.

The surface computing module is also illustrated as including an image projection module and a surface detection module . The image projection module is representative of functionality of the client to project an image onto the surface . A variety of different techniques may be employed by the image projection module to project the image such as through use of a rear projection system an LCD and so on.

The surface detection module is representative of functionality of the client to detect one or more objects when placed proximal to the surface . The surface detection module may employ a variety of different techniques to perform this detection such as radio frequency identification RF ID image recognition barcode scanning optical character recognition and so on.

For example the surface detection module of is illustrated as including one or more infrared projectors one or more infrared cameras and a detection module . The one or more infrared projectors are configured to project infrared and or near infrared light on to the surface . The one or more infrared cameras may then be configured to capture images of the reflected infrared light output by the infrared projectors .

For instance objects such as fingers of respective users hands a user s phone and keys are visible by the infrared cameras through the surface . In the illustrated instance the infrared cameras are placed on an opposing side of the surface from the users hands e.g. within a housing of the client . The detection module may then analyze the images captured by the infrared cameras to detect objects that are placed on the surface . An output of this analysis may then be provided to the operating system the applications and so on.

In an implementation the surface detection module may detect multiple objects at a single point in time. For example the fingers of the respective users hands may be detected for interaction with a user interface output by the operating system . In this way the client may support simultaneous interaction with multiple users.

The client may also support gestures which may be used to interact with the user interface. For example different gestures may be used to expand an image rotate an image move files between devices slept output of a particular item of content and so on. Although detection using image capture has been described a variety of other techniques may also be employed by the surface computing module and more particularly the surface detection module to detect objects placed on or proximate to the surface of the client such as RFID sounding techniques e.g. ultrasonic techniques similar to radar biometric e.g. temperature and so on. A variety of other techniques are also contemplated that may be used to leverage interaction with the surface of the client without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

In an implementation the UI configuration module may leverage detection of objects on the surface of the client . For example a user may place keys on the surface . The keys may then be detected by the surface detection module which may then output an indication that the keys have been detected to the UI configuration module . This indication may be configured in a variety of ways such as a numerical identifier that is unique to a brand of the keys an image of the keys for further processing by the UI configuration module and so on.

The UI configuration module may then identify the object placed on a surface and used this identification as a basis for configuring a user interface. Continuing with the previous example the UI configuration module may identify a particular user that is associated with the keys and locate user settings that correspond to the particular user. A user interface may then be configured based on the user settings and output via the surface . An example of this is illustrated in as an image of a car as a background that is output by the image projection module on a surface . In another example the user interface may be output by another client such as an electronic program guide output by the other client that is communicatively coupled to the client via the network . A variety of other examples are also contemplated further discussion of which may be found in relation to the following procedures.

The following discussion describes surface computing techniques that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to the environment of and the system of .

Accordingly a variety of different objects may be placed on the surface of the client for detection by the client . For example one or more users fingers of the users hands may be placed on the surface of the client keys a mobile phone a wallet and so on.

A determination is that made as to which of a plurality of users correspond to the detected object block . The surface computing module for instance may use image recognition and or RFID techniques e.g. by reading a unique identifier to determine that the keys correspond to a particular user. The surface computing module may then locate the user settings that correspond to the particular user block e.g. from memory is local to the client and or remotely via the network .

A user interface is configured using the one or more user settings block . For example the user settings may specify favorites of the particular user e.g. favorite channels websites music actors and so on a particular background to be used in a user interface settings particular to one or more applications and so on.

Additionally the user interface that is configured using the user settings may be output in a variety of ways. For example the user interface may be output using at least a portion of the surface of the client block . In another example user interface may be output using another client that is local to the client block such as the other client of . Accordingly the user interface may be configured to provide interaction with the client and or the other client that is illustrated as a television. For example a user interface may be output via the surface of the client to control operation of the client and or the television e.g. such as to change channels increase or decrease volume and so on. A variety of other examples are also contemplated without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

A user interface is configured according to the one or more user settings block and the user interface is output using at least a portion of the surface block . As previously discussed the user settings may be used by the UI configuration module in a variety of different ways to configure a user interface. Thus these user settings may then be used to personalize the user interface of the surface of the client that was used to detect the object that contained the settings.

In another example another user interface may be output that was configured using the one or more user settings using another client that is local to the client having the surface block . For instance the other client may output an electronic program guide EPG configured in accordance with one or more user settings as illustrated in such as to specify an arrangement of television programs in the EPG. Though configuration of the user interface according to settings that correspond to a single user have been described it should be readily apparent that the user interface may be configured using user settings that correspond to a plurality of users further discussion of which may found in relation to the following figure.

One or more user settings are located for each of the identified plurality of users block which may be performed using one or more of the previously described techniques. A determination is then made as to which of the located one or more user settings are common to the identified plurality of users block . For example the user settings of the users may indicate that interest in particular content is shared e.g. television programs music and so on particular genres and so forth.

The user interface may then be configured using the determined common user settings block . Continuing with the previous example a favorites portion of an electronic program guide may be configured to include common favorites of the users a background may be output on the surface that corresponds to shared interests and so on.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed invention.

