---

title: Smart secure storage
abstract: A healthcare smart card management system stores a large amount of healthcare information to overcome shortcomings of separate and largely paper medical and insurance files. Embedded security technology supports partial or separated identity proofing as well as hardware time limited storage. Dynamic contextual privacy consent enhances user, healthcare provider, and insurer privacy and proprietary information to encourage and enable universal adoption. Data is structured in self-executing (“print to device”) for legacy systems as well as in rolled-access format and archival format to balance usage and data integrity purposes. A plurality of network interfaces are incorporated as well as financial transaction codes. Card integrity is enhanced by remote usage oversight, self-destruct monitoring (e.g., time, location, hacking, malfunction, etc.), and integral write-only audit logs. Levering excess storage capacity, a user can store related healthcare information such as exercise regimen, diet journal, emergency contact information, urgent medical conditions for first providers, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860793&OS=07860793&RS=07860793
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07860793
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080402
---
Smart cards having electronic memories have been increasingly distributed for facilitating transactions e.g. security access authenticated identification healthcare information storage financial transfers etc. Generally in order avoid misuse a proprietary and centrally controlled system is fielded with a card issuing authority that stores healthcare information on a smart card for a healthcare insurer. Participating healthcare providers are provided the necessary access protocols passwords etc. in order to use these cards. The insured user of the healthcare smart card is limited to using the card as proof of insurance. While such conventional healthcare smart cards are successful to a degree in preventing fraud and to simplifying healthcare data transmission to a healthcare provider such approaches prove wanting in addressing a number of situations.

For example the user may prefer or be entitled to utilize a healthcare provider who lacks the proprietary infrastructure in order to access or write to a conventional healthcare smart card. However it would be beneficial to capture information associated with such a visit so that the user s healthcare records are complete. Unfortunately flexibility in interfacing to healthcare smart cards is apparently not deemed practical. In particular ownership of such data as well as legal restrictions on allowable access can be complicated.

As another example with increasing functionality of smart card technology an opportunity is presented to seamlessly maintain a wider array of healthcare information without the detriments of traditional paper medical files. However the types of such information that is appropriate for any given party e.g. insurer healthcare specialist general physician first responder etc. is generally not the entire medical file for a user. Apprehensiveness of loss of privacy can thwart acceptance of such smart card technology.

Moreover reliance upon a healthcare smart card in lieu of a plurality of healthcare paper files or separate databases is complicated by needs for ready access in urgent care situations while preserving data integrity and backup for archival purposes.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to systems and or methods that provide a smart card for healthcare transactions that enhances a user s privacy while facilitating a broad range of legacy and conforming smart card terminals used by healthcare providers.

In accordance with one aspect of the subject innovation a method is provided for facilitating healthcare information exchange via a smart card. A first party is authenticated for accessing a healthcare smart card. A first data object is stored in a memory of the healthcare smart card having access limited to the first party. A second party is authenticated for accessing the healthcare smart card. A second object is stored in the memory of the healthcare smart card having access limited to the second party.

In another aspect a method is provided for facilitating healthcare information exchange via a smart card with enforcing privacy by receiving user settings for consent management of a healthcare smart card specifying parsed access to data stored thereon. Parties accessing the healthcare smart card are authenticated. An authenticated party is limited to a portion of the stored data corresponding to the consent management settings. Data objects are selectively recorded in one of a self executing format an archive format and a rolled access format on the healthcare smart card.

In an additional aspect a smart card facilitates healthcare information exchange by including a communication interface a random access memory for storing healthcare data tagged by category an access authentication component a user consent management module for parsing access to the stored healthcare data by category and party an archiving component to preserve selected stored healthcare data and a self destruct component responsive to a triggering event.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

A healthcare smart card management system stores a large amount of healthcare information to overcome shortcomings of separate and largely paper medical and insurance files. Embedded security technology supports partial or separated identity proofing as well as hardware time limited storage. Dynamic contextual privacy consent enhances user healthcare provider and insurer privacy and proprietary information to encourage and enable universal adoption. Data is structured in self executing print to device for legacy systems as well as in rolled access format and archival format to balance usage and data integrity purposes. A plurality of network interfaces is incorporated as well as financial transaction codes. Card integrity is enhanced by remote usage oversight self destruct monitoring e.g. time location hacking malfunction etc. and integral write only audit logs. Levering excess storage capacity a user can store related healthcare information such as exercise regimen diet journal emergency contact information urgent medical conditions for first providers etc.

The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As utilized herein terms component system interface store device network cloud and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program a function a library a subroutine and or a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Specifically the subject innovation can be utilized with a variety of hardware configurations such as but not limited to disability assisted input output facilities voice enabled input output tactile e.g. Braille etc. keyboard etc. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter. Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Now turning to the figures illustrates a system for facilitating healthcare information exchange using a healthcare smart card between a plurality of parties e.g. card holder insurer oversight entity archival entity healthcare providers legal successor to other parties etc. depicted as a smart card terminal A having healthcare data A and a smart card terminal B having healthcare data B . Each smart card terminal has a respective authentication access key for gaining access through an authentication component of the smart code . In particular portions of data in a memory of the smart card can be restricted to particular parties e.g. A or B or particular types of parties e.g. insurer healthcare provider healthcare specialist archivist etc. .

A user consent management can parse access control of portions of the memory or particular data objects in memory . In the illustrative depiction a data object A contains data A obtained from smart card terminal with tags that identifying useful information e.g. original privileges expiration data payment type of provider etc. . In order enhance consent managements or discriminated ownership privacy a data protection lock A is imposed upon the data A that can be unlocked by the authentication access key controlled by the smart card terminal A .

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that the data object A can be received as a print to device utilizing the smart card as a flash memory by a legacy or nonconforming system unable to otherwise interact with functionality of the smart card . By so doing the smart card can carry around data that would otherwise remain held by the originating party. Moreover the data object A can comprise an executable object that provides user interface functionality to the data A that is generally computer platform and application independent.

An archive utility of the smart card can format a data object such as an archived data object B depicted as containing data B from smart card terminal and locked as depicted at for accessing with authentication access key . This archival format can enhance data integrity and verification can increase storage capacity can prepare data for secure remote archiving etc.

Advantageously a plurality of network interfaces on the healthcare smart card can increase the universality and functionality of the healthcare smart card taking advantage of more types of smart card terminals .

In an exemplary system facilitates healthcare information in the form of a plurality of encrypted and tagged data objects stored securely on a healthcare smart card . A smart card terminal can verify that a user has verifying passwords or biometric data e.g. fingerprint retina pattern with an identity authentication component . Support for legacy noncompliant systems is provided by taking advantage of print to device functionality of the smart card terminal which results in printed image being stored onto the smart card . For example a card interface can be a generally available universal serial bus USB or other general purpose computer interface. The terminal can query the smart card for applicable data by utilizing a consent access by tag component finding those objects that are permitted or owned by a party using the smart card terminal depicted as a healthcare provider . Certain data can be sent via a network communication component to a network e.g. wide area network local area network ad hoc network Internet etc. for purposes such as synchronization etc.

For instance an access authority can control access privileges for various parties or their successors depicted as a user database a healthcare provider database insurer database financial institution database and a government database . An illustrative use is depicted as an identity fraud component that performs data mining to detect misuse.

In order to enhance user privacy and data integrity the healthcare smart can can be periodically backed up such as by a card issuer in order to obviate risks of card loss of damage. The card archive can receive a portion of the data on the smart card such as excluding data owned by a healthcare provider that does their own backup and restricts distribution beyond the smart card itself. The card archive can include user supplied information entered via a network communication component to a user kiosk desktop entered with user utilities and a consent management component with an example discussed below regarding .

In a card holder user of can gain enhanced sense of confidence in a smart card by incorporating interactive controls and displays. For example a low cost thin film display can generally be off to save power to enhance privacy of the user. Thus unlike conventional insurance cards and credit cards identifying information signature depiction photograph and credit card number logo can be selectively displayed when proper authorization has been provided to the card such as through a contact interface .

Rather than being unable to affect the data on the card without a terminal the smart card can advantageously include other lower power indicator and inputs. For example a slide button can disable wireless transmission reception to save battery ultracapacitor charge. Alternatively or in addition the disabling button can prevent inadvertent coupling to a near field communication or a wireless communication network e.g. wide area network Wi Fi PAN BLUE TOOTH etc. . Press to test button depicted as a recessed microswitch can temporarily power indicator lights or the thin film display with functionality status indicated. Alternatively or in addition malfunction or self destruction can cause an indicator depicted at to have a visual state apparent even when the smart card is not powered. A press to reset button can reset a processor not shown that is malfunctioning or clear the data. Indicia of being compliant with a privacy protocol Holographic Logo can provide a branding of otherwise not apparent features incorporated into the smart card .

In an exemplary smart card provides a plurality of network interfaces and functionality to serve the security privacy and healthcare information needs of a plurality of stakeholders in a healthcare information system . For example a computer interface depicted as a pivoting USB male plug allows direct access to a smart card terminal such as a general purpose computer expanding the population of possible devices that can utilize the smart card . A near field communication NFC antenna can couple to an NFC accessory providing advantages of reduced likelihood of connector wear and damage. Contacts on the smart card can interface with a card reader to the smart card terminal . A wide area network WAN personal area network PAN transceiver can communicate with access point to a network connected to the smart card terminal . The smart card can include a financial magnetic strip for facilitating conventional credit card debit transactions via a card swipe device . Alternatively or in addition a radio frequency transceiver of the smart card can communicate with a radio access network e.g. cell phone short message service etc. .

The smart card can include an autonomous power source e.g. battery can be wirelessly induced with a charge such as via the received electromagnetic signal to charge a capacitive power source or be directly power by the smart card terminal . This power activates a processor that executes applications contained in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM or a Random Access Memory RAM . For example the smart card can have sufficient power to utilize volatile RAM . Alternatively the RAM can be nonvolatile.

To further enhance inoperability the ASIC is depicted as including Card Application Programming Interfaces that can be accessed by the smart card terminal to communicate with the smart card . A preconfigured or user implemented archive utility can archive portions of data either upon receipt later upon command or passage of time or upon shortage of storage capacity. The archive utility can further take advantage of network connectivity to archive data as a backup for data integrity. Consent management utility parses privileges such as access edit and delete for data stored on the smart card to enhance privacy proprietary ownership and integrity of data. Settings for consent management can be default can be set during card issue or be user specified after issue.

The PROM can advantageously maintain an audit file that tracks information suitable for referencing later for fraud mitigation hacker protection transaction confirmation device troubleshooting and malfunction mitigation. The RAM can advantageously include user data structures depicted as exercise data . RAM can include self executing data objects containing data with identifying tags for querying and for privilege verification.

In an illustrative graphical user interface is rendering a smart card manager window such as provided by a Smart Card API accessed on the smart card of . Multiple functions can be accessed depicted as a User Login Tab a User Data Tab a Consent Management Tab a Select Execute Stored Data Object Tab and an Archive Utility Tab . In the selected Consent Management Tab Network Interface Enablement controls have been selected to enable the smart card as a memory device an NFC device a common access card CAC WAN PAN device while disabling use as a credit debit card and a cell phone device. Privilege controls can be set for each stakeholder e.g. insurer healthcare provider archivist etc. for the privileges which the user has authority to change.

Self destruct trigger controls can be set for safeguarding the data depicted as a remote command authorization a hacker detection logic and timer expiration logic. When triggered self destruct action controls can specify whether to delete data flag for report during synchronization fuse card functionality and or to disable sensitive data only.

Write only audit trail controls can specify whether to log all actions log accesses to card log write actions to card or disable use of the write only memory.

Functionality self destruct or other features can be made responsive to geographic access limitation controls depicted as setting a distance range according to city state zip code or country. This location could be determined by GPS signal based upon network connection or other inputs.

The user can advantageously search for a particular data object stored on the card via a keyword search field with a submit button and a clear entry button .

A methodology for healthcare smart card management enhances user privacy while recognizing diverse ownership and access interests in healthcare data by receiving user consent management settings in block . Healthcare data is stored within a self executing object in block in order to increase options for accessing the stored data. Healthcare data is tagged so that parsed consent can be implemented by party or type of party in block . In block circumstantial information is accessed such as a current date time either locally maintained or accessed externally upon intermittent power up. Circumstantial information can further include location e.g. global positioning system GPS network node identifier etc. . Circumstantial information can further include current operating status for the smart card to include detected malfunction or circuitry compromise.

In block a write only unerasable audit trail is recorded on the smart card for events such as access to the data and the circumstantial information. This audit trail can be useful in thwarting fraudulent use to overcome malfunctions to trigger reporting or self protection measures etc.

In block healthcare data is stored in archive format. Such archiving can increase the resolution of healthcare documentation e.g. scanned documents to preserve memory capacity. Archiving format can facilitate expeditious transmission to remote archiving. The archiving format can overlay an overall encryption protection over separately protected discrete data elements. Some of these archiving functions can be controlled by a user as depicted in block to enhance actual or perceived privacy and data integrity.

In block the smart card is synchronized with a remote tracking system. For example a card issuer could receive a subset of the healthcare data that merely shows authentication access so that improper access is detected. This card issuer could facilitate transfer of authentication access keys to successors in interest such as a new insurer or healthcare provider. Such synchronization can take advantage of periodic communication with a network enabled smart card terminal.

In block synchronization or direct smart card terminal interaction can be used to add user and emergency unprotected data on the smart card. The user or trusted third party can augment the functionality of the healthcare smart card by storing data such as a testamentary will living will durable power of attorney for healthcare decisions emergency locator information citizenship medical conditions for first responders e.g. blood type allergies chronic diseases age types locations of medical implants that limit diagnostic imaging etc. dietary journal or dietary restrictions prescribed medications exercise regimen etc.

Functionality of the healthcare smart card can be further enhanced in block by providing the necessary network interfaces and financial transaction authorization codes in order to facilitate a financial transaction with the same card.

For either financial or healthcare transactions portions of the data are monitored remotely for fraud in block . For example with a more universally acceptable medium for facilitating healthcare information exchange an independent oversight authority e.g. state or federal regulatory agency can detect contemporaneous usage of the card in different locations or with unmatched user identification etc.

In block the circumstantial information audit trail etc can trigger a preset condition e.g. time since synchronization expiration of a time limit use in a geographic location outside of permissible boundary malfunction repeated attempts to hack the identity or data of the smart card . If so determined then the smart card can self disable at least a portion of itself e.g. erasure circuitry fusing etc. in block and then the methodology is done in block .

In order to provide additional context for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the subject innovation may be implemented. For example a counselor component that facilitates automatically generating questions to ask a doctor during an appointment as described in the previous figures can be implemented in such suitable computing environment. While the claimed subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a local computer and or remote computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multi processor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based and or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may operatively communicate with one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the subject innovation may be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operably connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operably connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

There are multiple ways of implementing the present innovation e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the advertising techniques of the invention. The claimed subject matter contemplates the use from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that operates according to the advertising techniques in accordance with the invention. Thus various implementations of the innovation described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

