---

title: Method and system for fuel route planning
abstract: A method for fuel route planning is implemented on a system including: a dispatch computer for interfacing with a fuel route plan user; and a central server computer in communication with the dispatch computer through a network. The central server computer is for: receiving an origin airport and a destination airport for a flight of an aircraft; determining a flight trajectory between the origin airport and the destination airport; retrieving a plurality of refueling airports located adjacent to the flight trajectory; retrieving fuel price information associated with a plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports; presenting the flight trajectory and the plurality of refueling airports on an aeronautical/geospatial map; and displaying the fuel price information associated with the plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports for use in compiling a fuel route plan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700249&OS=08700249&RS=08700249
owner: 
number: 08700249
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081219
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 083 571 filed Jul. 25 2008 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Aviation fuel is available at Fixed Based Operators FBOs located at airports. Fuel costs vary by region and airport and because of price volatility are difficult to plan. There are approximately 7 000 FBOs in the USA. In 2006 these FBOs dispensed an estimated 1.4 billion gallons of aviation fuel in the USA representing 6.3 Billion in revenues.

Cost of fuel for operating a general aviation aircraft has increased from 32 2007 of the operation budget to 70 2008 in one year. With the probability of fuel prices continuing to increase flight department managers are looking for ways to maximize efficiencies and reduce their fuel cost. According to Conklin de Decker fuel cost for a Cessna Citation CJ2 a small corporate aircraft flying a typical 485 hours per year is around 337 000 per year data as of 2007 .

In 2007 an estimated 190 100 general aviation aircraft will be in active use in the U.S.A. According to the Federal Aviation Administration FAA 27 400 corporations owned at least one fixed wing aircraft in the U.S.A. The total aviation expenditures of all corporations with less than 2 aircraft are approximately 12.5 Billion. In the U.S.A. there are approximately 2 880 corporate flight departments that own more than 2 aircraft. On average these flight departments own 3.3 aircraft and employ 10 people. These multi aircraft flight departments combined spend 4.3 Billion to manage operate and maintain their 9 400 aircraft. The average budget is 545 000 per aircraft per year. Aside from aircraft owned by corporate entities there are more than 153 000 aviation enthusiasts that own a private aircraft. Private aircraft owners spend more than 6.1 Billion per year. Like aircraft owned by businesses private aircraft owners also purchase their aviation fuel at FBOs.

Currently there is no central repository where day to day cost responsive fuel information comes together as a coherent whole. As a result the supply and demand of aviation fuel lacks coordination and efficiency which makes flying more expensive. To find a reliable fuel supply at the lowest possible cost is almost impossible because the information is fragmented dispersed and not readily accessible. Owners of small aircraft and dispatchers in corporate flight departments currently must call or email all the FBOs in a given area to request details of current fuel prices and what discounts are available. Especially on multi stop missions this effort is excessively time consuming and can become an overwhelming burden in planning flight operations.

Additionally when planning flight operations flight planners must also do a considerable amount of research to find airports that meet the aircrafts requirements for landing and takeoff distances how far they are away from their final destination and a myriad of other information required to fly safely into a specific airport. For instance according to the FAA there are approximately 19 850 public and private airports in the U.S.A. of which 8 770 have paved runways.

Although there are websites that gather and publish some aviation fuel prices at airports there is no system that integrates this information with geospatial mapping in fuel route planning. Moreover these websites do not determine qualified airports based on the range of the aircraft and the flight trajectory from an origin airport.

The system and method of the present invention will allow aircraft owners pilots dispatchers and flight department managers to easily secure the most economic fuel supply and make better routing decisions to make fuel route planning more economical efficient and predictable. The development of a fuel route planner will increase efficiencies in the operations of the aircraft by allowing dispatchers to route their flights into airports with the best fuel prices. The system gives the user a graphical display with fuel options within range of an aircraft along the flight trajectory of the aircraft.

This system of the present invention integrates two databases airports and FBOs with a geospatial mapping interface. Using a coordinate system latitude and longitude the system locates airports within a corridor relative to a flight trajectory and reports the fuel prices on those airports.

Although this disclosure emphasizes the features and advantages of the demand side aircraft owners flight departments etc. the system also has features and advantages for the supply side FBOs . As the fuel route planning system enables the coordination of the supply and demand of aviation fuel it gives smaller and less well known FBOs the ability to be competitive with larger regional airports FBOs. In addition the fuel route planning system enables making fuel reservations by aircraft owners or flight dispatchers securing fuel availability. For FBOs the fuel reservation capability offers improved demand forecasting fuel inventory management and higher fuel inventory turnover.

According to one aspect of the invention a method for fuel route planning includes receiving an origin airport and a destination airport for a flight of an aircraft determining a flight trajectory between the origin airport and the destination airport retrieving from an airport information database a plurality of refueling airports located adjacent to the flight trajectory retrieving from an FBO information database fuel price information associated with a plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports rendering the flight trajectory and the plurality of refueling airports on an aeronautical geospatial map using information from an aeronautical geospatial mapping information database and displaying the fuel price information associated with the plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports for use in compiling a fuel route plan.

According to one implementation the method further includes receiving an aircraft range indicating a maximum distance that the aircraft can safely fly determining a determined refueling airport from the plurality of refueling airports based on the aircraft range and displaying the determined refueling airport on the aeronautical geospatial map.

The method may also include displaying on the aeronautical geospatial map alternate airports within a predetermined range of the determined refueling airport retrieving from the FBO information database fuel price information associated with FBOs located at the alternate airports and displaying the fuel price information associated with the FBOs located at the alternate airports. Displaying the fuel price information associated with the FBOs located at the alternate airports may include displaying a list of the FBOs sorted by the fuel price information to aid identification of an FBO having a least expensive fuel price. Still further the method may include receiving a selection of one of the alternate airports and substituting in the fuel route plan the one of the alternate airports for the refueling airport. The destination airport may be the refueling airport.

The method may further include displaying on the aeronautical geospatial map additional airports within a predetermined range of a selected set of coordinates retrieving from the FBO information database fuel price information associated with FBOs located at the additional airports and displaying the fuel price information associated with the FBOs located at the additional airports. Displaying the fuel price information associated with the FBOs located at the additional airports may include displaying a list of the FBOs sorted by the fuel price information to aid identification of an FBO having a least expensive fuel price. The method may further include receiving a selection of one of the additional airports and adding the one of the additional airports to the fuel route plan.

According to another implementation the method further includes determining a fuel target area within which the aircraft must refuel to reach the destination airport. Determining the fuel target area may include determining a fuel corridor having boundaries based on a lateral deviation value from the flight trajectory if a distance between the origin airport and the destination airport is less than twice the aircraft range then determining the fuel target area as being within the fuel corridor and bounded by a first distance limit based on the aircraft range from the origin airport and a second distance limit based on the aircraft range from the destination airport and if the distance between the origin airport and the destination airport is greater than or equal to twice the aircraft range then determining the fuel target area as being within the fuel corridor and bounded by the origin airport and the first distance limit based on the aircraft range from the origin airport making an airport of an FBO selected for refueling a new origin airport and repeating until the destination airport is reached.

In accordance with yet another implementation the method includes obtaining a runway length requirement for the aircraft and filtering using the runway length requirement for the aircraft the plurality of refueling airports retrieved from the airport information database to include only refueling airports having a runway of sufficient length to accommodate the aircraft.

In yet another implementation the method includes obtaining a fuel type requirement for the aircraft and filtering using the fuel type requirement for the aircraft the plurality of refueling airports retrieved from the airport information database to include only refueling airports having an FBO having fuel of a required fuel type for the aircraft.

In still yet another implementation the method includes receiving from a plurality of FBOs fuel price information and saving the fuel price information from the plurality of FBOs in the FBO information database.

In accordance with yet another implementation the method includes communicating a fuel reservation to a selected FBO in response to receiving a request to make the fuel reservation at the selected FBO.

According to another aspect of the invention a system for fuel route planning includes a dispatch computer executing a dispatch user interface for interfacing with a fuel route plan user and a central server computer in communication with the dispatch computer through a network. The central server computer is for receiving from the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface an origin airport and a destination airport for a flight of an aircraft determining a flight trajectory between the origin airport and the destination airport retrieving from an airport information database a plurality of refueling airports located adjacent to the flight trajectory retrieving from an FBO information database fuel price information associated with a plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports presenting to the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface the flight trajectory and the plurality of refueling airports on an aeronautical geospatial map using information from an aeronautical geospatial mapping information database and displaying to the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface the fuel price information associated with the plurality of FBOs located at the plurality of refueling airports for use in compiling a fuel route plan.

In accordance with one implementation the central server computer is further for receiving from the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface an aircraft range indicating a maximum distance that the aircraft can safely fly determining a determined refueling airport from the plurality of refueling airports based on the aircraft range and displaying to the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface the determined refueling airport on the aeronautical geospatial map.

In accordance with another implementation the central server computer is further for receiving from the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface information to determine a runway length requirement for the aircraft and filtering using the runway length requirement for the aircraft the plurality of refueling airports retrieved from the airport information database to include only refueling airports having a runway of sufficient length to accommodate the aircraft.

In accordance with yet another implementation the central server computer is further for receiving from the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface a fuel type requirement for the aircraft and filtering using the fuel type requirement for the aircraft the plurality of refueling airports retrieved from the airport information database to include only refueling airports having an FBO having fuel of a required fuel type for the aircraft.

In accordance with still yet another implementation the system further includes an FBO computer at each FBO each FBO computer in communication with the central server computer through the network and executing an FBO user interface for interfacing with a respective FBO user. In this configuration the central server computer is further for receiving from each respective FBO user via a respective FBO user interface fuel price information and saving the fuel price information in the FBO information database.

In accordance with a further implementation the central server computer is further for receiving from the fuel route plan user via the dispatch user interface a request to make a fuel reservation with a selected qualified FBO and communicating the request to make the fuel reservation to the selected qualified FBO.

In communication with the central server computer are an airport information database for storing airport information such as airport locations and lengths of available runways an FBO information database for storing FBO information such as fuel types prices and inventories and an aeronautical geospatial mapping information database for storing aeronautical geospatial mapping information for rendering maps. Of course any or all of the airport information database the FBO information database and the aeronautical geospatial mapping information database can be combined into a combined database without departing from the spirit or the scope of the claimed invention.

The central server computer is configured to execute instructions that cause the central server computer to perform processes operations and actions of fuel route planning as described below. The central server computer is further in communication with a temporary memory buffer which stores intermediate results and values.

The dispatch computer is used by pilots dispatchers or flight planners to create a fuel route plan. The dispatch computer executes an application such as a web browser that serves as a dispatch user interface to the fuel route planning processes operations and actions that are performed by the central server computer .

The FBO computer is used by FBO managers to report fuel prices and fuel inventories. The FBO computer executes an application such as a web browser that serves as an FBO user interface for a user such as an FBO manager to report fuel price information and levels of inventory to the central server computer . The fuel price information and levels of inventory are stored in the FBO information database .

The exemplary system further includes an official airport information database accessible through the network which stores official airport information sanctioned by the Federal Aviation Administration. Periodically the central server computer queries the official airport information database for updates of airport information and stores those updates in the airport information database .

The exemplary system further includes an official aeronautical geospatial maps database which stores official aeronautical geospatial maps sanctioned by the Federal Aviation Administration. Periodically the central server computer queries the official aeronautical geospatial maps database for updates to the official aeronautical geospatial mapping information and stores those updates in the aeronautical geospatial mapping information database .

Advantageously the aircraft range is used by the exemplary system in determining a determined refueling airport from the plurality of refueling airports based on the aircraft range and displaying the determined refueling airport on the aeronautical geospatial map.

In one embodiment determining a fuel target area within which the aircraft must refuel to reach the destination airport includes determining the determined refueling airport to be the airport that is the closest to the aircraft range from the origin airport without exceeding the aircraft range and repeating until the desired destination airport is reached.

In another embodiment determining a fuel target area within which the aircraft must refuel to reach the destination airport includes determining a fuel corridor having boundaries based on a lateral deviation value from the flight trajectory. If a distance between the origin airport and the destination airport is less than twice the aircraft range then determining the fuel target area as being within the fuel corridor and bounded by a first distance limit based on the aircraft range from the origin airport and a second distance limit based on the aircraft range from the destination airport. However if the distance between the origin airport and the destination airport is greater than or equal to twice the aircraft range then determining the fuel target area as being within the fuel corridor and bounded by the origin airport and the first distance limit based on the aircraft range from the origin airport making an airport of an FBO selected for refueling a new origin airport and repeating until the destination airport is reached.

Returning now to if the distance between the origin airport and the destination airport is more than twice the aircraft range multiple fuel target areas need to be established. In this event the fuel target area algorithm determines the first fuel target area as being from the origin airport to the first distance limit . Once the user selects a refueling airport that airport is then set as the origin airport and the process is repeated until the destination airport is reached i.e. the final leg has been processed .

Once the user has selected the FBOs all information is available to compile or prepare a fuel route plan. The fuel route plan is electronically stored for later referral or printed so that a pilot can use it in flight. Further once the fuel route plan is complete the central server computer can reserve fuel at the selected FBO s by communicating a fuel reservation to the FBO computer s to reserve the appropriate amount s of fuel at the date and time specified. This guarantees the availability of the fuel and locks in a price. The exemplary system as described herein electronically interfaces with a computerized inventory management system at the FBO.

From the perspective of the flight department the flight department is always resident at an airport . A resident or home airport may be used as a default origin airport. Not all airports have a resident flight department . A flight department schedules flights . Each flight requires an aircraft one or more pilots and a departure time . Each aircraft has one or more fuel tanks . Each of the tanks has a maximum capacity and an amount of fuel on board .

Each aircraft can use only one fuel type which is used in filtering FBOs that do not carry the required fuel type . Each aircraft has a range which is based in part on the fuel on board . The range is used to establish the fuel target area as explained above. Each aircraft also has a minimum landing and take off distance which is based in part on the fuel on board . The minimum landing and take off distance is an essential determinant for selecting airports as the runway length needs to exceed minimum landing and take off distance . Each aircraft also has a unique tail number . As the tail number is associated with a single aircraft all properties of the aircraft can be derived from the tail number . For example by selecting the tail number from a list of aircraft setup for a flight department many of the parameters can be automatically populated with a default value.

From the perspective of the FBO the FBO is also always resident at an airport . Although an airport can have multiple FBOs not all airports have an FBO . Each airport has a specific location as defined by its latitude and longitude on a map . In aviation the type of map can be a geospatial map a sectional map an aeronautical map or a weather map. Each airport has one or more runways each with a specific runway length .

Most FBOs sell one or more fuel types . Typical fuel types are JetA and 100 LL. Each of these types of fuel has a price which is frequently updated. Each fuel type can be stored on a truck or in on site tanks . The FBO keeps track of the amount in inventory on the truck and the amount of inventory in the tanks .

In addition to fuel FBOs also offer other services that are relevant and essential to operating an aircraft . Services include catering rental cars interior detailing maintenance and repair and pilot lounges.

FBOs may or may not accept certain fuel cards . These fuel cards offer fuel discounts and other benefits that affect the economics of running a flight department . FBOs may be filtered based on services provided and fuel cards accepted.

The system of the present invention can be developed using the Microsoft platform using SQL databases ASP.NET JavaScript and AJAX to create an easy to use highly interactive user experience. The aeronautical geospatial maps can be from the FAA Microsoft Virtual Earth or Google Maps each with its own Application Programming Interface API .

JavaScript allows for object oriented design and creates dynamic code that is fast and flexible. The JavaScript can employ an event tracker that reacts as needed to the changing environment.

The ASP.NET C programming environment can be used as a highly customized query environment utilizing many aspects of .NET to optimize execution speed.

With the advent of broadband technology growing globally applications running real time functions can be developed further. Programming in ASP.NET technology with the use of geospatial mapping is a feasible plan for the use of the Internet.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Further for the purposes of this disclosure and unless otherwise specified a or an means one or more . The exemplary embodiments may be implemented as a process machine or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed embodiments.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention and as practical applications of the invention to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

