---

title: Lactam-substituted dicarboxylic acids and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel lactam-substituted dicarboxylic acid derivatives, processes for their preparation, their use for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, especially for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08217063&OS=08217063&RS=08217063
owner: Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
number: 08217063
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080315
---
The present application relates to novel lactam substituted dicarboxylic acid derivatives processes for their preparation their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the heme group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron center of the heme group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a heme dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the heme group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of heme free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO heme adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin IX to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the heme containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but heme dependent stimulator YC 1 described above M lsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the heme containing and the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a heme independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the heme containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ Schmidt et al. 116 2006 2552 Stasch et al. 5 2006 755 .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leucotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

This object is achieved by the compounds described in the present invention. These compounds differ structurally in comparison with the compounds of the prior art by a 3 carboxybenzyl or 3 carboxyphenethyl 5 phenylpent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid core structure combined with a lactam or lactam like side chain.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methyl morpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

 C C Alkyl and C C alkyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl 1 ethylpropyl n pentyl and n hexyl.

 C C Alkanediyl and C C alkanediyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkyl radical having respectively 2 to 6 and 2 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkanediyl radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethane 1 2 diyl 1 2 ethylene ethane 1 1 diyl propane 1 3 diyl 1 3 propylene propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl butane 1 4 diyl 1 4 butylene butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl butane 2 3 diyl pentane 1 5 diyl 1 5 pentylene pentane 2 4 diyl 3 methylpentane 2 4 diyl and hexane 1 6 diyl 1 6 hexylene .

 C C Alkenediyl and C C alkenediyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkenyl radical having respectively 2 to 6 and 2 to 4 carbon atoms and up to 2 double bonds. A straight chain alkenediyl radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and one double bond is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethene 1 1 diyl ethene 1 2 diyl propene 1 1 diyl propene 1 2 diyl propene 1 3 diyl but 1 ene 1 4 diyl but 1 ene 1 3 diyl but 2 ene 1 4 diyl buta 1 3 diene 1 4 diyl pent 2 ene 1 5 diyl hex 3 ene 1 6 diyl and hexa 2 4 diene 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkynediyl and C C alkynediyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkynyl radical having respectively 2 to 6 and 2 to 4 carbon atoms and up to 2 triple bonds. A straight chain alkynediyl radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and one triple bond is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethyne 1 2 diyl propyne 1 3 diyl but 1 yne 1 4 diyl but 1 yne 1 3 diyl but 2 yne 1 4 diyl pent 2 yne 1 5 diyl pent 2 yne 1 4 diyl and hex 3 yne 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkoxy and C C alkoxy are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy and n hexoxy.

 C C Alkoxycarbonyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which is attached via a carbonyl group. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl n propoxycarbonyl iso propoxycarbonyl and tert butoxycarbonyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine fluorine or bromine are preferred particularly preferably fluorine or chlorine.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

If a radical in the compounds according to the invention can be polysubstituted by fluorine this includes in the context of the present invention a perfluoro substitution.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

Very particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds of the invention of the formula I characterized in that compounds of the formula II 

Examples of inert solvents for process steps II III A IV A and II III B IV B are ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or mixtures of these solvents. Preference is given to using a mixture of tetrahydrofuran and hexane.

Suitable bases for these reaction steps are the bases customary for Wittig reactions. These include in particular strong bases such as n sec or tert butyllithium lithium diisopropylamide LDA or lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide. Preference is given to n butyllithium.

The reactions II III A IV A and II III B IV B are generally carried out in a temperature range from 78 C. to 20 C. preferably from 20 C. to 10 C.

Any cis trans mixtures of the compound IV A obtained if appropriate in the reaction II III A IV A may be separated at this stage or at the subsequent stage of the compound I by customary methods for example by chromatography. The reaction II III B IV B is usually trans selective.

Examples of inert solvents for process step IV B V IV C are ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or other solvents such as acetonitrile dimethylformamide dimethyl sulfoxide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is also possible to employ mixtures of said solvents. Preference is given to using acetonitrile dimethylformamide dioxane or toluene.

Suitable bases for this reaction step are in particular sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or cesium carbonate sodium hydride or potassium hydride lithium diisopropylamide or n butyllithium. Preference is given to using potassium carbonate cesium carbonate or sodium hydride.

The reaction IV B V IV C is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 150 C. preferably from 50 C. to 120 C.

Hydrolysis of the ester groups Tand Tin process steps IV A I and IV C I takes place by conventional methods by treating the esters in inert solvents with acids or bases and with the latter converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. The ester cleavage in the case of tert butyl esters preferably takes place with acids.

In the case of two different groups Tand T the hydrolysis may if appropriate be carried out in a one pot reaction or in two separate reaction steps.

Inert solvents suitable for these reactions are water or the organic solvents usual for ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is also possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preferably mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are employed. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane is used and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium hydroxide lithium hydroxide potassium hydroxide or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or calcium carbonate. Use is particularly preferably made of sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide or lithium hydroxide.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid are preferred in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out under atmospheric pressure.

The aldehydes of the formula II can be prepared analogously to processes known from the literature for example by a double alkylation of diallyl malonate with compounds of the formulae VI and VII 

The compounds of the formulae III A and III B can be obtained by processes customary in the literature by reacting compounds of the formula X A or X B 

The compounds of the formulae V VI VII X A and X B are commercially available known from the literature or can be prepared analogously to processes known from the literature. The compounds of the formula X A can be obtained for example analogously to process step IV B V IV C by alkylating compounds of the formula X B in which Z represents hydroxyl with a compound of the formula V see Reaction Scheme 5 .

Separation of the compounds of the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds IV A IV B IV C or IX which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the described process sequences. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by conventional methods known to the skilled person chromatographic methods or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

The preparation of the compounds of the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

 Abbreviations Ac acetyl BH THF borane tetrahydrofuran complex Bu butyl DMF dimethylformamide PCC pyridinium chlorochromate Ph phenyl Q leaving group e.g. halogen THF tetrahydrofuran .

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transitory and ischemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequalae of cerebral infarctions Apoplexia cerebri such as stroke cerebral ischemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonary nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival optic route or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 2.5 min 30 3.0 min 5 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 0.2 min 100 2.9 min 30 A 3.1 min 10 A 5.5 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Merck Chromolith SpeedROD RP 18e 100 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase A water 500 l of 50 formic acid 1 mobile phase B acetonitrile 500 l of 50 formic acid 1 gradient 0.0 min 10 B 7.0 min 95 B 9.0 min 95 B flow rate 0.0 min 1.0 ml min 7.0 min 2.0 ml min 9.0 min 2.0 ml min oven 35 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 Series UV DAD column Phenomenex Gemini 3 30 mm 3.00 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Onyx Monolithic C18 100 mm 3 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2 min 65 A 4.5 min 5 A 6 min 5 A flow rate 2 ml min oven 40 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

MS instrument type Waters ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Onyx Monolithic C18 100 mm 3 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2 min 65 A 4.5 min 5 A 6 min 5 A flow rate 2 ml min oven 40 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2.5 MAX RP 100A Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A 4.01 min 90 A flow rate 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 mm 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 1.5 min 10 A 2.2 min 10 A flow rate 0.33 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m mobile phase A 5 ml of HClO 70 1 of water mobile phase B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m mobile phase A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water mobile phase B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

With exclusion of oxygen 27.1 g 159.28 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate are initially charged in 500 ml of dry THF and cooled to 0 C. With cooling 238 ml 238 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are then slowly added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then at RT overnight. After the reaction has gone to completion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the mixture is taken up in dichloromethane. The organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The crude product is purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gives 18.0 g 126.6 mmol 79 of theory of a colorless solid.

18.6 g 130.87 mmol of 4 fluoro 2 hydroxymethyl phenol and 42.67 g 124.32 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide in 186 ml of acetonitrile are stirred under reflux for 3 h. After cooling the precipitate formed is filtered off and dried. This gives 58 g 124 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound.

70 g 352.4 mmol of methyl 4 2 chloroethyl benzoate CAS Reg. No. 65787 72 6 and 146.2 g 880.9 mmol of potassium iodide are suspended in 800 ml of acetonitrile and stirred under reflux for three days. After the reaction has gone to completion the reaction solution is cooled and filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 30 1 20 1 . This gives 101 g 348.3 mmol 98.8 of theory of a yellowish oil.

At room temperature 61.9 g 190.02 mmol of cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 10 g 54.3 mmol of diallyl malonate and 47.25 g purity 80 130.3 mmol of methyl 4 2 iodoethyl benzoate in 100 ml of DMF and the mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction has gone to completion the reaction solution is evaporated to dryness and the residue is taken up in 100 ml of water and 100 ml of diethyl ether. The aqueous phase is extracted five times with diethyl ether and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over magnesium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed under reduced pressure and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 5 1 . This gives 22.64 g 44.52 mmol 82 of theory of a yellowish oil.

At room temperature a solution of 20.48 ml 146.9 mmol of triethylamine and 4.2 ml 111.29 mmol of formic acid in 50 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 22.64 g 44.52 mmol of diallyl bis2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylmalonate 0.82 g 3.12 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 200 mg of palladium acetate in 250 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. overnight. After the reaction has gone to completion the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The residue obtained is taken up in water and ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over magnesium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed under reduced pressure and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 10.4 g 27.1 mmol 61 of theory of a colorless solid.

At 10 C. 54.1 ml 54.1 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 10.4 g 27.1 mmol of 4 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylbutanoic acid in 260 ml of THF. The reaction mixture is then warmed to 0 C. and stirred at this temperature for 4 h. After the reaction has gone to completion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added the reaction mixture is diluted with water and ethyl acetate and the aqueous phase is extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and freed from the solvent under reduced pressure. This gives 8.73 g 23.56 mmol 87 of theory of a colorless oil.

6.1 g 28.3 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 8.73 g 23.6 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 3 hydroxymethyl pentane 1 5 diyl dibenzoate in 280 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 h. After the reaction has gone to completion about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 7.08 g 19.22 mmol 81.5 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 2.95 ml 7.39 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 1479 mg 3.2 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide in 40 ml of THF. The reaction mixture is stirred at this temperature for 45 min. At 0 C. 1080 mg 2.64 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 3 formylpentane 1 5 diyl dibenzoate in 10 ml of THF are metered in slowly. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 5 h saturated ammonium chloride solution is then added and the mixture is diluted with water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is extracted two more times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and filtered and the solvent is removed to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 529 mg 1.11 mmol 42 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 2.95 ml 7.39 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 1422 mg 3.2 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide in 40 ml of THF. The reaction mixture is stirred at this temperature for 45 min. At 0 C. 1080 mg 2.64 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 3 formylpentane 1 5 diyl dibenzoate in 10 ml of THF are then metered in slowly. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 5 h saturated ammonium chloride solution is then added and the mixture is diluted with water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is extracted two more times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and filtered and the solvent is removed to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 169 mg 0.37 mmol 14 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 14.42 g 0.36 mol of sodium hydride are added a little at a time caution evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 56.7 g 0.3 mol of diallyl malonate in 375 ml of dioxane and 75 ml of THF. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 h. 111.88 g 0.6 mol of methyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 375 ml of dioxane are then slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is then stirred at 110 C. bath temperature overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Here it has to be made sure that the pH

At room temperature 62.66 g 192 mmol of cesium carbonate and 46.75 g 154 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS Reg. No. 136333 97 6 are added to a solution of 42.61 g 128 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate in 450 ml of DMF. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction has gone to completion the reaction solution is evaporated to dryness and the residue is taken up in water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are then washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 13 1 . This gives 41.35 g 83.6 mmol 65 of theory of a colorless solid.

At room temperature a solution of 37.2 ml 267 mmol of triethylamine and 7.6 ml 202 mmol of formic acid in 100 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 40 g 80.9 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylmalonate 1.49 g 5.67 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 363 mg of palladium acetate in 500 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 110 C. overnight. After the reaction has gone to completion the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The residue obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 20.98 g 56.6 mmol 70 of theory of a colorless solid.

At 10 C. 112.8 ml 112.8 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 20.9 g 56.4 mmol of 2 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 4 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl butanoic acid in 600 ml of THF. The reaction mixture is then warmed to 0 C. and stirred at this temperature for 4 h. After the reaction has gone to completion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added the reaction mixture is diluted with water and ethyl acetate the phases are separated and the aqueous phase is re extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration freed from the solvent under reduced pressure. This gives 20.11 g purity 94 100 of theory of a colorless solid.

13.07 g 60.6 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 18.02 g 50.5 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 2 hydroxymethyl butane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate in 350 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After the reaction has gone to completion about 60 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 4 1 . This gives 14.73 g 41.46 mmol 82 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 21.65 ml 54.12 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 10.84 g 23.2 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide in 150 ml of THF and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 45 min. At this temperature 6.85 g 19.33 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 2 formylbutane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate in 100 ml of THF are then metered in slowly. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 3 h saturated ammonium chloride solution is then added the mixture is diluted with water and ethyl acetate the organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is re extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and filtered and the solvent is removed to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 8.21 g 17.75 mmol 76 of theory of a yellowish oil.

146 mg 0.91 mmol of 1 3 chloropropyl pyrrolidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 91152 30 6 and 295 mg 0.91 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 215 mg 0.45 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of dry DMF and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 165 mg purity 93 0.25 mmol 56 of theory of a colorless oil.

119 mg 0.74 mmol of 1 3 chloropropyl pyrrolidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 91152 30 6 and 240 mg 0.74 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 169 mg 0.37 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 2.5 ml of dry DMF and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 169 mg purity 94 0.27 mmol 74 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 21.65 ml 54.1 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are added slowly to a solution of 10.42 g 23.2 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide in 150 ml of anhydrous THF. At this temperature 6.85 g 19.3 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 2 formylbutane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate dissolved in 50 ml of THF are metered in slowly and the mixture is stirred for 3 h. A little water is then added and the reaction solution is evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness and the crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 7.54 g 16.96 mmol 73 of theory of a colorless solid.

7.24 g 16.3 mmol of the racemic methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxy carbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate obtained in this manner are separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. This gives in each case enantiomerically pure 3.29 g and 3.03 g respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 19A and 20A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 65 35 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

2.33 g 14.4 mmol of 1 3 chloropropyl pyrrolidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 91152 30 6 and 4.69 g 14.4 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 3.2 g 7.2 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate enantiomer 1 Example 19A in 50 ml of dry dioxane and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 2 1 1 1 . This gives 2.98 g 5.23 mmol 72 of theory of a colorless oil.

1.69 g 8.37 mmol of 1 3 dibromopropane 180 mg 0.56 mmol of tetrabutylammonium bromide and 3.85 g 27.9 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 1.24 g 2.79 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate enantiomer 1 Example 19A in 23 ml of dry toluene and the mixture is then stirred at 110 C. for 24 h. Another 1.69 g 8.37 mmol of 1 3 dibromopropane are then added and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for a further 24 h. The mixture is then filtered through kieselguhr and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . This gives 0.650 g 1.15 mmol 41.2 of theory of a colorless oil.

A solution of 0.175 g 1.73 mmol of morpholin 3 one CAS Reg. No. 109 11 5 is initially charged in 6 ml of dry DMF and 71 mg 1.78 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 0.28 g 0.495 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 3 bromopropoxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate Example 22A in 3 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 50 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 0.29 g 0.495 mmol 100 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification.

0.27 g 1.35 mmol of 1 3 dibromopropane 29 mg 0.089 mmol of tetrabutylammonium bromide and 0.62 g 4.5 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 0.2 g 0.45 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 18A in 4 ml of dry toluene and the mixture is then stirred at 110 C. for a further 24 h. Another 0.27 g 1.35 mmol of 1 3 dibromopropane are then added and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for a further 24 h. The mixture is then filtered through kieselguhr and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . This gives 0.155 g 0.274 mmol 60.9 of theory of a colorless oil.

A solution of 0.124 g 1.42 mmol of 1 3 oxazolidin 2 one is initially charged in 3.5 ml of dry DMF and 58.6 mg 1.46 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 230 mg 0.407 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 3 bromopropoxy phenyl 3 4 methoxy carbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate Example 24A in 3 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 50 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 0.13 g 0.227 mmol 55.9 of theory of a colorless oil.

130 mg 0.227 mmol of the racemic methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 3 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl propoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate obtained in this manner are separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. This gives enantiomerically pure in each case 35 mg of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 26A and 27A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

0.10 g 0.622 mmol of 1 3 chloropropyl pyrrolidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 91152 30 6 and 0.338 g 1.04 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 0.3 g 0.52 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate racemate in 10 ml of dry dioxane isopropanol 2 1 v v and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 18 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 0.13 g 0.22 mmol 42.7 of theory of a colorless oil.

60 mg 0.102 mmol of the racemic methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate obtained in this manner are separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. This gives in each case enantiomerically pure 12.0 mg and 10.0 mg respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 29A and 30A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 55 45 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 35 C.

1.54 g 9.0 mmol of 1 bromo 4 chlorobutane CAS Reg. No. 6940 78 9 and 7.33 g 22.5 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 1.0 g 2.25 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 18A in 15 ml of dry toluene and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 18 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the organic phase dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product is then purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . This gives 0.850 g 1.59 mmol 70.6 of theory of a colorless oil.

1.84 g 9.9 mmol of 1 bromo 5 chloropentane CAS Reg. No. 586 78 7 and 6.45 g 19.8 mmol of anhydrous cesium carbonate are added to a solution of 1.1 g 2.47 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 18A in 16.5 ml of dry toluene and the mixture is then stirred at 60 C. for 18 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product is then purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . This gives 1.00 g 1.82 mmol 73.6 of theory of a colorless oil.

A solution of 16.7 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 oxazolidinone CAS Reg. No. 497 25 6 is initially charged in 1.0 ml of dry DMF and 7.9 mg 0.196 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 30 mg 0.055 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 5 chloropentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 32A in 0.5 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 5 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 25 mg 0.042 mmol 76 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification.

A solution of 66 mg 0.57 mmol of 2 methylmorpholin 3 one CAS Reg. No. 100636 23 5 is initially charged in 4.5 ml of dry DMF and 23.6 mg 0.196 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 90 mg 0.163 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 5 chloropentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 32A in 1.5 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 15 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 103 mg 0.57 mmol 100 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification.

A solution of 36.4 mg 0.319 mmol of 1 methyltetrahydropyrimidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 10166 54 8 is initially charged in 1.5 ml of dry DMF and 13.1 mg 0.328 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 50 mg 0.091 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 5 chloropentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 32A in 1.5 ml of dry DMF is added. This is followed by the addition of 1.5 mg 0.9 mol of potassium iodide. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 15 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 47 mg 0.075 mmol 82 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification.

A solution of 16.7 mg 0.196 mmol of pyrrolidin 2 one CAS Reg. No. 616 45 5 are initially charged in 1.0 ml of dry DMF and 8 mg 0.201 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 30 mg 0.056 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 chlorobutoxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 31A in 0.5 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 15 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 19 mg 32.5 mol 58 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification.

A solution of 82.0 mg 0.288 mmol of 2 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate CAS Reg. No. 159974 55 7 is initially charged in 1.5 ml of dry toluene and 187 mg 0.576 mmol of cesium carbonate are added. 32 mg 0.072 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 hydroxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 18A are then added. The reaction mixture is stirred at 60 C. for 18 h and then carefully poured into 15 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. This gives 39 mg 0.070 mmol 97 of theory of a colorless oil which is reacted without further purification

18 mg 0.75 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 150 mg 0.25 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy phenyl 3 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified directly by preparative HPLC. This gives 130 mg content 96 0.22 mmol 87 of theory of the title compound.

18.5 mg 0.75 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 150 mg 0.26 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethyl 5 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified directly by preparative HPLC. This gives 104 mg content 97 0.18 mmol 71 of theory of the title compound.

492 mg 20.5 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 3.90 g 6.8 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 21A in 20 ml of THF and 20 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. The mixture is then cooled and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The latter organic phases are combined washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed to dryness. This gives 2.75 g content 98 4.98 mmol 73 of theory of the title compound as a colorless solid.

66.6 mg 1.59 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 0.31 g 0.53 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 3 3 oxomorpholin 4 yl propoxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 23A in 2 ml of THF and 2 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 18 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed to dryness and the crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 89.5 mg 0.16 mmol 30.3 of theory of the title compound as a colorless solid.

81.5 mg 1.94 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 370 mg 0.647 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 3 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl propoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 26A in 2 ml of THF and 2 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 18 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed to dryness and the crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 114 mg 0.210 mmol 32.4 of theory of the title compound as a colorless solid.

2.57 mg 61.3 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 12 mg 10.4 mol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 3 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl propoxy phenyl 3 4 methoxy carbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate Example 29A in 0.3 ml of THF and 0.3 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 5.0 mg 8.93 mol 43.8 of theory of the title compound.

A solution of 19.0 mg 0.191 mmol of 2 piperidinone CAS Reg. No. 675 20 7 is initially charged in 1.0 ml of dry DMF and 7.9 mg 0.197 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in paraffin oil are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 45 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 30 mg 0.056 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 5 chloro pentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate racemate Example 32A in 1.5 ml of dry DMF is added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction solution is then carefully poured into 15 ml of ice cold 10 strength ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 1.9 mg 3.25 mol 6.0 of theory of the title compound.

8.75 mg 208 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 25 mg 41.7 mol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 5 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl pentyl oxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 33A in 0.5 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 1.5 mg 2.62 mol 6.3 of theory of the title compound.

33.6 mg 800 mol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 100.4 mg 160 mol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 5 2 methyl 3 oxomorpholin 4 yl pentyl oxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 34A in 1.0 ml of THF and 1.0 ml of 2 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 17.7 mg 29.5 mol 18.5 of theory of the title compound.

31.5 mg 750 mol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 47 mg 160 mol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 5 3 methyl 2 oxotetrahydro pyrimidin 1 2H yl pentyl oxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 35A in 1.0 ml of THF and 1.0 ml of 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 4.2 mg 7.0 mol 9.4 of theory of the title compound.

13.7 mg 325 mol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 19 mg 32.5 mol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 4 2 oxopyrrolidin 1 yl butoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 36A in 0.5 ml of dioxane and 0.5 ml of 2 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 1.8 mg 3.2 mol 10.0 of theory of the title compound.

44.1 mg 1.05 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate are added to a solution of 39 mg 70 mol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 2 2 oxo 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl ethoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate Example 37A in 0.5 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 5.3 mg 10 mol 14.3 of theory of the title compound.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 3 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 3 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

The cellular action of the compounds according to the invention is determined using a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

