---

title: Method and system for notifying error information in a network
abstract: Method and application server for providing an asynchronous error notification from an application server to an application server controller in a network is provided. The method at the application server includes generating an error message when an error occurs at/during Open Service Gateway initiative (OSGi) framework runtime. The method also includes converting the error message as a Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) event. Moreover, the method includes providing the UPnP event comprising error information to the application server controller. The application server includes a receiver configured to receive a command from an application server controller to install an application in an Open Service Gateway initiative (OSGi) framework available at the application server. The application server also includes a processor configured to generate an error message when an error occurs during installation of the application in the framework and convert the error message as a Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) event. Moreover, the application server includes a transmitter configured to provide the UPnP event comprising the error information to the application server controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08683273&OS=08683273&RS=08683273
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08683273
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20081119
---
The present invention relates to notifying error information in a network. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for providing an asynchronous error notification from an application server to an application server controller.

An application server controller can install applications in an application server which is having an Open Service Gateway initiative OSGi framework as the execution environment. The application server controller can install applications in the application server via a network. Some examples of the network include Local Area Network LAN Wireless LAN WLAN . At any time during execution of the application or runtime of the OSGi framework some error can occur at the application server. Errors occurring at the application server can be generated as framework exceptions exceptions. Some examples of these exceptions include BundleException InvalidSyntaxException and DeploymentException. The errors that occurs at the application server needs to be reported to the application server controller. This helps the application server controller to take necessary actions and to stop sending unnecessary network messages to the application in the application server .

In light of the above discussion there is a need of a method and system for providing an asynchronous error notification from an application server to an application server controller.

In an embodiment a method for providing an asynchronous error notification from an application server to an application server controller in a network is provided. The method at the application server includes generating an error message when an error occurs during Open Service Gateway initiative OSGi framework runtime or execution of an application . The method also includes converting the error message as a Universal Plug and Play UPnP event. Moreover the method includes providing the UPnP event comprising error information to the application server controller. In an embodiment the error is associated with an exception in the OSGi framework. Examples of the exception include but are not limited to BundleException InvalidSyntaxException DeploymentException Input Output IO exception security exception MalformedURLException RuntimeException IllegalStateException and IllegalArgumentException.

In another embodiment an application server is provided. The application server includes a receiver configured to receive a command from an application server controller to install an application in an Open Service Gateway initiative OSGi framework available at the application server. The application server also includes a processor configured to generate an error message when an error occurs during OSGi framework runtime or execution of an application and convert the error message as an Universal Plug and Play UPnP event. Moreover the application server includes a transmitter configured to provide the UPnP event comprising the error information to the application server controller. In an embodiment the application server also includes a receiver configured to receive a Universal Resource Locator URL of the application server controller.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the ensuing detailed description of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The terms used to describe various embodiments are exemplary. It should be understood that these are provided to merely aid the understanding of the description and that their use and definitions in no way limit the scope of the invention.

The application server controller can install an application on application server . To install an application application server controller sends an install action message command to the application server . The install action message is received by an application handler in the application server . The application handler generates a message indicating specified actions to be performed by an Open Service Gateway initiative OSGi framework present in the application server in response to the install action message . The application server supports different actions like install start stop update and uninstall. The action message can be a Hyper Text Type Protocol HTTP request to a particular Universal Resource Locator URL given in a service description. This action message expects a response.

The OSGi framework generates an action response in response to the message . The action response is the response to the HTTP request. It contains the information about the success or failure of the HTTP request for example the action message. The OSGi framework can also generate an error message if an error occurs during execution of the application . For example the OSGi framework can generate an error message when an error occurs during installation of the application . The error occurring during the execution of an application in the OSGi framework can be generated as a framework exception or a Java exception. Examples of the exceptions include but are not limited to BundleException InvalidSyntaxException DeploymentException Input Output IO exception security exception MalformedURLException RuntimeException IllegalStateException and IllegalArgumentException. These exceptions are then provided to the application server controller by the application server . In an embodiment an install response can also be provided to the application server controller . The install response is the response to the HTTP request. It contains the information about the success or failure of the HTTP request for example the install message. The functionalities of the application server is explained in detail with .

The application server includes a receiver a processor and a transmitter . The receiver is configured to receive a command from the application server controller to install an application in the OSGi framework available at the application server . The OSGi framework provides an execution environment to the application . The processor is configured to generate an error message when an error occurs during the OSGi framework runtime or execution of the application . The processor is also configured to convert the error message as a Universal Plug and Play UPnP event. The processor provides the UPnP event to the transmitter . The transmitter is configured to provide the UPnP event comprising the error information to the application server controller . In an embodiment the transmitter uses URL of the application server controller to send the UPnP event the asynchronous error notification to the application server controller . In this embodiment the receiver is also configured to receive the URL of the application server controller along with the install command. The process of providing an asynchronous error notification from the application server to the application server controller will be explained with the help of .

A BundleException indicates an error that occurs in a Bundle Implementation. For example BundleException can be generated by the OSGi framework to denote an exception condition in a lifecycle of the bundle. An InvalidSyntaxException indicates an error in the syntax of the commands given to the OSGi Framework. A DeploymentException indicates occurrence of a deployment failure of a deployment package. A DeploymentException includes an error code and may contain the textual description of the error condition. An IOException indicates an exceptional condition occurring in the OSGi framework while processing the input or output in OSGi framework . A SecurityException indicating one or more callers does not have an appropriate permission. A MalformedURLException indicates that a URL parameter passed to the OSGi framework is invalid. A RuntimeException indicates exceptions from the Java Virtual Machine JVM runtime. It can occur when there is any error generated by the bundles.

At step the error message is converted as a Universal Plug and Play UPnP event. The error message is converted to the UPnP event as the application server controller and other controllers may be a UPnP device. The conversion of the error message as the UPnP event enables the application server controller to interpret the error message. At step the UPnP event comprising error information is provided to the application server controller . The error information UPnP event can be provided to the application server controller by using a Universal Resource Locator URL of the application server controller present in the application . The UPnP event can be provided to the application server controller with help of a UPnP eventing protocol stack. A UPnP eventing protocol stack is explained with the help of .

Various embodiments of the present invention as described above provide the following advantages. The present invention provides a technique which enables an application server to provide information related to an error that occurs at the application server side to an application server controller. The present invention also enables the application server to convert the error notification as an UPnP event before the error notification is provided to the application server controller. The error notification of the present invention enables the application server controller to take necessary actions when an error occurs at the application server side. For example the application controller will stop sending unnecessary messages to the application server when an error has occurred at the application server. Further application server controller can re search for an alternative application server when an error occurs at the application server side.

While the embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it will be clear that the present invention and its advantages are not limited to these embodiments only. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as described in the claims.

