---

title: System and method for enhanced broadcasting and interactive television
abstract: An enhanced interactive television broadcast is disclosed wherein an audio/video broadcast is viewed on a first display system, and an “enhancement” to the broadcast is simultaneously viewed or experienced on a second, separate display system. The “enhancement” is synchronized to the broadcast, and delivered to a user as a code fragments, such as a JavaScript message. URLs are not required. Portions or elements of a web page are reduced to single code fragments, rendered client-side upon receipt. The invention implements Network Time Protocol (NTP) to synchronize the client's application clock to global time. Messages, or JavaScript code fragments, are time-stamped and evaluated based on the client's application clock.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07634798&OS=07634798&RS=07634798
owner: The Walt Disney Company
number: 07634798
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080307
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 706 055 entitled System and Method for Enhanced Broadcasting and Interactive Television filed on Nov. 3 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 409 700 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Television has long been enjoyed in our society as a means for delivering information for the enhancement of knowledge as well as for delivering content with entertainment value. In all of its uses however television has remained a one way experience for the viewer wherein viewers do not have the opportunity or ability to interact with the content of a television broadcast. In fact television has in many cases been criticized for simply feeding broadcast material to viewers without requiring any thought participation or feedback from the viewers. For these reasons television is often regarded as having a deleterious effect on the development of children s communication skills and thought processes.

Television Journalist Edward R. Murrow said in TV Guide December 1958 This instrument can teach it can illuminate yes and it can even inspire. But it can do so only to the extent that humans are determined to use it to those ends. Otherwise it is merely light and wires in a box. Indeed nearly half a century later utilizing television for educational purposes continues to be an area to which much attention is focused. Many of today s television programs are geared toward educational purposes schools use televisions as educational tools and classes can even be taught television networks. Yet even with the all the effort to utilize television as an educational tool television remains a one way experience for a viewer continuing to charm couch potatoes the world over. The criticism remains that television dulls the mind through its inability to provide an interactive environment for viewers.

While television remains devoid of interactive experiences the potential of interaction between multiple persons has been greatly heightened in recent years due to the popularity of the Internet. The Internet provides a powerful network for exchanging content messages and user inputs enabling various users to achieve a level of interaction that was previously unknown. However this interaction is typically limited to individual instances making large broadcast interactive experiences impossible. The camaraderie generated by post broadcast discussions amongst viewers who witnessed the same show simply is not available to computer users who engage in unique interactive sessions not experienced by the number of users typically reached by a television broadcast. Furthermore this interaction has been constrained to the realm of computers and there remains a lack in the technology for providing systems which allow or support viewer interaction and participation in television programming.

Many recent prior art television based systems have attempted to address the need for interactivity between television and its viewers. U.S. Pat. No. 4 926 255 by Von Kohorn discloses a system wherein users can individually answer questions related to a television broadcast and receive information as to the accuracy of their answers. However Von Kohorn does not provide the ability for users to interact with one another during a television broadcast such as by competing against each other and receiving relative scores. Conversely the prior art system of U.S. Pat. No. 5 343 239 by Lappington et al. teaches a system that has the capability to store a plurality of audience scores at a central location. However Lappington requires each user to manually deliver his individual result to the central location and further fails to disclose a method for comparing the plurality of results for purposes of ranking or scoring the users relative to one another. Thus no direct interaction is available. U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 038 by Luxenberg et al. does disclose a system that enables remote users to compete relative to one another. However this system requires individual users to telephone a central system for entering their respective results and provides relative scoring for only a small statistically selected group of users.

Thus none of these prior art systems enables remote users to interact with or to compete with each other relative to a television program to receive relative scoring for the entire group of remote users or to receive relative scoring for any customized user selected subgroup of users. Furthermore none of these systems specifically provides for the integration of Web content with traditional television broadcasting.

More recently television integrated Web access has become known in the art. However these later systems generally continue to fail to provide interactive capabilities for the user to communicate with the content of the television program. These systems operate by controlling a user s web browser to automatically retrieve web pages during the time of a television broadcast. However these systems only deliver website addresses URLs to a user and do not allow for the involvement of the user in the broadcast content. They merely provide supplemental content to be read viewed or heard during a television broadcast. Consequently there is not currently a means for a television viewer to enjoy an interactive experience with the content and timeline of a television broadcast or with other viewers.

The invention seeks to provide television audiences with the possibility for viewer participation in a television broadcast through interaction with the broadcast content. The present invention utilizes a delivery network such as the Internet for delivering television broadcast enhancements to a viewer such that the viewer may not only watch a television program but also can participate in and enjoy a previously unknown interactive experience with the content and timeline of that program. The interaction of the present invention can either be driven exclusively client side or require client server interaction.

In the exclusively client side interaction feature of the present invention the user receives information from a broadcast and is not required to return information to a broadcaster or to any other remote location. Instead a custom software application is placed on the user s computer to act as an interface and to facilitate the interactive experience locally. Thus the interactivity occurs client side in contrast to prior art interactivity which requires users to interact directly with the server.

The client server interaction feature of the present invention does require users to communicate directly with the server. However this form of interaction enables users to alter content of a broadcast in progress. The client server interaction enables a broadcaster to utilize and respond to user input as by altering or creating broadcast content in direct response to users inputs to the server. For example users can participate in a football game as it is broadcast on television by providing predictions requests or suggestions to a broadcaster server computer during the television game broadcast. Producers broadcasters coaching staff or others involved with the football game will receive this users input consider it and be influenced to change the course of the game or the manner in which it is being broadcast. Thus users of systems of the present invention are provided with a venue for direct participation in live events as they are broadcast on television.

Embodiments of the present invention utilizing either form of interaction describe above both feature synchronized timing characteristics. The enhancements used to enhance television programming are related to the television broadcast content and are synchronized in time with the television broadcast. The resulting effect is one of interaction with the television broadcast in a realistic time sensitive setting.

Embodiments of the present invention also enable users to compete with each other either against the totality of all users or against only a subset of users. In the latter case the subset of users may be pre defined or alternatively may be customized and selected by one user.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from a reading of the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments thereof which illustrate the features and advantages of the invention in conjunction with references to the accompanying drawing Figures.

In the following description of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As used herein the term message may be used but is not limited to describe a segment of code that is received analyzed and rendered by a software application. In the exemplary embodiments described herein messages are embodied as code fragments. However it is to be understood that the invention is directed to messages in a broader sense wherein a message representing an enhancement can be any of a number of forms and is not limited to the exemplary code fragment embodiment. Unlike triggers which are used in Advanced TV Enhancement Forum ATVEF standard applications the code fragments of the present invention do not contain uniform resource locators URLs . In contrast the code fragments are specific instructions to an application or an Dynamic Hypertext Markup Language DHTML document resident and executable on a computer to which the code fragments are delivered. For example a software application may receive a code fragment written in JavaScript evaluate it using a resident JavaScript interpreter causing a side effect in the document object model DOM which causes the DHTML document to be re rendered within the HTML enabled browser. Essentially a screen display that is visually described by HTML code may have a portion of it change upon receipt of a code fragment that will cause replacement of only a portion of the entire screen s descriptive HTML code.

Additionally the term applets is used to describe small applications that are delivered from a server to a client over a computer network. Applets which may or may not be written in the Java computer language are resident and functional at the client side but typically cannot be run without a browser or an applet viewer.

As illustrated in one embodiment of the system of the present invention is employed by a broadcaster to deliver enhanced broadcasting to its audience . In the exemplary enhanced broadcasting system enhancements are delivered to users in the form of code fragments. The enhancements are designed to be correlated to content of television broadcasts. For example enhancements for a televised football game could involve descriptions of football players statistics strategy planning etc. for users at home. Enhancements for a televised quiz game show could involve quiz questions and scoring opportunities for users at home.

Enhancements are also correlated to television broadcasts with respect to time. In the case of pre recorded automatic playback an audio and video signal such as a television signal is synchronized to related enhancements served as code fragments with respect to a house clock The house clock is so named because it is utilized internally by the broadcaster to synchronize timing at both the broadcaster station and a broadcaster authoring system which is used to create code fragments . House clock is also used to synchronize a push server used to efficiently deliver code fragments from authoring system to a plurality of users . The house clock may be for example the Greenwich atomic clock a cesium oscillator or a GPS receiver all commonly used standards for precision time synchronization. While the description herein continues with references to house clock as utilized for pre recorded automatic playback it is to be understood that the present invention also may be used in the context of live broadcasts. In this case house clock is not used to synchronize client computer or authoring system . Instead code fragments are sent at the appropriate times relative to the live broadcast and interpreted at the client side as soon as possible. That is code fragments are sent and interpreted in real time concurrent with the live broadcast transmission.

Broadcaster authoring system is contemplated within the teachings of the present invention as being computer executable software that enables broadcaster to create code fragments for the purpose of enhancing the content of a particular broadcast. The software may include a word processor a programming compiler or other standard means of text entry. The software may also include communication with an external media player or include its own media player for the purpose of pre playing a broadcast to assist in the development of appropriate and related code fragments.

In accordance with the teachings of the present invention the software is automated such that a user of the authoring system can select a point in time during the broadcast indicate the preferred contents of the code fragment and instruct the software to automatically produce a line of code descriptive of the indicated contents and including a time stamp for linking to the selected point in time. Also the code fragments developed with the authoring system can be created and pushed down manually as is the case in a live broadcast scenario in which messages are developed and delivered in real time.

For ease of use the broadcast authoring software features the use of templates. Templates capture the structure of a message having data fields representing each component portion of the message. Certain fields are pre defined and the additional fields are filled in by the authoring system as a user supplies the necessary information. Authoring system then extracts the data from the data fields and assembles the message. In the exemplary embodiment the message is a code fragment. Once rendered and viewed by a user at the client side a completed code fragment represents an enhancement. By pre defining commonly used messages such as code fragments or components thereof and making them available as templates users of authoring system need only enter limited information to complete construction of a code fragment.

For example to create enhancements for supplementing a television game quiz show broadcast a question answer template is utilized by authoring system . The template is pre defined as to size shape appearance placement and other attributes that will define the question answer enhancement s appearance on a computer screen when the template is rendered by Web browser software. The template lacks however substantive content describing any particular question or answer. Users of authoring system supply the empty data fields of the template through their computer keyboard or other input device with a question and a set of multiple choice answers to appear in an enhancement. While doing so the rendered question answer enhancement is displayed on a portion of the screen such that it continually updates according to the information being supplied by the user. In this way the user can visualize the end product enhancement while he is in the process of modifying the code of a template for creating the completed code fragment that will describe the end product enhancement.

Once received by client computer code fragments are processed in any of a number of ways. For example code fragment may act at client computer to set or change an internal controlling state variable which would cause a presently displayed DHTML document to be re rendered within Web browser . Alternatively code fragment can cause Web browser to fetch a new DHTML document or Web page and to extract data from the fields of code fragment to dynamically create and display the fetched DHTML document. Still another function of code fragment is to cause a side effect changing the DOM which causes the currently displayed DHTML document to be re rendered. In all cases once the re rendering or fetching of the DHTML document is triggered other information within the data fields of code fragments is gleaned and utilized to construct the DHTML document thereby providing updated and continually evolving enhancements.

A complete code fragment is generated by the broadcaster authoring software as described above using a combination of the information in the pre defined template and the information supplied by the user. The software also includes access to a database or other type of data storage. Utilizing the software users of authoring system can create code fragments associate them with time stamps indicative of requested delivery time and store them for future delivery during a particular broadcast show.

In accordance with the teachings of the present invention user is able to simultaneously enjoy broadcast which is delivered through standard broadcasting means and on a receiver such as a television and to interact with the broadcast enhancements on a separate receiver such as a computer . The broadcaster houses Web server which serves assets of DHTML documents or Web pages related in content to broadcast . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in assets are served to individual users or viewers over a communications network such as the Internet . The user s computer houses a web browser and a customized software application such as applet . Applet is embedded in DHTML document where it receives code fragments via computer network . DHTML document and applet are executable by Web browser such that code fragments are interpreted and rendered therein. Each code fragment describes only a portion of a larger image causing the display of web browser which appears on computer monitor to be modified or updated upon receipt of each code fragment.

In an embodiment of the present invention DHTML document comprises a top level frame set as commonly utilized in the art. Applet is embedded in DHTML document in a hidden frame. Thus when embedded applet receives code fragments code fragments are evaluated in the context of the top level frame set of DHTML document .

Exemplary code fragment comprises an identifier and five arguments to populate the array or table of the question HTML template within fframe . When applet receives code fragment identifier indicates how the remaining arguments will be analyzed. Applet serves the received code fragment to a JavaScript interpreter where a handler designed to process a particular type of message process code fragment according to its message type. Code fragment is accordingly served to Web browser . In this exemplary scenario identifier is the letter q. The handler contains code that in case q causes a question template HTML document to be populated by the remaining five arguments of code fragment and placed fframe . The result of this population is shown in where fframe presents to a user the question and four possible answers that were contained in as the last five arguments and could fragment .

It is to be understood that DHTML document can contain any number of frames organized in any manner and that each of the frames can contain any HTML or other template. Code fragments can contain any number or type of arguments and applet can evaluate code fragments in any of a number of standard methods known in the art. The selection of templates for placement within different frames can be controlled with the use of identifiers recognized by an applet as explain herein or by any other means that will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

In addition to responding to code fragments received over the Internet to Web browser DHTML document also functions through direct audience participation. User participates with broadcast and Web content by providing input to his computer through a user input device such as a keyboard mouse microphone or other peripheral device. DHTML document recognizes and analyzes user input which is rendered by Web browser and displayed on monitor .

Also supporting the interactive experience of the present invention is the added feature of synchronization which ensures that the content displayed on the user s computer is timed according to the content displayed on television . Synchronization can be achieved in a variety of different ways. These can include real time delivery methods and Network Time Protocol NTP methods though those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative synchronization protocols are within the scope of the present invention.

In a real time delivery embodiment code fragments are delivered to users according to the times they are to be viewed by the users. In this embodiment a user s client side computer will receive and render a code fragment immediately upon delivery.

In an alternate embodiment code fragments include time stamps. In this embodiment synchronization is achieved for example by NTP. This embodiment is more reliable than the previously disclosed embodiment in cases where delivery times of code fragments are uncertain. Such uncertainties can arise for example from network congestion or low quality network service provided to users. NTP entails synchronizing the client s application clock to global time. Global time is in the exemplary embodiment shown determined by house clock . Code fragments sent to each user s computer client computer are time stamped according to global time and each client computer evaluates the code fragments based on the code fragment s synchronized application clock. The code fragments are rendered by the client computer at the time specified by the timestamps contained in each code fragment. The time stamps are read and interpreted by applet in the context of the client computer s synchronized application clock. This puts the user in the same time frame as the broadcast content yielding a realistic time oriented interactive experience.

For example the user input may be an answer in response to a question posed on the user s display monitor or television . If the user enters a correct answer DHTML document resident in Web browser will cause monitor to display a flashing Correct graphic on the computer screen.

If on the other hand the computer input is determined at step to be a code fragment embedded applet receives the code fragment at and directs it to be analyzed at . The analysis is as described with reference to and though it can involve further processing. Here for example the JavaScript interpreter recognizes a time stamp indicating when code fragment should be rendered and displayed according to computer s synchronized application clock. Based on the analysis Web browser receives code fragment at the correct time at and subsequently at DHTML document therein renders the input received from the JavaScript interpreter.

For purposes of illustration an exemplary scenario that may be employed within the scope of the present invention is provided. The exemplary scenario involves a television game show in which users may both watch the contestant on a television set and compete against the contestant through a computer. Both the individual users and the contestant are challenged by the same game and are subject to the same timing constraints and limitations. As a result both the individual users and the contestant can control the outcome of the game. Thus unlike ordinary television enhanced television systems of the present invention enable a user at home to participate in and to enjoy an interactive experience by directly participating in the televised game show.

A sequence of events which may occur in the exemplary game show scenario is illustrated in . As previously described a broadcast signal is sent by the broadcaster station and broadcast enhancements is sent from broadcaster authoring system by push server . The broadcast and its enhancements are synchronized according to house clock . In this exemplary illustration of the present invention the game show comprises questions which both the television contestant and the individual user may answer. Points are earned by each according to whether their respective answers are correct or incorrect.

For example the game show may begin with a first question sent in the broadcast signal and in a code fragment created with broadcast authoring system . This question is received in its broadcast fours by a individual user s television at and in its code fragment form by the user s computer at . The user sees or hears the question when it is presented on his television at and simultaneously sees or hears the question on his computer at . At this point in time a period of interaction begins. The user is free to ponder and answer the question at at any time within interaction period . At when the contestant on television runs out of time or submits an answer that may be seen or heard by the user on the television a code fragment is sent or a previously sent time stamp is read which causes the user to lose the ability to submit an answer to the computer. At this time the period of interaction ends.

Thus the contestant and the individual users are subject to the same time constraints and rules. The contestant on television may be rewarded for a correct answer to the question similarly if correct the individual user also will receive affirmation through a display or sound on the computer acknowledging such. With each new question new periods of interaction occur enabling an user to enjoy a unique interactive experience that was unachievable prior to the present invention.

Another feature of the present invention is its ability to enable a large number of remote users to compete against one another. Referring back to assets are communicated bi directionally such that any individual user s activity can be reported back to broadcaster . By tracking and storing all incoming scoring data users playing a game through the enhanced television systems of the present invention and achieving various levels of scores can in effect compete against one another.

For example the winning user would be named first in the leaderboard followed by the second place user and so on. Such reporting of winning standings provides users of the system with an incentive to continue playing and attempting to win. An alternative to the top scores leaderboard is a local scores leaderboard as illustrated in . This local scores listing would be based upon each individual user s standing. A local scores leaderboard for a particular user would include that user s rank or score in the middle of the list several users ranked below that user and several users ranked above the particular user.

The present invention provides yet another alternative mode of competition. Rather than being able to view only the top scoring users or the local scoring users any user has the ability to select from a variety of pre established groups of users such that only users belonging to the selected group will appear on that group s leaderboard. In this manner a user is able to organize and join groups of his or her preference.

In an exemplary embodiment a user who establishes a group will select both its name and password. The selected group name and password are proposed by the user to the broadcaster Web server where they are verified for uniqueness. If no other group exists with an identical name password combination Web server designates the user selected group name and password.

Once a group is established any user in possession of the group s name and password can join that group such as through the dialog box shown in . The user simply selects a desired group such as through a drop down menu and enters the associated password such as through input field . The information is then sent to Web server which recognizes that the user is now a member of the selected group. During a game Web server delivers the scores of all users who have joined the group and DHTML document organizes those scores to create a personalized leaderboard in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. In this way a user can invite anyone such as a family member or friends or any number of other users to join a customized group competition. This feature of the present invention enables a personal competitive ability not offered or found in prior art systems.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the scope of the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. For example broadcasts involving content other than game shows may be utilized within the scope of the present invention. Also displaying the enhanced portion of the broadcast of the present invention can be accomplished with alternative visual software other than a web browser or applet viewer. It is also contemplated as being within the scope of the present invention to enable the user to submit inputs to the broadcaster for various alternative feedback purposes. Additionally it is within the scope of the present invention for a user to select other users for the formation of a competitive group for purposes of comparing scores such as in a leaderboard. The present invention also is not limited to being used for broadcast enhancements and interaction across the Internet alone. Rather the invention may be used for different types of enhancement programs across a wide variety of computer and communications networks.

It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

