---

title: Web-based information delivery method, system, and apparatus
abstract: A method and system based on an enhanced publish-subscribe information delivery model for delivering information from information publishers to information subscribers on an Intranet or the Internet is disclosed. The invented system includes a centralized subject catalog that contains a hierarchy of categories with built-in functionality of browsing, searching, and navigation. Information publishers list information subjects in the appropriate categories in the subject catalog and publish information subsequently in terms of issues for the subject listings. Information subscribers find and make subscriptions to desired subject listings in the catalog. Then, the issues published by the publishers for the subject listings are delivered to and only to the corresponding subscribers in a timely manner. While emphasizing timeliness, the invented method and system permits great flexibility in information publication, subscription, and delivery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812440&OS=08812440&RS=08812440
owner: 
number: 08812440
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080508
---
The invention described herein relates generally to an information delivery system and method of operation. More particularly the invention relates to web based system and method for timely delivering information from information publishers to and only to corresponding information subscribers. The invention also relates to an electronic commerce system or an online brokerage marketplace where information is traded as intangible goods and to a website where information subscription and delivery services are provided.

An information delivery system delivers information from the source where it s produced to the target where it s consumed . Sometimes timing is so crucial that information must be delivered in a timely manner or in real time . On the other hand such a system must make sure that information will not reach the targets where it s not requested. Conclusively an ideal information delivery system must guarantee the accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery.

However it has become increasingly difficult to reach these goals in an era in which the reliance on information has become more and more prominent and a tremendous amount of information has been accumulated. On one hand people are thirty for information increasingly depending on information and information related technologies in their daily lives. Businesses also operate around information and business owners and leaders rely heavily on information to make business decisions. In the mean time information is accumulated at a pace that storage devices can hardly catch up with. As a result people are overwhelmed and sometimes annoyed by the huge amount of information they receive including unsolicited information such as electronic spam or junk mails. Ironically people have difficulty obtaining the right information actually because they receive too much information.

Information is power but only when it reaches the people who request it. More often than not published information doesn t reach all the wanting targets when it is generated. For example an advertisement from a store may never reach a customer looking to purchase a particular product although the promotional price is in the range the customer wants to pay. Since the desired information delivery is not achieved people have to retrieve the missed information later on among a huge amount of information possibly resorting to a search engine.

As another problem of information delivery information that reaches a wrong target bears no value and thus becomes annoying junk. For example people who do not own a home frequently get annoyed by information they receive about home loan refinancing because the information is of no value to them.

The third problem associated with information delivery is that information is often not delivered in real time or timely. Consequently information whose value is strongly tied to a timely delivery loses its value if it s not delivered to the right targets in time. For example information about a flat TV sale on Sunday doesn t help a TV buyer if the information is received on the following Tuesday.

These information delivery problems occur because the model of the current information delivery is usually either pull based or push based.

With a push based delivery model information producers push information to all possible targets in order to reach the maximum number of correct targets. For example a grocery store sends out promotional advertisements by mail to all the people in the neighborhood in spite of the fact that some of the people may never visit this store. As a result information producers waste resources while information consumers that are wrong targeted get annoyed. Underwood et al. in User Centered Push for Timely Information Delivery describes such a push based information delivery method. Ishikawa et al. describes another technology in implementing a push based information delivery.

With a pull based information delivery model however information consumers pull information from information sources usually by browsing or searching for the information. For example people usually visit certain websites to get certain type of information. If they don t know which website contains the information they need they usually use a search engine to help find web pages that might contain the needed information. Browsing and searching are often required even if the visitors know exactly which website has the information they need.

A search engine helps a consumer retrieve the information from anywhere on the Web but at the same time it also pulls in a massive amount of seemingly related information. In reality a search engine doesn t always return the right result. Nor does it do so without burying the requested information in a large amount of intruding information.

With either a push based or pull based model there is a disconnection between the information producers and consumers and a lack of an agreement about what information should be delivered to the consumers and when it should be delivered. Because of the disconnection and the lack of the agreement information is often delivered not to where it s mostly needed but to where it s not needed at all. Moreover because of the disconnection between the information producers and consumers it is very difficult to achieve timeliness of information delivery.

A publish subscribe model is also used for information delivery. Traditionally newspapers and magazines are published and delivered to subscribers using such a model. Nowadays a visitor of some websites may subscribe to mostly newsletters or alerts published by the owner of the site by making a few selections and providing an email address. For instance https diss.state.de.us DWS public.diss provides a service that allows a user to subscribe to information updates provided by Delaware agencies and government entities via emails.

In the information era publish subscribe models are predominantly used in proprietary Enterprise Application Integration EAI systems where the applications within an enterprise computer system communicate with each other by exchanging messages or events. Each message or event is published by an upstream application and matched and delivered to the corresponding downstream applications that show interest in that type of messages or events.

While a publish subscribe based information delivery model such as those used in EAI systems has certain advantages over either push based or pull based models and can potentially achieve accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery it helps little in solving the current information delivery problems due to its limitations.

First of all EAI systems are proprietary and inoperative with each other. As a result information publication subscription and delivery are restricted to one vendor or one system and have failed to scale up to larger more generalized networks such as a large Intranet or the Internet.

Secondly the information exchanged in an EAI system must confirm to a predefined machine readable format that s mutually understandable by both upstream and downstream applications. Therefore such a system is not suitable for delivering general free formatted information such as news events articles and personal announcement for human consumption. For instance XML document is suitable for computer to consume but a human reader more likely prefers the same information in plain text or PDF format.

Finally an EAI system failed to provide an efficient cataloging mechanism storing and managing information such as who are publishing and what are published and it doesn t permit flexibility in information publication subscription and delivery which is desirable for human consumed information.

In summary neither push based nor pull based information delivery fulfills the accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery. Publish subscribe based information delivery is successful only in proprietary EAI systems and is not suitable for delivering general information on a large scale for a large audience. What s needed to completely address the information delivery problems is an method and system that achieves accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery scales up to be suitable for delivering information on an Intranet or the Internet delivers general information suitable for human consumption provides a centralized information publication catalog to facilitate information publication and subscription provides a common marketplace where information can be published subscribed to and delivered among a large audience of information publishers and subscribers and allows flexibility in information publication subscription and delivery. The invention is such a method and system to address the current information delivery problems.

The method and system of the invention is built on an enhanced publish subscribe based information delivery model. In such an enhanced model a publisher is anyone that wishes to publish information. As a counterpart a subscriber is anyone that wishes to receive information published by a publisher. A publisher lists an information subject in a centralized catalog and a subscriber browses or searches the catalog for interesting subjects. Once a subscriber identifies an interesting subject in the catalog he she makes a subscription to the subject. Meanwhile the publisher can submit and publish information in terms of issues for the subject that he she lists. Then the published issues will be delivered to and only to those who have made subscriptions to the subject.

In the invention only the owner of a subject listing can publish information for the subject and the published information from the publisher is delivered to a subscriber if and only if the subscriber has subscribed to the subject ensuring accuracy and completeness of information delivery. Moreover since the publisher subscriber relationship is established in advance the published information can be delivered as soon as it becomes available to ensure timeliness of information delivery.

The centralized catalog included in the system of the invention contains a hierarchy of categories and each category may contain a list of sub categories or subjects. With the hierarchical structure plus the built in functionality of browsing searching and navigation the catalog enables a user to easily identify a category to list an information subject or find desired subjects to subscribe to.

Besides achieving accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery and providing a centralized catalog the invention offers additional benefits for information publication and subscription which differentiate the present invention from the known arts.

First of all the invention conducts information publication and subscription on an Intranet or the Internet enlarging the scope of information delivery.

Secondly the invention doesn t restrict to any particular machine readable content format and thus is more suitable for delivering general information for human consumption. Since there is no fixed content format is required the invented method and system is suitable for publishing and delivering a large scope of general information such as news events alerts articles blogs personal announcement and online journal. Such information is pertinent to people s lives and of the types that they usually search for and consume.

Moreover the invention enables anyone to participate in information publication and subscription broadening the audience of publishers and subscribers and virtually making everyone a potential publisher subscriber. The system of the invention creates a marketplace of information where any registered user not just big media companies to publish information. The marketplace of information is different from a website that provides simple subscription services for its newsletters and alerts. In the information marketplace for example a blogger may list a subject about his blogs in the subject catalog and then publish his blogs regularly. Anyone who subscribes to the subject will receive his blogs in the desired format via selected media at the specified delivery time. Since the system takes over the actual information delivery based on the subject listing and the subscription information publishers can focus on content creation rather than subscription management and content delivery. With the system subscribers also have a central place to gain all information in need and control how and when to receive information.

Finally the invention permits great flexibility and control over information publication and receiving. For instance a publisher can make published information available in a plurality of formats such as text audio and SMS message so that a subscriber can choose a desired format to consume. A publisher can also control when to publish an issue by predefining a publication schedule for a subject listing. A subscriber can similarly predefine a receiving schedule for a subscription so as to control when to receive published issues. In addition a subscriber can also select desired delivery media such as email fax and even postal mail for receiving published information.

In conclusion the invented method and system employs a subscriber centric information delivery. A subscriber decides what information to receive while a publisher announces what his her publication is about by listing an information subject in the centralized subject catalog. While ensuring accuracy completeness and timeliness of information delivery the method and system allows great flexibility for information publication and receiving. Ultimately the invented method and system provides a marketplace where information producers and consumers meet and a brokerage where information is delivered from producers to consumers according to subject listings and subscriptions.

A detailed description of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention will now be given with reference to . Although the description provides detailed examples of possible implementations of the present invention it should be noted that these details are intended to be exemplary only and in no way delimit the scope of the invention.

Information any data that carries value such as fact or knowledge. The value is relative given that the same piece of data could be valuable to one person or while being valueless to another.

User a natural person or an organization who registers with the system by providing required registration information and uses the system for either publishing information or subscribing to receive information. A user can also be one from the administrative personnel that does not participate in information publication and subscription.

Publisher a user of the system who publishes information and thus is the source or provider of the information he she publishes. In addition enable a publisher to do something means that the system executes one or more commands from the publisher to do something such as receiving and fulfilling a publisher s request.

Subscriber a user of the system who subscribes to receive information published by publishers and thus is an information consumer. A subscriber can also be an information publisher and vise versa. For example a subscriber that subscribes to streaming stock quotes published by another publisher may also publishes stock market alerts. In addition enable a subscriber to do something means that the system executes one or more commands from the subscriber to do something such as receiving and fulfilling a subscriber s request.

User Group a group of users defined by either the system or a user. There is a default user group Everyone which includes all users in the system. However a user can define a number of user groups such as friend classmates and relatives and each such user group is a subgroup of the Everyone group. A user group is used to limit who may subscribe to published information.

Information Subject a short text that describes the content of the information published for it. Thus an information subject represents the topic of the published information. For example an information subject can be Daily Breaking News NBA Game Results Larry s Personal Announcement IPOD Sales Alert etc. When a subscriber subscribes to receive information the subscription is made on the information subject. Once the subscription is made the subscriber will receive all information published for that subject. Information subjects are listed and categorized in a centralized catalog so that potential subscribers can browse or search for desired subjects.

Subject Listing a subject that s listed in a subject catalog. Besides the subject name a subject listing also specifies publication information such as such as publisher description subscription fee and publication schedule. Therefore besides telling what the published information is about a subject listing also specifies how information is published.

Subject Catalog a complete enumeration of information subjects arranged systematically with descriptive details. Subject catalog is where a publisher lists the information subjects and also where a subscriber finds interesting subjects to subscribe to. As the number of information subjects increases the classification and categorization of the subjects becomes important. To organize the subjects the catalog contains a hierarchy of categories each of which contains a list of information subjects or sub categories. The hierarchical organization enables a subscriber to efficiently locate interesting subjects and also makes it easy for a publisher to find the most pertinent category for an information subject.

Issue one occurrence of information release for an information subject. One or more issues may be published for a given subject but only the publisher who lists the information subject may publish issues for the subject.

Past Issue an issue that was published in the past. A publisher may want to keep the pass issues for a subject for future subscribers. For instance a publisher may publish just one article for a subject. After the article is published it will be delivered to a new subscriber as soon as the subscriber makes a subscription.

Mature Issue an issue with respect to a subscriber that is published but yet to be delivered to the subscriber .

Version a format in which an issue is released. An issue can be released in different versions meeting different subscription needs and adapting to different delivery media defined below . For instance an issue for breaking news can be published as plain text images video audio HTTP page and so on yet carrying the same or common value. An issue is always released in certain version s . Therefore in this disclosure an issue can mean one or all versions of the issue depending on the context without causing any ambiguity.

Delivery Media a media via which an issue is delivered to its subscribers such as email voice fax SMS message and postal mail. There are certain restrictions on the applicable media for a given version. For example audio content cannot be delivered by fax.

Publication Schedule a schedule specified by a publisher for an information subject by which issue or issues for the subject are published and thus made available for delivery to the corresponding subscribers. A publication schedule can be either real time upon submission fixed designated for a fixed time or on demand upon the publisher s request . If multiple issues are published for a subject with a fixed publication schedule the publication schedule must specify publication time recurrence pattern and range of recurrence.

The recurrence pattern for a publication schedule describes when and how often issues for the subject are recurrently released. For instance issues may be published every Friday every other Friday or every last Friday in the month. Depending on the complexity of the publication schedule recurrence patterns may be combined.

The range of the recurrence for a publication schedule describes how long the recurrence will last including a start time and an end time. The start time is the time when the first issue is published. The end time may be infinity meaning that the recurrence lasts for ever.

Receiving Schedule a schedule specified by a subscriber for a subscription by which mature issues for the subscription are delivered to the subscriber. A receiving schedule can be either real time as soon as an issue is available fixed designated for a fixed time or on demand upon the subscriber s request . Similar to publication schedule if a receiving schedule is designated for a fixed time recurrence pattern and range of recurrence may be specified to recurrently receive issues published for the subject to which the subscription is made.

Web Services programmatic interfaces made available for application to application communication over the Web. Web services provide a standard means of interoperating between different software applications running on a variety of platforms and or frameworks. Web services are characterized by their great interoperability and extensibility as well as their machine processable descriptions thanks to the use of XML. They can be combined in a loosely coupled way in order to achieve complex operations. Programs providing simple services can interact with each other in order to deliver sophisticated added value services. Web services sometimes also refer to a body of open standards that are used to implement web services including XML SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol WSDL Web Services Description Language UDDI Universal Description Discovery and Integration etc. In this disclosure web services also include RESTful web services.

An information publisher seeking to publish information will connect to the system of the invention using an Internet web browser or a wireless device that has Internet access. The publisher then chooses a suitable category in the subject catalog of the system to list an information subject and the system presents a series of questions regarding the subject. The publisher answers fills in those questions by providing additional information about the subject listing including subject name description publication schedule available versions delivery media sample publications other pertinent information depending on the category selected and so on. Upon completion the publisher submits the request and confirms his her subject listing. The system then lists the subject in the subject catalog stored in the database and makes the subject available for subscription.

Conversely an information subscriber seeking to consume information will connect to the system of the invention using Internet web browser or a wireless device that has Internet access. The subscriber selects and subscribes to a subject listed in the subject catalog based his her interest. Then the system presents a series of questions regarding his her subscription. The subscriber answers fills in those questions by providing additional information about the subscription including desired issue version receiving schedule delivery media and other pertinent information depending on the subject and the category where the subject is listed. Upon completion the subscriber submits the request and confirms his her subscription. The system then stores the subscription in the database and makes it receptive for any published issues for the subject.

After a subject is listed in the system the publisher can again connect to the system and select one of his her subject listings for which an issue is to be submitted. The system allows the publisher to submit one or more versions of an issue at a time by uploading local files to the systems or by creating or editing issue contents online. Upon success the system stores the submitted issue in the file storage and updates the database with the submission accordingly. Then the system delivers the issue to each subscriber according to his her subscription that the subscriber made to the subject.

The above description depicts a typical process of information delivery performed by the system of the invention. Depending on the publication schedule of the subject listing and the receiving schedule of the subscription made by the subscriber there can be particulars in the information delivery process which will be covered in details below.

As shown in the information delivery system IDS of the invention serves three types of users or roles information publishers information subscribers and administrative personnel. Since administrative personal is not involved in the information delivery process it s omitted in the following disclosure. As illustrated in the users of the system can interact with the system via any one of a number of client types including 

As shown in an HTTP web browser client or a web services client has a direct connection to the Internet. The mobile wireless clients cell phones PDAs etc. are shown as going thorough a WAP gateway that applies the necessary transformations message formats addresses etc. for enabling a WAP client to communicate with an IP host such as the server implementing the invention. However depending on the actual implementation of WAP the WAP gateway may not be necessary. If it s used the WAP gateway can be used as a standard proxy server. This is because recent release of WAP includes support for transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP and HTTP with which wireless devices can utilize existing Internet technologies directly.

Different types of clients serve different needs. For example HTTP client is suitable for human operators to interactively access the system while mobile client is more suitable for interacting with the system through a mobile device. Web services client is more applicable for programmatically accessing the system to achieve integration among different software applications.

The major software components of the system of the invention are illustrated in . These components include web server web services provider application server file storage database server and database and web services registry .

While shown in as a standalone component the web services provider component may reside in the web server and reuse existing functionality realized by the web server and or the application server . The web services provider implements all the exposed web services and provides an access endpoint for these services. By providing an alternative programmatic way to access the system this component allows a web services client to send web services requests such as listing a subject and submitting an issue and to receive the corresponding responses.

The web server illustrated in filters all HTTP requests. It maintains and serves all static Hypertext Markup Language Extensible Hypertext Markup Language HTML XHTML data and delegates all dynamic requests to the application server . The application server on the other hand houses the core software components of the system. Among other things the application server provides persistence transaction and security support for the system.

As illustrated in the application server includes web application component subject cataloging component user registration and management component subject listing component subject subscription component issue submission component issue publication component issue receiving component subject rating component and information delivery engine .

The web application component manages a user s interactive session with the system . The web application component determines the type of action requested by the user. It validates the user request and based on the type of action requested by the user the web application component invokes the other relevant software components of the system . For example if the action requested by the user consists of listing an information subject in the subject category the web application component passes the request to the subject listing component . Similarly if the user wants to subscribe to an information subject the web application component invokes the subject subscription component .

The subject cataloging component maintains the subject catalog and manages the cataloging and categorization of information subjects.

As illustrated in the subject catalog contains a hierarchy of predefined categories each of which may contain sub categories. The root of the hierarchy is Any Publication which doesn t belong to any other category. Under the root category there are a few main categories such as News Events Alerts Articles Personal Publications etc. Each of these categories forms a sub hierarchy. For example News contains sub categories such as Politics Business Sports Entertainment Science Technologies Healthy Beauty and so on. The Business sub category further contains Economy Finance Stock Market Investment and so on.

A category that doesn t contain any sub categories is a leaf category. For example Economy Finance Stock Market and Investment in don t have sub categories and are therefore leaf categories.

Note that the only demonstrates a partial category tree due to the space limit. Also the hierarch may be extended as needed by introducing sub categories to a leaf category and adding more sub categories to a non leaf category.

For a non leaf category one of the sub categories is Others which is a special category for subjects that are not suitable for any other sub categories at the same level. Others category is always a leaf category.

Only leaf category may list information subjects. Therefore a leaf category contains a class of the information subjects that have certain common attribute that the category manifests. When a leaf category is promoted a non leaf category by introducing sub categories all the subjects listed in the category will be moved to Others sub category.

Categorization is subjective and only demonstrates one of the possibilities. Based on different criteria used for categorization a different category hierarchy can be formed. For instance News might be divided to Local News Domestic News and International News etc.

The categories the information subjects listed in the category hierarchy and the relationships between the categories are managed by the subject cataloging component and stored in the system database . With the subject cataloging component system administrators can manage the catalog such as creating a new category and promoting modifying or removing an existing category. More importantly the component provides users with the functionality of browsing and searching the catalog.

A user can browse the categories and the subjects listed in the categories. To support browsing the subject cataloging component can return the subjects directly listed in a given leaf category or combined subjects listed in all leaf categories under a given non leaf category. The returned subjects can be further categorized by subject properties such as publisher publication schedule available versions popularity and rating for roll up and drill down. Besides browsing navigation is also supported. For instance a user can navigate from one subject to other subjects listed by the same publisher or from one subject to other similar subjects.

The cataloging component also contains indexing and searching capabilities providing an alternative way other than browsing to locate a subject or a category. Indexing and searching can be extended beyond category names and subject names to subject attributes such as publisher subject description and sample issues. With the indexing and search capabilities the component is able to return a list of plausible categories for a given search query entered by a publisher typically a subject name so that the right category can be identified to list a subject. The component can also return a list of candidate subjects for a given search query entered by a subscriber typically keywords so that the subscriber can identify interesting subjects.

The search can be conducted in the whole subject catalog or selectively in certain categories in the catalog.

The user registration and management component manages all user related activities or actions in the system and maintains its users both publishers and subscribers in the database. The component is responsible for user registration user account creation updating and cancellation user authentication system security user privacy protection and so on.

To register with the system a user needs to provide required user registration information such as user first name and last name address email address phone numbers username password etc. A user can also decide whether to keep an optional public profile that contains the username and other public information such as interest and profession. A public profile can be viewed and searched by any user.

With the user registration and management component a registered user can also create a new user group add new members to or remove existing members from an existing user group or remove an existing group. To add a member to a user group the member s identification username needs to be known. One way to get the identification is to search or browse users who have public profiles. A user can add one user group as a member to another group meaning that all members in the former group will be also the members of the latter group.

The subject listing component enables a publisher to list information subjects in the subject catalog. Interacting with this component a publisher can create new listings view modify and delete existing listings.

To list a new subject a publisher provides all information about the listing including subject name description target category subscription fee user groups subscription agreement sample issue s publication schedule available versions etc.

A publisher can control who may view or subscribe to a subject listing by designating it to one or more user groups. Only the members in those user groups may view and subscribe to the subject listing. If the default user group Everyone is selected any user in the system may view or subscribe to the subject.

In addition a subject listing specifies how to handle past issues. The past issue handling defines whether to keep previously published issues available for future subscribers and if so for how long including forever these past issues will be kept.

Though unessential a publisher can view the subscriptions for each of his her subject listings. Further for each subscription the publisher may view the subscription information such as the selected version.

Deleting or modifying a subject listing in a way that impacts existing subscriptions is not recommended unless such actions are allowed by the subscription agreement. Nevertheless extra caution from publishers is necessitated.

The subject subscription component allows a user to subscribe to subjects listed in the catalog. Interacting with this component a user can make new subscriptions view modify or cancel existing subscriptions.

In general a subscriber browses or searches the subject catalog for interesting subjects to subscribe to. To subscribe to a subject the subscriber provides all the subscription information including subject name desired version receiving schedule delivery media and so on. Depending on the selected media type the subscription must also provide the destination information such as an email address or a fax number.

The issue submission component enables a publisher to submit to the system an issue for a subject that he she lists so the issue can be published and delivered to the corresponding subscribers. It also allows the publisher to view a list of recently submitted issues modify delete or replace submitted issues etc.

To complete the submission of a new issue the publisher should submit the issue in all versions specified by the subject listing. However the publisher can submit one version at a time. When the system receives a submission it will store the issue in its file storage .

For a submission a new publication schedule can be optionally specified for the submitted version. By default the publication schedule specified by the subject listing is used. If a new publication schedule is specified it will override the default publication schedule for the submitted issue.

If the publication schedule for a submitted issue is real time the issue will be published immediately. If the publication schedule is on demand the system will not publish it until the publisher requests so. As the system allows a publisher to view a list of submitted issues at a later time he she can request the system to publish issues with an on demand publication schedule. If the publication is scheduled at a future time the system will publish the issue when the scheduled time arrives.

Before the system starts delivering a submitted issue the publisher can modify a submitted issue such as re submitting a new copy or providing a new publication schedule. He She may also delete it so that he she can summit a new one later.

In addition a publisher is also able to view a list of issues that are due or overdue. The system may send reminders to the publisher and require actions for those issues.

The issue publication component enables a publisher to view a list of submitted issues that have on demand publication schedules and to request the system publish any of these issues. Once the request is received the system will publish these requested issues.

The issue receiving component enables a subscriber to view a list of mature issues for his her subscriptions and the corresponding receiving schedules for those issues to override the receiving schedule for a mature issue or to request delivery of any mature issues for a subscription. In addition the issue receiving component allows a subscriber to request redelivery of any missing delivered issues.

As described above when a published issue is delivered to a subscriber is determined by the receiving schedule specified in the subscription. Thus if the receiving schedule for a subscription is real time the subscriber doesn t need to make a request in order to receive the published issues any issue published for the subscribed subject is delivered to the subscriber as soon as the issue is published. If the receiving schedule is fixed the published issue will not be delivered to the subscriber until the scheduled time arrives. However if the receiving schedule is on demand the subscriber must make a receiving request with the issue receiving component in order to receive the published issue. Once the request is received the system will deliver the issue to the subscriber.

Nevertheless the above default receiving time for an issue derived from the receiving schedule specified for the subscription can be overridden and the overriding can happen as long as the issue hasn t been delivered. With the issue receiving component the subscriber can make a request to override the derived receiving schedule for a mature issue by specifying a new receiving schedule for the issue. For instance if for a mature issue the receiving time derived from the receiving schedule specified by the subscription is a fixed time in the future the subscriber may request an immediate delivery of the issue re schedule the delivery for a different time or change the receiving schedule to on demand so that the subscriber can request the delivery of the issue later. Similarly if the receiving schedule for a mature issue is on demand or real time the subscriber can override the receiving schedule with a fixed time in the future.

A subscriber may also cancel a pending delivery so as not to receive the issue at all in cases such as the issue is too old or not in need any more.

The subject rating component allows a subscriber to provide his her opinion of the quality of the issues published for a subject rendered by the publisher. The rating for a subject includes an overall score and some detailed comments. Based on all the ratings provided by subscribers for a subject an overall rating is determined and flagged for the subject.

The information delivery engine component delivers published issues to the corresponding subscribers according to the subject listings and the subscriptions such as the publication schedule receiving schedule delivery media and selected issue version. The engine doesn t interact with user directly. Instead it performs tasks created by other components in the application server . illustrates a workflow diagram of the information delivery engine in which a solid arrow represents an information transformation process identified by a number.

A scheduled publication task is created from the issue submission component when a publisher submits an issue for publication with a fixed publication schedule. The delivery engine creates a timer based on the schedule to execute the scheduled publication task. When the timeout occurs the engine transforms the task into a publication task.

A publication task can also come directly from the issue submission component when a publisher submits an issue with a real time publication schedule or from the issue publication component when a publisher requests to publish a previously submitted issue with an on demand publication schedule .

For each publication task the delivery engine queries the database for all subscriptions. If a subscription specifies a real time receiving schedule a delivery task will be created and put into the delivery task queue. However if the receiving schedule for a subscription is either on demand or fixed the delivery engine marks the issue as mature to be delivered for the subscription in the database without creating a delivery task.

Based on the selected version and delivery media specified in the subscription a delivery task will be routed into different task queues such as email task queue for the final delivery.

Delivery tasks can be also created if a subscription has a fixed or on demand receiving schedule. When a subscriber makes a subscription with a fixed receiving schedule a scheduled receiving task is created . Similar to a scheduled publication task a timer is set based on the receiving schedule. When timeout occurs the task will be transformed into a receiving task . If the schedule is recurrent a new scheduled receiving task will be created for the next receiving.

A receiving task can also be directly created by the issue receiving component when a subscriber explicitly requests the delivery of a mature issue with an on demand receiving schedule.

When the delivery engine executes a receiving task for a subscription it queries the database for all mature issues and then creates corresponding delivery tasks .

Besides adding a task into a task queue the system can also remove a task from a queue. For instance if a subscriber cancel or modify a receiving schedule for an issue the scheduled receiving task will be canceled or replaced.

File storage is used for storing issues that is submitted by publishers. It is also used for data archiving run time caching and storing temporary system data.

The database server and database are used to store system information such as user registrations subject catalog subjects subscriptions issue submissions publication requests receiving requests publication status receiving status etc. By querying the database the system can find out information such as what subjects a given user lists or subscribes to for each subject who s the publisher and who are the subscribers etc. The metadata stored in the database is used by the other components and predominantly the information delivery engine .

Web services registry is the directory housing the definitions of web services exposed by the system. The registry contains metadata for a service embodied within a web services description document. The web services registry can be a public registry or a proprietary one possibly part of the information delivery system .

The above description depicts only the major components in the system of the present invention especially those subsystems directly interacting with the user. Depending on the magnitude of implementation and extensional needs additional functional components such as shopping cart component payment processing component billing component system configuration and administration component and advertising component may be included in the system. Extra functionality may be incorporated into the existing components. For example the user registration and management component may allow a user to customize the web interface or set default settings based on his her preference.

A series of use cases will now be described with reference to in order to explain the operation of the system . In particular operation of the system when a publisher makes the following requests is described 

As shown in the List Subject use case of the publisher includes the Identify Category use case. The Identify Category use case takes effect when the publisher starts to list a subject. Similarly the Subscribe to Subject use case of the subscriber includes the Identify Subject use case. The Identify Subject use case takes effect when the subscriber starts to subscribe to a subject.

The Identify Category use case is extended by the Search Category use case and the Browse Navigate Catalog use case. The publisher identifies a category to list a subject by either searching the catalog for a category with a given subject name or browsing the catalog to locate a category. Similarly the Identify Subject use case is extended by the Search Subject use case and the Browse Navigate Catalog use case. The subscriber identifies a subject by either searching the catalog for an interesting subject with a given keyword query or browsing navigating the catalog to locate an interesting subject.

It s also possible that the publisher first identifies a category and then sends a request for listing a subject in the identified category. Such a variation only changes the sequence of steps to .

It s apparent that the above request is unnecessary for a subscription whose receiving schedule is not on demand.

While the above descriptions of the use cases are based on an interactive web client these use cases are applied similarly to wireless clients. However these use cases don t apply for a web services client because a web services client invokes a request programmatically rather than interactively.

Although the above use cases don t specify a request is cancelled when the user doesn t provide confirmation when prompted by the system.

From the above description it should be readily apparent that numerous other modifications and combinations of the above disclosure may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example while web services are used to access the information delivery system in the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that such an approach is not necessary. Further the processes described herein are intended as specific implementations only and are not intended to delimit the scope of the invention which should instead be understood with reference to the following claims.

