---

title: Hardware access and monitoring control
abstract: Various embodiments described and illustrated here include one or more of systems, methods, software, and data structures that may be used to implement policies for hardware access and monitoring control. One embodiment includes obtaining device property data from each device coupled to a system and determining if each device is a device authorized for use with the system. Such embodiments may further include allowing only devices authorized for use with the system to be accessed by processes of the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08341729&OS=08341729&RS=08341729
owner: CA, Inc.
number: 08341729
owner_city: Islandia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080603
---
Data security is an important issue for many companies that develop and maintain proprietary and confidential data in electronic form. Users of computers that have access to such data can typically connect any hardware they desire to their computers and use it. As a result users may connect devices to their computers and copy data or provide others access the data. For example a user may connect a wireless networking card to a computer and connect to an outside network to provide unauthorized access to systems and data. Though such actions may be caught by surveillance there currently are no mechanisms to prevent such actions.

One embodiment in the form of a method includes obtaining device property data from each device coupled to a system and determining if each device is a device authorized for use with the system. Such embodiments further include allowing only devices authorized for use with the system to be accessed by processes of the system.

Another embodiment includes maintaining a list of devices coupled to a computer and determining if each device in the list is communicatively coupled to the computer. Upon determining a device in the list is not physically coupled to the computer such embodiments send a notice that the device is not communicatively coupled to the computer.

Some embodiments in the form of a system may include a system having a bus coupled to a network interface a peripheral device and a processor including an out of band controller. The out of band controller is operable when the system is turned off to receive a request from a requester over the network interface to determine if the peripheral device is coupled to the bus and to request and receive over the bus property data from the peripheral device. The out of band controller further compares the property data to known property data of the peripheral device to confirm the peripheral device has expected properties and send data to the requester the data identifying if the peripheral device has the expected properties.

Another system embodiment includes a bus coupled to a memory and a processor. A device driver in such embodiments includes code operable on the processor to retrieve property data from a peripheral upon connection to the bus and determine if the peripheral device is authorized for use with the system. The device driver initializes a peripheral device if the peripheral device is authorized.

Various embodiments described and illustrated here include one or more of systems methods software and data structures that may be used to implement policies for hardware access and monitoring control. Some embodiments may be implemented to limit devices which may be used with computing devices within an organization. These and other embodiments may also be used to monitor what hardware is connected to computers within an organization and to determine if and when hardware policies have been violated. Some embodiments may be operably interconnected with premises security systems to help prevent removal of hardware devices from a premises secured by such a system. These and other embodiments are described herein with reference to the drawings.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

The out of band controller includes a microprocessor and one or more memories including one or more non volatile memories. The out of band controller may also be referred to as a manageability engine. The out of band controller typically operates when a power source is available to the system . This includes even when the system is powered off yet still plugged into a power source.

When a power supply is applied to the system such as by plugging in a power cord of the system the out of band controller initializes. The initialization of the out of band controller may include the out of band controller accessing an instruction set stored in a non volatile memory such as the flash memory or a memory within the out of band controller . The instruction set is executed by the microprocessor to perform several functions. One such function may include initializing the network interface . The network interface is typically a wired network interface device such as an Ethernet card or Ethernet circuit embedded in a board of the system . In some embodiments the network interface may be a wireless network interface such as a WiFi or WiMax enabled wireless network interface device. Initializing the network interface typically includes starting the network interface and loading a network communication stack such as a TCP IP stack to facilitate use of the network interface by the out of band controller .

Another function facilitated by the out of band controller instruction set is the ability to receive a request from a requestor over the network interface to determine if one or more devices are coupled to the system . Such as request may originate with an administrator a process of a premises security system that may be used to monitor and enforce security within a facility within which the system is housed or other logical or human user initiated process. The out of band controller instruction set may then request and receive property data from one or more devices coupled to the system . The property data may include data identifying each device type and a serial number of each respective device. The property data may then be used by the out of band controller instruction set to compare against stored property data of devices expected to be present within the system to confirm that each device that is expected to be present is in fact present and the actual device expected based on the serial number or other data that is unique to a particular device. The instruction set of the out of band controller may then send data to the requester indicating whether or not all expected devices are present. The data sent to the requester may also identify one or more of devices that are not present and devices that are present but not expected.

The system may also include an instruction set stored in a data storage device coupled to the I O control hub or other portion of the system . The instruction set is typically loaded into the RAM and executed by the central processor . The instruction set in some embodiments includes instructions executable on the central processor to obtain property data from devices coupled to the system such as the network interface data storage devices coupled to the system such as a hard disk or a USB storage device when connected and other devices such as Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI type devices. The instruction set is further executable in such embodiments to determine if each device is a device authorized for use with the system and or by a user of the system . The instruction set may then allow or prevent use of individual devices based on the determination if each device is authorized for use. For example the instruction set may prevent use of the network interface . In some embodiments the instruction set may allow a limited set of functions to be performed with individual devices such as allowing reads from a hard disk but not allow writes to the hard disk.

The clients are coupled to a network . The network may include one or more of a local area network the Internet a wide area network a system area network. The network typically includes wired connections but may also include wireless connections.

In some embodiments both client and client include a data structure identifying devices that are authorized for use on the respective clients . This data structure may be locally stored on each client or may be retrieved from a network storage location such as a client system device authorizations database and log . In some embodiments the data structure identifying authorized devices includes property data of each authorized or excluded device that may be used to identify particular devices. This property data may include a serial number of a device or other device property data that may be used to uniquely identify a device. The data structure may further include permission data associated with each device identified in the data structure. For example the permission data may specify a device or devices of a certain type such as USB storage devices may not be allowed to operate with the client . The permission data may alternatively authorize one or more of reading and writing data to a storage device such as a hard disk optical drive or other storage device.

In some embodiments the permissions of the data structure may be implemented by Basic Input Output System BIOS logic when the clients are started. In such embodiments the BIOS may prevent unauthorized devices from being initialized. The BIOS may also redirect interrupts directed toward such devices to be redirected or ignored. In these and other embodiments the permissions of the data structure may also or alternatively be implemented by device drivers of devices identified in the permissions data structure. Such a device driver when initializing a respective device may query the data structure to obtain permission data relevant to the particular device. The driver may then prevent the device from being accessed if it is an unauthorized device. However the device driver may also allow only certain types of actions. For example if the permissions data identifies that the particular device may only be read from all writes sent to the device may be ignored or an error returned.

In some embodiments the BIOS a device driver or other software may also be operable upon demand such as when a hot pluggable device is added or removed from a client . In such events when a device is added or removed from a client the software determines if the device is allowed and if any limited permissions need to be enforced. The software may retrieve device property data compare the property data against the permissions data structure and implement the appropriate permissions.

In some embodiments the permissions data structure may also or alternatively identify one or more devices which must be present in a client . For example a particular hard disk may be designated as a required device. In the event that a required device is found to be missing the client may send a notice over the network to the client of the administrator or manager and or to the client system device authorizations database and log for tracking of such violations. A message may in some embodiments such as in the event that a required device holds confidential sensitive secret or other valuable data. However in other embodiments a message identifying a missing piece of required hardware may be sent to a premises security system over the network.

The premises security system in some embodiments is a system used to help secure a facility such as an office within which the clients are located. In the event that an item of hardware identified in the permissions data structure is determined to be missing such as from client the client may send a message over the network to the premises security system . The premises security system may be aware of a user of the client or the message may identify the user of the client . the premises security system may then prevent the user from departing the office by preventing the user from passing through a premises ingress egress monitoring and control device such as a secured turnstile that may be activated by an access card or other ingress egress control device.

In further embodiments when a user such as the user of the client attempts to pass through the premises ingress egress monitoring and control device by swiping an access card the premises security system may identify the client of the user swiping the access card. The premises security system may then query the client over the network to determine if all required hardware is present in the client . The client may include an out of band controller as illustrated and described with regard to or may include other software to be responsive to such a query when the client is powered on. If the hardware is present on the client such a message may be returned to the premises security system and the user is allowed to pass through the ingress egress monitoring and control device. If the required hardware is not present the user may be prevented from passing and further action may be taken by the premises security system such as requesting for authorization form the client of the manager or administrator or security personnel may called to attend to the identified situation.

The method may further include retrieving data identifying one or more devices authorized for use with the system for use in the determining . In such embodiments the data identifying one or more devices authorized for use may be retrieved from a database such as the client system device authorizations database and log of or other data storage location.

In some embodiments allowing only devices authorized for use with the system to be accessed by processes of the system includes allowing the processes of the system limited access to a particular device. For example processes of the system may be able to read from a particular device but prevented from writing to it. In other embodiments a device may be written to but not read from. In further embodiments such limited access includes allowing less than all of reading writing deleting and updating data with regard to a particular device.

Further embodiments of the method may include receiving a notification from a process of the system that a first device has been removed from communication with the system and sending a notice that the first device is no longer in communication with the system. Such a notice may be sent to a remote system and include data identifying the system and the first authorized device.

Obtaining device property data from each device coupled to the system typically includes querying either the device directly or a repository of device data maintained by an operating system or virtual machine manager of the system. For example if the device is a USB device the device may be queried directly to obtain property information such as data identifying a vendor of the device the type of device a version of the device and a serial number of the device. In an operating system environment such as a Microsoft Windows operating system environment various operating system application programming interface methods may be available to obtain such information. For example a PCI EXPRESS SERIAL NUMBER capability call may be made within a Microsoft Windows environment to obtain the serial number of a PCI device. Other APIs may be present to obtain device property data depending on the particulars and computing environment of the particular embodiment.

In some embodiments the known property data of the peripheral device is stored in a non volatile memory coupled to the bus and accessible by an out of band controller or other processing element of a computing device implementing the method . The known property data of the peripheral device may include a serial number of the data storage device or other data that may be used to identify the peripheral device.

In some embodiments the method may further include receiving a request to determine if all devices included in the list of devices are communicatively coupled to the computer and send a response indicating if any devices in the list of devices are not communicatively coupled to the computer.

Other embodiments may include a peripheral device driver on a system such as a system . The device driver in such embodiments is operable to retrieve property data from a peripheral device upon connection to the bus such as at system startup or upon a hot plug event. The device driver in such embodiments is further operable to determine if the peripheral device is authorized for use with the system and to initialize the peripheral device if it is authorized. In some embodiments determining if the peripheral device is authorized includes determining if a serial number of the peripheral device included in the retrieved property data is included in a list of authorized peripheral devices stored in the memory. The list of authorized peripheral devices in such embodiments may identify authorized functions that may be performed with regard to the peripheral device. The authorized functions may include less than all of reading writing deleting and updating data with regard to the peripheral device. In such embodiments the device driver allows only authorized functions to be performed with regard to the peripheral device.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

