---

title: Air conditioning system
abstract: An air conditioning system that includes desiccant compartments for holding a desiccant; a heat exchanger, a blower and a vessel. The heat exchanger can be filled with a heat transfer medium, while the blower blows ambient air by the heat exchanger such that the blown air is cooled and the heat exchanger is warmed such that thermal energy increases and is transferred from the air to the heat transfer medium causing the heat transfer medium to turn into vapor. The vapor is then diffused to one of the desiccant compartments such that the vapor is adsorbed onto the desiccant creating a mixture. Then an energy source is applied to the mixture such that the vapor and desiccant are separated. The separated vapor is transported to the vessel where it is condensed and then sent back to the heat exchanger, such that the system is able to be continuously operating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836723&OS=07836723&RS=07836723
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07836723
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080610
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor. The technology described herein was a subject invention under Cooperative Research and Development Agreement NCRADA NAWCADPAX 07 121 A01 with OxiCool Inc.

The present invention relates to an air conditioning system. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a closed loop continuously rechargeable solid adsorption air conditioning system.

When sleeping at night drivers of large trucks that operate over long distances and travel for many days often utilize sleeper compartments built into their truck cabin. This reduces the cost of lodgings while allowing truckers to sleep in rest areas on highways thereby eliminating the need to detour off their routes to find and return from overnight lodging. Maintaining comfortable cabin temperatures during warm evenings however often means running the truck engine throughout the night to power the truck air conditioner. This uses considerable fuel decreases engine life by continual operation provides a continual source of environmental pollutants and diminishes driver health by exposing the driver to elevated levels of the pollutants during sleep. In addition the continuous vibration increases mechanical fatigue on truck tractor components thereby decreasing time between repairs. Not running a truck air conditioner can lead to increased driver fatigue due to poor sleep or increased operating costs use of motels hotels .

Military vehicles such as tanks or armored personnel carriers must also run vehicle engines or auxiliary power units to maintain internal air conditioning. Providing an auxiliary cooling system that does not rely on diesel fuel presents a smaller infrared signature and improves battlefield survivability.

Adsorption cooling has been known for several years particularly units that utilize zeolite. The units tend to be very large too large for use on vehicles and take a long period of time to recharge. The zeolite and refrigerant must be cooled and typically this takes an extended period of time.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for an air conditioning system able to operate independently of a vehicle engine.

The present invention is directed to an air conditioning system that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to an air conditioning system that includes at least two desiccant compartments for holding a desiccant at least one heat exchanger a blower a refrigerant reservoir for holding refrigerant and a coolant reservoir for holding coolant. The blower is for blowing ambient air by the heat exchanger such that the blown air is cooled and the heat exchanger is warmed such that thermal energy increases and is transferred from the air to the refrigerant causing the refrigerant to turn into vapor the vapor is then diffused to one of the desiccant compartments such that the vapor is adsorbed onto the desiccant creating a mixture. An energy source is applied to the mixture such that the vapor and desiccant are separated. The coolant is for cooling the desiccant after the vapor and desiccant are separated.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an air conditioning system that is able to be utilized in a vehicle and is able to operate independently of a vehicle engine.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an air conditioning system that will not utilize any toxic components.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an air conditioning system that will reduce carbon emissions from vehicles employing the system as well as reducing a vehicle s infrared signature.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an air conditioning system that will improve driver health by reducing exposure to pollutants during sleep extend the useful life of a truck engine eliminate the release of air conditioner fluorocarbons and reduce fuel consumption during truck operation.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an eco friendly air conditioning system that can operate effectively for an extended period of time.

It is an additional feature of the present invention to provide an air conditioning system that provides continuous cooling to an enclosed space utilizing a forced convection system based on desiccant based adsorption.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . The air conditioning system includes at least two desiccant compartments for holding a desiccant preferably three desiccant compartments at least one heat exchanger preferably three heat exchangers an air blower a refrigerant reservoir for holding refrigerant and a coolant reservoir for holding coolant . The heat exchangers are able to be filled with a refrigerant . The blower is for blowing ambient air by the heat exchangers such that the blown air is cooled and the heat exchangers are warmed such that thermal energy increases and is transferred from the air to the refrigerant causing the refrigerant to turn into vapor the vapor is then diffused to one of the desiccant compartments such that the vapor is adsorbed onto the desiccant creating a mixture. An energy source preferably heat is applied to the mixture such that the vapor and desiccant are separated. The separated or desorbed vapor is transported via piping into and through the coolant reservoir where it is condensed then the condensate is sent to the refrigerant reservoir then sent back to the heat exchanger s such that the system is able to continuously operate. The coolant is drawn from the coolant reservoir and passes via piping into the desiccant compartment such that the previously separated desiccant is cooled.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a vehicle air cooling environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of an air conditioning system. The system may be mounted on the rear of a truck sleeper compartment at or near the undercarriage of the vehicle or any location or position practicable.

Each desiccant compartment may be a tank container receptacle or structure for holding a solid liquid or gas. The desiccant compartment may be manufactured from any material practicable. shows three desiccant compartments however the system may utilize as little as two desiccant compartments and as many as required or desired. The desiccant compartment may include perforations to facilitate the free and efficient movement of the vapor. The preferred desiccant compartment includes a compartment wall and compartment tubing . In one of the embodiments the compartment wall may include an outer skin and an inner skin which together create an air channel . The inner skin may include the perforations or utilize a sieve system to allow the vapor to flow freely into and out of the air channel . The compartment tubing passes through the desiccant compartment and can carry a cooling gas or liquid coolant for cooling the contents of the desiccant compartment or hot gas or liquid heat for heating the contents of the desiccant compartment . The compartment tubing does not allow intermixing of the contents of the compartment tubing with the vapor and or desiccant disposed within the desiccant compartment . The compartment tubing may include valves to control the flow of any fluids in the compartment tubing . The compartment tubing may be manufactured from any type of material that is practicable. The compartment tubing may pass through the desiccant compartment in a straight line or in a serpentine manner as shown in . As shown in the tubing may include fins disposed around the circumference of the compartment tubing to increase heat transfer.

The desiccant compartment may be a replaceable desiccant cartridge that can be easily removed or attached. The desiccant cartridge may have a circular cross section as shown in or a rectangular or square cross section as shown in . As discussed earlier the compartment tubing within the desiccant cartridge may be straight or serpentine . As shown in the desiccant cartridge may include a compartment wall or shell as previously described a desiccant case containing the desiccant disposed within the compartment wall rings a cap and a compartment tubing aperture .

The system may also include a vacuum pump connected to the desiccant chambers via vacuum piping and valves . A vacuum pump may be defined as any pump used to evacuate an enclosure. This vacuum pump may be used to maintain the low pressure environment as and when required or it can be used for drawing vacuum after a maintenance cycle.

A desiccant may be defined as but without limitation as a drying agent. Examples of desiccant that can be utilized are amorphous silica gel diatomaceous earth calcium aluminosilicate clay molecular sieves and activated carbon. The preferred desiccant is zeolite however any type of desiccant that is practicable can be used. A zeolite may be described but without limitation as hydrous aluminum silicate in porous granules. Possible zeolites that can be utilized are but without limitation analcime chabazite heulandite natrolite phillipsite and stilbite.

A heat exchanger may be defined but without limitation as a cooler or a device used to transfer heat between two fluids or items without direct contact between them. The heat exchangers may be manufactured from an aluminum alloy with an inner nickel coating however the heat exchangers may be manufactured from any type of material practicable. The heat exchangers along with any corresponding piping and valves may be calibrated such that they correspond with the number and size of the desiccant compartments . The heat exchangers may be computer controlled. Each heat exchanger may include a boiling chamber and a shell . The boiling chamber may hold the refrigerant while the shell is the outer covering of the heat exchanger and creates an air passage for the air being cooled to pass through. Each heat exchanger may also include an injector or spray nozzle for spraying refrigerant into the boiling chamber of the heat exchanger .

A refrigerant and a coolant may be defined but without limitations as a heat transfer medium or fluid that supplies or carries away energy from an item or the medium in which heat is being transferred and energy storage and conversion may occur. The refrigerant and or coolant may be inert or reactive single phase or multi phase. The preferred refrigerant and coolant is water however air oil glycol any combination of heat transfer media or any type of heat transfer medium deemed practicable can be used.

The air blower may be powered by an external or internal battery electricity an engine or by any practicable means. The air blower may be any type of device that moves or displaces air or any type of fluid.

The refrigerant reservoir and the coolant reservoir may be a tank container receptacle or structure for holding a fluid. They may be manufactured from any material practicable.

The system may also include associated piping between each of the components such as but without limitation between the heat exchangers and the desiccant compartments between the desiccant compartments and the refrigerant reservoir . The system may also include valves throughout the piping so that the flow of any fluids can be stopped or controlled in the individual piping . The valves may be computer controlled such that once a particular desiccant compartment is up to its maximum capacity of the mixture of heat transfer medium vapor and desiccant that particular corresponding valve is closed and the corresponding valve to next available desiccant compartment desiccant compartment that is not up to its maximum capacity is opened such that the process can continue. This process can continue such that the system may be in operation for an extended period of time.

The associated piping may be manufactured from any material that can be used to transport fluids. Particularly there may be refrigerant piping which carries the refrigerant from the refrigerant reservoir into the boiling chamber of the heat exchanger . Vapor piping carries the vapor from the boiling chamber into the desiccant compartment . After desorption desorption vapor piping carries the vapor out of the desiccant compartment through the coolant reservoir and into the refrigerant reservoir . Coolant piping carries the coolant from the coolant reservoir to the desiccant compartment and into the compartment tubing . Coolant exiting the compartment tubing travels via coolant reservoir piping into the coolant reservoir . The system may include a refrigerant pump and a coolant pump for moving the refrigerant and coolant through the system. As shown in the refrigerant pump may be disposed along the refrigerant piping while the coolant pump may be disposed along the coolant piping . The pumps ensure that the refrigerant and coolant flow forward within the system. The pumps may be computer controlled to determine the appropriate speed for maximum efficiency of the system. The tubing may include flexible tubing as shown in . There may be flexible tubing disposed at the refrigerant piping and the vapor piping . As shown in the desiccant cartridge as well as the desiccant compartment may also include a piping inlet that connects the desiccant cartridge or desiccant compartment to the desorption vapor piping and the vapor piping . Valves may be disposed along this piping in order to control appropriate flow and function.

The entire system may be disposed within an enclosure with a cooling duct which directs the cooled air out of the enclosure toward and to the area that is to be cooled. In one of the embodiments the air blower directs the air toward and through each heat exchanger and out the cooling duct which directs the air toward the area to be cooled. In another embodiment the heat exchangers and air blower may be disposed inside the cab of a vehicle while the rest of the system may be disposed on the chassis of the vehicle. In another embodiment as shown in the heat exchangers and related piping may be disposed within a heat exchanger enclosure where flexible tubing is disposed right outside the heat exchanger enclosure particularly at the vapor piping and refrigerant piping entrance areas into the heat exchanger enclosure . Alternatively the system may be within a combination of two or more enclosures.

In operation as shown in the heat exchangers are filled with a refrigerant refrigerant from the refrigerant reservoir via refrigerant piping preferably water and each desiccant compartment is filled with desiccant preferably zeolite. The air blower blows ambient air by or across the first heat exchanger A the air passes through the air passage of the first heat exchanger A such that the blown air is initially cooled and dehumidified the air then via air piping is transported to and passes by or across the second heat exchanger B via the air passage of the second heat exchanger B until the air passes by or across all the heat exchangers and enters the area being cooled via an air or cooling duct . The area being cooled may be but without limitation a sleeping compartment in a truck cabin a driver and passenger cabin the interior of a tank a ship s cabin or the like. There may be valves along the piping to control which heat exchangers are to be used. This may be controlled manually or via computer. In this process each heat exchanger as well as the refrigerant disposed within each heat exchanger is warmed and boiled. Thermal energy increases and is transferred from the air to the refrigerant . The refrigerant is then turned into vapor and then the vapor is diffused from the heat exchangers into one of the desiccant compartments via vapor piping . Each successive heat exchanger cools the air further. The vapor enters one of the desiccant compartments the one that is determined to be in use via vapor piping and is adsorbed onto the desiccant creating a mixture. The heat of adsorption is released through the compartment wall of the desiccant compartment or into the compartment tubing to complete the transfer of energy through the system. Adsorption may be defined but without limitation as the ability of a substance to hold or concentrate gases or liquids upon its surface. An energy source is applied to the mixture such that the vapor and desiccant are separated. The preferred energy source is heat however any other type of energy source practicable may be used. If heat is used it can be but without limitation external heat solar heat waste engine heat or heat from an auxiliary heating unit such as a diesel heater. This heat can be transferred to the desiccant through compartment walls or through compartment tubing . As shown in the heat enters a heat inlet then toward and into the compartment tubing which passes inside the desiccant compartment and heats the mixture and then exits through an exhaust . The heat may be exhaust heat from the vehicle or from diesel heater. There are valves disposed along the piping such the same pipes can be utilized for the coolant and the heat.

The separated vapor of the refrigerant is then diffused toward the cooling reservoir via desorption vapor piping . Via desorption vapor piping the vapor passes from the desiccant compartment then through the cooling reservoir and through the coolant within the coolant reservoir where the vapor is cooled and condenses and then is transported to the refrigerant reservoir to await being transported back to the first heat exchanger A to continue the cycle. After desorption the desiccant and vapor are separated and the water vapor is transported from the desiccant compartment coolant from the coolant reservoir via coolant piping and compartment tubing passes through the desiccant compartment and cools the desiccant disposed within the desiccant compartment . The coolant is then transported via coolant reservoir piping back to the coolant reservoir . Once the desiccant is cooled to an appropriate temperature the desiccant compartment is ready to be utilized again.

After the vapor is adsorbed onto the desiccant in one of the desiccant compartments and that particular desiccant compartment is up to its maximum capacity for holding the mixture vapor from the boiling chamber of the last heat exchanger will enter the next desiccant compartment . This may be computer controlled via a valve system. The desiccant compartment must be recharged and this is done by heating the mixture and creating desorption of vapor from the desiccant then cooling the desiccant . Zeolite is the preferred desiccant and desorption occurs when the zeolite reaches a certain temperature and is unable to adsorb the vapor.

Each desiccant compartment can be sized such that it can provide cooling for a time period allowing the previously used desiccant compartment to recharge i.e. the vapor to be separated from the desiccant and diffused from the desiccant compartment and the desiccant cooled . Multiple desiccant compartments may be utilized according to needs and requirements. Entry of the vapor into individual desiccant compartments may be controlled by closing and opening corresponding valves . This may computer controlled.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

