---

title: Techniques for presenting vehicle-related information
abstract: An apparatus for presenting a time-variant information element in a vehicle, which has a steering wheel (), comprises one or more remotely and individually controllable tactile pads (), which produce a tactile sensation in response to a respective pad output signal, which is produced by a controller (CTRL). The tactile pads are positioned or adapted to be positioned on the steering wheel () or proximate to it, such that they can be touched by at least one hand () of the vehicle driver while driving the vehicle. The apparatus further comprises means for determining the time-variant information element to be presented and for applying the determined time-variant information element to the controller and means for encoding the determined time-variant information element by the controller into temporal variations of the one or more pad output signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026798&OS=08026798&RS=08026798
owner: Senseg Ltd.
number: 08026798
owner_city: Helsinki
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20081003
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application No. PCT FI2008 050550 filed Oct. 3 2008 and published in English as WO 2010 037894 on Apr. 8 2008 which application and publication are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to methods and apparatuses for presenting vehicle related information. An illustrative but non exhaustive list of appropriate vehicles includes cars trucks yachts and ships.

Today s cars or other vehicles produce large amounts of vehicle related information. A prime example of such information is the vehicle s speed. Vehicle speed information is normally displayed by a speedometer which is a visual instrument. A problem with visual instruments is that they prevent at least temporarily the driver from focusing their eyes on the road when the driver needs to read the speed information. Attempts to solve this problem have been based on constant speed controllers speed limiters and aural alert systems all of which exhibit certain problems. For instance the constant speed controllers keeps the vehicle speed constant even when the driver falls asleep. Speed limiters prevent the driver from exceeding the preset speed even in cases where this might be desirable to avoid an accident. Aural alert systems are susceptible of being deactivated as the driver may find such systems too distracting.

An object of the invention is to develop an information presentation apparatus and method that alleviates one or more of the problems identified above. The object of the invention is achieved by methods and apparatuses as defined in the attached independent claims. The present patent specification and the dependent claims relate to specific embodiment and features which are not mandatory but provide additional benefits.

An aspect of the present invention is a method for presenting a time variant information element in a vehicle which has a steering wheel. The method comprises

The act of providing the steering wheel with the one or more remotely and individually controllable tactile pads can be accomplished by attaching or integrating the tactile pad s on or into the steering wheel. Alternatively the tactile pad s can be mounted on a separate support device such that the tactile pad s can be reached by the vehicle driver s finger s while the driver s hands are on the steering wheel.

By means of the invention the time variant information element is presented to the driver via a tactile sensation.

An illustrative but non exhaustive list of appropriate time variant information elements comprises the vehicle s speed an indication of a current speed limit or a change of the current speed limit wherein the current speed limit may be indicated by a navigation device in the vehicle or coupled to it a deviation of the vehicle s speed from the current speed limit a deviation from a normal range in one or more running parameters of an engine of the vehicle or the like.

Another aspect of the invention is an apparatus for implementing the above method. The apparatus comprises one or more remotely and individually controllable tactile pads which produce the tactile sensation under control of the controller. The tactile pads are positioned or adapted to be positioned on the steering wheel such that they can be touched by at least one hand of the vehicle driver while driving the vehicle. The apparatus further comprises means for determining the time variant information element to be presented and for applying the determined time variant information element to the controller and means for encoding the determined time variant information element by the controller into temporal variations of the one or more pad output signals.

Even one tactile pad may provide the driver with useful information. For instance the tactile pad may draw the driver s attention to a visual information display which presents a more detailed information. Normally when a vehicle s information presentation system needs to alert the driver an acoustic alert is used. But acoustic alerts may needlessly alert the passengers and they are ineffective if the driver is hearing impaired. A single tactile pad positioned next to the driver s hand when the hand is in normal driving position may alert the driver without distracting other persons in the vehicle.

More detailed information can be presented by using multiple tactile pads. In one specific embodiment the apparatus comprises a plurality of remotely and individually controllable tactile pads and the encoding comprises encoding the information element to a simultaneous set of states of the tactile pads. This means that the information element to be presented is not presented by any individual tactile pad but by the combination of the tactile pads.

Considering the fact that normal healthy persons have ten fingers a steering wheel provided with 10 individually controllable tactile pads could in theory display 2 1024 different state combinations assuming that each tactile pad has two states activated or deactivated . Yet it is hardly realistic to assume that a typical driver could mentally decipher the meanings of such a large number of state combinations. Accordingly a more practical approach involves binary encoding the information element to be presented into a small number of tactile pads such as two three or four. For example two tactile pads might encode four different speed ranges such as 0 5 5 10 10 15 and above 15 km h above the current speed limit. If neither pad is activated the vehicle s speed is not more than 5 km h above the speed limit. If both pads are activated the vehicle s speed exceeds the speed limit by more than 15 km h.

Another practical approach involves an encoding scheme wherein the information element such as vehicle speed has a current value eg 85 km h and a current range eg 80 120 km h and the encoding comprises 1 assigning a portion of the current range to each tactile pad 2 activating the one of the tactile pads whose assigned range includes the current value of the information element. If ten tactile pads are used as a linear array which is roughly analogous to a discrete analogue indicator each tactile pad corresponds to a portion of 4 km h of the range 120 80 40 km h . Thus in a simple implementation in which only one tactile pad is indicated at a time the resolution of a linear array is the range here 40 km h divided by the number of tactile pads here 10 .

The resolution can be doubled by means of an embodiment wherein the encoding further comprises activating two neighbouring tactile pads simultaneously if the current value of the information element is within some predetermined margin from the average value of the union of the velocity ranges associated to the two neighbouring tactile pads. In the previous example wherein each tactile pad corresponds to a range portion of 4 km h if the vehicle s determined speed differs from the average value of the union of the velocity ranges associated to the neighbouring tactile pads the two neighbouring tactile pads can be activated. In this implementation one specific tactile pad positioned under one finger may be activated if the vehicle s speed is 80 81 82 or 83 km h. Its next neighbour may be activated if the vehicle s speed is 84 85 86 or 87 km h. Simultaneous activation of these two tactile may indicate that the vehicle s speed is 83 or 84 km h.

It is beneficial to provide the apparatus with one or more static formations such as humps peaks ridges or notches positioned so as to guide the vehicle driver s fingers to the tactile pads. By indicating the positions of the tactile pads the static formations inherently indicate the value ranges assigned to the tactile pads. The static formations may be spatially distinct from the tactile pads or partially overlap some or all of them.

The tactile pads may indicate the information element continuously or for a limited predetermined period of time in response to a detected sufficiently large change of the value of the information element and or a detection of a predetermined act of the vehicle driver.

The one or more tactile pads may be implemented as mechanical stimulus generating devices such as micro solenoids or they may be implemented as capacitive electro sensory interface devices. Yet further the one or more tactile pads may be implemented as a device having means for moving a formation to one of multiple different positions according to the determined time variant information element.

An illustrative but non exhaustive list of appropriate time variant information elements to be indicated by embodiments of the present invention includes the vehicle s speed indication of a current speed limit or a change thereof as determined by a navigation device a deviation of the vehicle s speed from the current speed limit wherein the current speed limit is determined by a navigation device and a deviation from a normal range in one or more running parameters of an engine of the vehicle. Some kind of hysteresis may be employed to provide a reasonably stable indication.

The high voltage amplifier is driven by an input signal IN which results in a substantial portion of the energy content of the resulting Coulomb forces to reside in a frequency range to which the Pacinian corpuscles are sensitive. For humans this frequency range is between 10 Hz and 1000 Hz preferably between 50 Hz and 500 Hz and optimally between 100 Hz and 300 Hz such as about 240 Hz. The frequency response of the Pacinian corpuscles is further discussed in connection with .

It should be understood that while tactile is frequently defined as relating to a sensation of touch or pressure the electrosensory interface according to the present CEI when properly dimensioned is capable of creating a sensation of vibration to a body member even when the body member does not actually touch the insulator overlaying the electrode . This means that unless the electrode and or insulator are very rigid the pulsating Coulomb forces between the electrode and body member particularly the Pacinian corpuscles may cause some slight mechanical vibration of the electrode and or insulator but the method and apparatus according to the CEI are capable of producing the electrosensory sensation independently of such mechanical vibration.

The high voltage amplifier and the capacitive coupling over the insulator are dimensioned such that the Pacinian corpuscles or other mechanoreceptors are stimulated and an electrosensory sensation a sensation of apparent vibration is produced. For this the high voltage amplifier must be capable of generating an output of several hundred volts or even several kilovolts. In practice the alternating current driven into the body member has a very small magnitude and can be further reduced by using a low frequency alternating current.

A benefit of the capacitive coupling between the electrode and the electrically conductive tissue underneath the skin surface which is known as the Corneus Layer and which contains the Pacinian corpuscles is that the capacitive coupling eliminates high local current densities to finger tissue which would result from contact that is conductive at direct current.

It is beneficial although not strictly necessary to provide a grounding connection which helps to bring the subject to be stimulated such as the user of the apparatus closer to a well defined non floating potential with respect to the high voltage section of the apparatus. In the embodiment shown in the grounding connection denoted by reference numeral connects a reference point REF of the high voltage section to a body part which is different from the body part s to be stimulated. In the embodiment shown in the reference point REF is at one end of the secondary winding of the transformer while the drive voltage for the electrode s A B C is obtained from the opposite end of the secondary winding.

In an illustrative implementation the apparatus is a hand held device which comprises a touch display activated by finger s . The grounding connection terminates at a grounding electrode . An illustrative implementation of the grounding electrode is one or more ground plates which are arranged such that they are conveniently touched one hand of the user while the apparatus is manipulated by the other hand. The ground plate s may be positioned on the same side of the apparatus with the touch display and next to the touch display or it they may be positioned on adjacent or opposite side s from the side which comprises the touch display depending on ergonomic considerations for example.

In real world apparatuses the coupling between the reference point REF and the non stimulated body part may be electrically complex. In addition hand held apparatuses typically lack a solid reference potential with respect to the surroundings. Accordingly the term grounding connection does not require a connection to a solid earth ground. Instead the grounding connection means any connection which helps to decrease the potential difference between the reference potential of the apparatus and a second body member distinct from the body member s to be stimulated. This definition does not rule out any capacitive parallel or stray elements so long as the grounding connection helps bring the user of the apparatus along with the non stimulated body part to a potential which is reasonably well defined with respect to the high voltage section of the apparatus. A capacitive grounding connection will be discussed in connection with . In the present context the reasonably well defined potential should be understood in view of the voltage OUT which drives the electrode s A B C. If the electrode drive voltage OUT is say 1000 V a potential difference of say 100 V between the users body and the reference point REF may not be significant.

The non capacitive coupling between the reference point REF of the high voltage section and the non stimulated body part greatly enhances the electro sensory stimulus experienced by the stimulated body part . Conversely an equivalent electro sensory stimulus can be achieved with a much lower voltage and or over a thicker insulator when the non capacitive coupling is being used.

The amplifier is driven with a high frequency signal which is modulated by a low frequency signal in a modulator . The frequency of the low frequency signal is such that the Pacinian corpuscles which reside in the electrically conductive tissue underneath the skin surface are responsive to that frequency. The frequency of the high frequency signal is preferably slightly above the hearing ability of humans such as 18 to 25 kHz more preferably between about 19 and 22 kHz. If the frequency of the signal is within the audible range of humans the apparatus and or its drive circuit may produce distracting sounds. On the other hand if the frequency of the signal is far above the audible range of humans the apparatus drives more current into the member . A frequency of about 20 kHz is advantageous in the sense that components designed for audio circuits can generally be used while the 20 kHz frequency is inaudible to most humans. Experiments carried out by the inventors suggest that such modulation is not essential for the CEI. Use of a high frequency signal with low frequency modulation such as the one schematically shown in as opposed to a system which relies on the low frequency signal alone provides the benefit that the relatively high alternating voltage a few hundred volts or a few kilovolts can be generated with a relatively small transformer .

Terms like frequency or kHz should not be understood such that the high or low frequency signals are restricted to sinusoidal signals and many other waveforms can be used including square waves. The electrical components such as the modulator amplifier and or transformer can be dimensioned such that harmonic overtones are suppressed. The inventors have discovered that pulses with durations of 4 ms approximately one half cycle of the low frequency signal or longer can be readily detected and with a practical insulator thickness the peak to peak voltage in the electrode needs to be at least about 750 V. Unloaded peak to peak voltage measured in the electrode should be in the range of approximately 750 V 100 kV. Near the lower limit of this voltage range the insulator thickness may be 0.05 1 mm for example. As material technology and nanotechnology develop even thinner durable insulating surfaces may become available. This may also permit a reduction of the voltages used.

The elements of described so far produce a steady state electrosensory sensation as long as the body member such as the finger is in the vicinity of the electrode . In order to convey useful information the electrosensory sensation must be modulated. In some simple embodiments such modulation can be implemented by positioning the electrode such that useful information is conveyed by the fact that the finger can sense the presence of the electrode . For example the electrode can be positioned over a switch or in the vicinity of it such that the switch can be detected without having to see it.

In other embodiments such information carrying modulation can be provided by electronically controlling one or more operating parameters of the inventive apparatus. The information carrying modulation should not be confused with the modulation of the high frequency signal by the low frequency signal the purpose of which is to reduce the size of the transformer . In the schematic drawing shown in such information carrying modulation is provided by controller which controls one or more of the operating parameters of the inventive apparatus. For instance the controller may enable disable or alter the frequency or amplitude of the high or low frequency signals the gain of the amplifier or it may controllably enable or disable the power supply not shown separately or controllably break the circuit at any point.

A benefit of the embodiment shown in is that virtually all the drive circuitry including the high voltage amplifier controller and switch matrix can be integrated into a common enclosure which is denoted by reference numeral . In this embodiment only the electrodes A B and C and a single connecting wire for each electrode are outside the enclosure . As stated earlier the electrodes need to be nothing more than simple conducting or semi conducting plates covered by appropriate insulators. Therefore the enclosure can be positioned in virtually any convenient position because the only elements external to it are very simple electrodes and connecting wires and in some implementations a power supply not shown separately .

Some prior art systems provide direct stimulation of nerves via galvanic current conduction to the outermost layer of the skin. Because of the galvanic current conduction such systems require two electrodes to stimulate an area of skin. In contrast to such prior art systems the embodiment described in connection with involves multiple electrodes A B and C but each electrode alone stimulates a distinct area of skin or more precisely the mechanoreceptors including the Pacinian corpuscles underlying the outermost layers of skin. Therefore a configuration of n electrodes conveys n bits of information in parallel.

The relative sensitivity at various frequencies is remarkably similar to the one published in section 2.3.1 FIG. 2.2 of Reference document 1. Reference document 1 relates to vibrotactile mechanical stimulation of skin but the similarity of the frequency response shown in to the one published in Reference 1 suggests that the present CEI operates such that the electrode and the sensitive member see form a capacitor over the insulator and in that capacitor the oscillating Coulomb forces are converted to mechanical vibrations which are sensed by mechanoreceptors including the Pacinian corpuscles. The inventors have also studied an alternative hypothesis wherein the Pacinian corpuscles are stimulated by current flowing through them but this hypothesis does not explain the observations as well as the one which is based on Coulomb forces acting on the Pacinian corpuscles. However the technical CEI described herein does not depend on the correctness of any particular hypothesis attempting to explain why the CEI operates the way it does.

Reference numerals and denote the resulting Coulomb forces in the capacitive coupling between the electrode and the body member over the insulator . Because the two sides of the capacitive coupling have opposite charges the Coulomb force between the two sides is always attractive and proportional to the square of the voltage. Reference numeral denotes the actual Coulomb force while reference numeral denotes its envelope. The envelope is within the range of frequencies to which the Pacinian corpuscles are sensitive but because the Coulomb force is always attractive the envelope has two peaks for each cycle of the modulator output signal whereby a frequency doubling effect is produced. Because the Coulomb force is proportional to the square of the voltage any exemplary voltages disclosed herein should be interpreted as effective RMS values in case the voltages are not sinusoidal.

The statement that the two sides of the capacitive coupling have opposite charges whereby the Coulomb force is always attractive holds for a case in which the apparatus and the body member to be stimulated are at or near the same potential. High static charges can cause deviations from this ideal state of affairs which is why some form of grounding connection between a reference potential of the high voltage source and the body element other than the one s to be stimulated is recommended as the grounding connection helps to lower the potential differences between the apparatus and its user.

The CEI can be implemented as part of an input output peripheral device which is connectable to a data processing equipment. In such a configuration the data processing equipment can provide prompting and or feedback via electrically controllable electrosensory sensation.

The matrix of electrodes through and the switch array provide a spatial variation of the electro sensory stimulation. In other words the sensory stimulation provided to the user depends on the location of the user s body member such as a finger proximate to the CEI apparatus which is integrated to the inventive touch screen. The spatially varying sensory stimulation provides the user with an indication of the layout of the touch sensitive areas of the touch screen interface.

In addition to the spatially varying sensory stimulation the controller may direct the switch array to produce a temporally varying time dependent electro sensory stimulation which can be used for a wide variety of useful effects. For instance the temporally varying electro sensory stimulation can be used to indicate a detected activation of a touch sensitive area key press . This embodiment address a common problem associated with prior art touch screen devices namely the fact that a detection of a key press produces no tactile feedback. Prior art application level programs used via touch screen devices may provide visual or aural feedback but such types of feedback exhibit the various problems described earlier. In addition production of the visual or aural feedback from the application level program causes a burden on the programming and execution of those programs. In some implementations of the invention an interface level or driver level program provides a tactile feedback from a detected activation of a touch sensitive area by using the temporally and spatially variant electro sensory stimulation and such interface level or driver level programs can be used by any application level programs. For example the application level programs can be coupled to the inventive touch screen interface via an application programming interface API whose set of available functions includes the feedback generation described above.

The temporally and spatially variant electro sensory stimulation can also be used to change the layout of the touch sensitive areas on the fly . In hindsight this operation may be considered roughly analogous to changing the keyboard or keypad layout depending on the application program or user interface screen currently executed. However when prior art touch screen devices change keyboard or keypad layout on the fly the new layout must be somehow indicated to the user and this normally requires that the user sees the touch screen device.

Some embodiments of the inventive touch screen device eliminate the need to see the touch screen device assuming that the layout of the touch sensitive areas is sufficiently simple. For instance up to about two dozen different key legends can be indicated to the user by providing different patterns for the temporally and spatially variant electro sensory stimulation. As used herein the expression key legend refers to the fact that prior art touch screen devices which produce no tactile feedback normally produce visual cues and these are commonly called legends . In some embodiments of the present invention the function of the key legends can be provided via different patterns. For instance the following patterns can be identified with one fingertip pulses with low medium or high repetition rate sweeps to left right up or down each with a few different repetition rates rotations clockwise or anti clockwise each with a few different repetition rates.

From the above it is evident that the inventive electro sensory interface can produce a large number of different touch sensitive areas each with a distinct feel technically a different pattern for the temporal and spatial variation of the electro sensory stimulus . Hence the screen section of a conventional touch screen is not absolutely needed in connection with the present invention and the term touch device interface should be interpreted as an interface device which among other things is suitable for applications commonly associated with touch screen devices although the presence of the screen is not mandatory.

Moreover the strength of the capacitive coupling between the inventive CEI and a body member of its user or the capacitive coupling between an individual electrode or a group of electrodes and the user s body member can be determined by direct or indirect measurements. This measurement information can be utilized in various ways. For instance the strength of the capacitive coupling can indicate the body member s proximity to the electrode or it can indicate touching the electrode by the body member. Such measurement functionality can be provided by a dedicated measurement unit not shown or it can be integrated into one of the blocks described earlier such as the switch matrix . The switch matrix or the optional dedicated measurement unit can send the measurement information to the controller which can utilize it to vary the electric fields generated by the electrodes by varying the voltage or frequency. In addition or alternatively the controller may forward the measurement information or some information processed from it to a data processing equipment such as the personal computer PC shown in .

Yet further two or more inventive touch device interfaces can be interconnected via some communication network s and data processing equipment. In such an arrangement the electro sensory stimulation provided to the users of the touch screen devices may be based on some function of all users contribution to the proximity to their respective devices. In one illustrative example such an interconnection of two or more touch screen devices can provide their users with tactile feedback whose strength depends on the sum of the areas of hands touch the touch sensitive areas. This technique simulates a handshake whose strength reflects the sum of hand pressure exerted by both or all users. In another illustrative example a music teacher might sense how a remotely located student presses the keys of a simulated piano keyboard.

This voltage is lower than the drive voltage e from the voltage source. In a general case the reference potential of the apparatus may be floating as will be shown in . This arrangement further decreases the electric field directed to the body member such as finger.

For these reasons some embodiments of the invention aim at keeping the capacitance C low in comparison to that of C. At least capacitance C should not be significantly higher than C. Some embodiments aim at adjusting or controlling C for instance by coupling the reference potential of the apparatus back to the user as shown in .

Further analysis of the actual value of capacitance C shows that it can be treated as a capacitance consisting of three series coupled partial capacitances Cof the insulator material Cof the air gap between insulator and finger and Cformed by the outmost skin layer that is electrically insulating the inner conducting tissue from the environment. Each partial capacitance is given by 

Herein e is the permittivity dielectric constant of the insulating material S is the effective surface area and d is the distance between the surfaces of the capacitor. In a series arrangement of capacitances the smallest one of the individual capacitances dominates the overall value of the total capacitance C. When the body member does not touch the surface of the insulated electrode but only approaches it the capacitive coupling is weak. Thus the value of C is small and mainly determined by the air gap C. When the body member touches the surface the effective air gap is small approximately the height ridges of the fingerprint profile on the skin surface . As capacitance is inversely proportional to the distance of the conducting surfaces forming the capacitor corresponding Cobtains a high value and the value of C is determined by Cand C. Thus the effectiveness of the electro sensory stimulus generation can be enhanced by appropriate selection of insulator material particularly in terms of thickness and dielectric properties. For instance selecting a material with a relatively high dielectric constant for the insulator reduces the electric field in the material but increases the electric field strength in the air gap and skin.

Furthermore in applications where the surface is likely to be touched while the electro sensory stimulation or response is given the effectiveness of the electro sensory stimulus generation can be enhanced by optimal selection of the material that will be touched by the body member. This is particularly significant in connection with insulators which are good volume insulators insulators in the direction of the surface s normal but less so in the direction along the surface.

An insulator s insulation capability along the surface may be negatively affected by surface impurities or moisture which have a negative effect on the apparent strength of the sensation felt by the body member to be stimulated. For instance glass is generally considered a good insulator but its surface tends to collect a thin sheet of moisture from the air. If the electrode of the CEI is insulated with glass the electro sensory effect is felt in close proximity when there is still an air gap between body member and the glass surface . However when the glass surface is touched even lightly the electro sensory tends to weaken or disappear altogether. Coating the outer insulating surface with a material having a low surface conductance remedies such problems. The inventors speculate that if the surface having some surface conductivity is touched it is the conductive layer on the surface that experiences the coulomb force rather than the body member touching the surface. Instead the touching body member acts as a kind of grounding for the conductive surface layer for example via the stray capacitance of the body.

Instead of the measures described in connection with or in addition to such measures stray capacitances can be controlled by arrangements in which several electrodes are used to generate potential differences among different areas of the touch screen surface. By way of example this technique can be implemented by arranging the touch sensitive surface of a hand held device eg the top side of the device to a first potential while the opposite side is arranged to a second potential wherein the two different potentials can be the positive and negative poles of the device. Alternatively a first surface area can be the electric ground reference potential while a second surface area is charged to a high potential.

Moreover within the constraints imposed by the insulator layer s it is possible to form minuscule areas of different potentials such as potentials with opposite signs or widely different magnitudes wherein the areas are small enough that the user s body member such as finger is simultaneously subjected to the electric fields from several areas with different potentials.

In one implementation the apparatus is arranged to utilize such indication of the touching or approaching body member such that the apparatus uses a first lower voltage to detect the touching or approaching by the body member and a second higher voltage to provide feedback to the user. For instance such feedback can indicate any of the following the outline of the each touch sensitive area a detection of the touching or approaching body member by the apparatus the significance of the act to be initiated by the touch sensitive area or any other information processed by the application program and which is potentially useful to the user.

According to an embodiment of the invention a conventional touch sensitive screen can be complemented by an interface device according to the invention. Reference numeral denotes an electrode which is an implementation of the electrodes described in connection with previously described embodiments such as the electrode described in connection with . A supplemental insulator may be positioned between the touch sensitive screen and the inventive electrode in case the touch sensitive screen itself fails to provide sufficient insulation.

In addition to conventional touch screen functionality namely detection of approaching or touching by the touch sensitive areas by the user s finger the controller uses information of the position of the finger to temporally vary the intensity of the electro sensory stimulation invoked by the electrode on the finger . Although the intensity of the electro sensory stimulation is varied over time time is not an independent variable in the present embodiment. Instead timing of the temporal variations is a function of the position of the finger relative to the touch sensitive areas here A Aand A . Thus it is more accurate to say that the present embodiment is operable to cause variations in the intensity of the electro sensory stimulation invoked by the electrode on the finger wherein the variations are based on the position of the finger relative to the touch sensitive areas.

The bottom side of illustrates this functionality. The three touch sensitive area A Aand Aare demarcated by respective x coordinate pairs x x x x and x x. Processing in the y direction is analogous and a detailed description is omitted. The controller does not sense the presence of the finger or senses the finger as inactive as long as the finger is to the left of any of the touch sensitive areas A Aand A. In this example the controller responds by applying a low intensity signal to the electrode . As soon as the finger crosses the x coordinate value x the controller detects the finger over the first touch sensitive area Aand starts to apply a medium intensity signal to the electrode . Between the areas Aand A between x coordinates xand x the controller again applies a low intensity signal to the electrode . The second touch sensitive area Ais processed similarly to the first touch sensitive area A but the third touch sensitive area Ais processed somewhat differently. As soon as the controller detects the finger above or in close proximity to the area A it begins to apply the medium intensity signal to the electrode similarly to areas Aand A. But the user decides to press the touch screen at a point x within the third area A. The controller detects the finger press activation of the function assigned to the area A and responds by applying a high intensity signal to the electrode .

Thus the embodiment shown in can provide the user with a tactile feedback which creates an illusion of a textures surface although only a single electrode was used to create the electro sensory stimulus. A residual problem is however that the user has to memorize the significance of the several touch sensitive areas or obtain visual or aural information on their significance.

The operation of the embodiment shown in differs from the one described in connection with in that the controller here denoted by reference numeral applies different temporal variations to the intensity of the signal to the electrode . In this example the first touch sensitive area Ais processed similarly to the preceding embodiment or in other words the intensity of the electro sensory stimulus depends only on the presence of the finger in close proximity to the area A. But in close proximity to areas Aand A the controller also applies temporal variations to the intensity of the electro sensory stimulus. For example the significance coarsely analogous with a displayed legend of area Ais indicated by a pulsed electro sensory stimulus at a first low repetition rate while the significance of area Ais indicated by a pulsed electro sensory stimulus at a second higher repetition rate. In an illustrative example the three touch sensitive areas A Aand Acan invoke the three functions in a yes no cancel type user interface wherein the user can sense the positions of the user interface keys here the three touch sensitive areas and the indication of an accepted input only via tactile feedback. In other words the user needs no visual or aural information on the positions of the touch sensitive areas or on the selected function. The embodiment described in connection with is particularly attractive in car navigators or the like which should not require visual attention from their users.

In the embodiments shown in when the user s finger has selected the function assigned to area Aand the controller CTRL generates the high intensity electro sensory stimulus via the electrode the high intensity stimulus is sensed via any of the areas A Aand A. In other words if one finger of the user presses the area A other finger s in close proximity to the other areas Aand or Awill also sense the high intensity stimulus. In cases where this is not desirable the embodiments shown in can be combined with the multi electrode embodiment disclosed in connection with such that the signal to each of several electrodes shown in as items through is controlled individually.

It is beneficial even if not strictly mandatory to provide the area with static formations which guide the driver s fingertips to the tactile pads. For instance the static formations may take the form of pointed tips elongated ridges notches rings or any form which is distinguishable from the overall shape of the steering wheel. Unlike the individually controllable tactile pads which are dynamic in nature because they present time variant information the formations are static because the information they provide is static in relation to time. In other words as far as the present invention is concerned the principal function of the static formations is to indicate the positions of the tactile pads or a subset of them. By indicating the positions of the tactile pads or a subset of them the static formations also indicate the positions of the value ranges assigned to the tactile pads.

As stated earlier the resolution can be improved by activating two neighbouring tactile pads simultaneously in cases wherein the velocity is within some predetermined margin such as 5 km h from the average value of the union of the velocity ranges associated to the neighbouring tactile pads. For instance in the above example the encoding scheme could be as follows 

As regards the pad output section the representative bidirectional tactile pad has an output member which produces the individually controllable tactile sensation to the driver. In the present example the output member is a plunger operated by a micro solenoid which in turn is controlled by the on board controller CTRL via a pad output signal . As regards the pad input section the representative bidirectional tactile pad has an input member which the vehicle driver activates by pushing pressing or squeezing with a finger. The input member activates a switch whose state is sensed by the on board controller CTRL via a pad input signal . In the illustrated embodiment Reference numeral denotes a raised area which is an example of a static formation and contains both the output member and input member .

Reference numeral denotes an information processing block or section which implements two functions. One of the functions denoted by reference numeral is acquirement of the information element to be indicated while the other function is encoding of the information element to the state s or position s of the tactile pad s to be activated. In order to be able to acquire the information element to be indicated the information processing block may be implemented as part of the vehicle s on board data processing system or navigation system not shown separately or as shown in it may be implemented as a gateway between the on board data processing system and the controller CTRL. The bidirectional arrow between the information processing block and the controller CTRL means that the vehicle driver may use the input members of the tactile pads to select or adjust some vehicle related operating parameter which is conveyed to the information processing block . The information processing block may in turn indicate this parameter of some derivative of it via the controller CTRL and the output members of the tactile pads. An illustrative but non restrictive example of a driver adjusted parameter is the velocity range to be displayed eg 30 70 60 100 . . . while an example of a derivative of the driver adjusted parameter is the vehicle velocity within the driver selected range. For example a velocity of 12 km h in a range of 60 100 km h means an actual velocity of 72 km h.

In addition to the previously described embodiments a tactile pad can be embodied as a device having a spatially varying formation such that the spatial variation of the formation provides an indication of the current value of the information element. For instance the spatially varying formation can be a bump ridge or peak that is moved along a locus such as a portion of the steering wheel s rim. The bump ridge or peak can be moved by a motor to a position which corresponds to the current value of the information element such as the vehicle s velocity.

An illustrative but non restrictive application of the bidirectional tactile pad relates to cruise control devices constant speed controllers . For example the multiple output members might indicate the current speed to the driver via a tactile sensation as described in connection with the previous examples. Two input members might be used to control the cruise control device as follows 

Instead of the input members shown in or the input enabled CEI interface described in connections with the cruise control device can be controlled by means of virtually any conventional control keys. For instance one key may correspond to a speed increase of 2 km h and another to a speed decrease of 2 km h. During adjustment of the speed setting the current speed setting value can be indicated by the array of tactile pads in addition to a visual display.

Furthermore use of a CEI tactile pad array as a touch input device supports embodiments in which increase decrease setting commands are executed by sweeping the driver s finger or hand over the array while pressing the cruise speed setting key with the thumb or the other hand for instance an clockwise or anti clockwise sweeping gesture may respectively increase or decrease the speed setting by 2 km h and the controller may provide the driver with feedback by indicating the changed speed setting as a changed location of the activated tactile pad s . Any repetition of the sweeping gesture further increases or decrease the speed setting depending on the direction of the sweep. In a more ambitious implementation the speed setting step may depend on the speed of the sweeping gesture. For instance a slow sweeping gesture may increase the speed setting by 2 km h while a fast sweeping gesture may increase the speed setting by 5 km h.

It is readily apparent to a person skilled in the art that as the technology advances the inventive concept can be implemented in various ways. The invention and its embodiments are not limited to the examples described above but may vary within the scope of the claims.

