---

title: Methods and compositions for preparing Ge/Si semiconductor substrates
abstract: The present disclosure describes methods for preparing semiconductor structures, comprising forming a Ge layer on a semiconductor substrate using an admixture of (a) (GeH)CHand GeH; (b) GeHCHand GeH; or (c) (GeH)CH, GeHCHand GeH, wherein in all cases, GeHis in excess. The disclosure further provides semiconductor structures formed according to the methods of the invention as well as compositions comprising an admixture of (GeH)CHand/or GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between about 1:5 and 1:30. The methods herein provide, and the semiconductor structures provide, Ge layers formed on semiconductor substrates having threading dislocation density below 10/cmwhich can be useful in semiconductor devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07910468&OS=07910468&RS=07910468
owner: Arizona Board of Regents, A Body of the State of Arizona Acting for and on Behalf of Arizona State University
number: 07910468
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080604
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing date under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 933 023 filed 4 Jun. 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention described herein was made in part with government support under grant number FA9550 06 01 0442 awarded by AFOSR under the MURI and under grant number DMR 0526734 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

Elemental Ge exhibits many device advantages over pure Si. Its smaller bandgap is attractive for photodetector and modulator applications in the 1.3 1.6 m wavelength range see Oh et al. IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 38 1238 2002 Liu et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 87 103501 2005 and Kuo et al. Nature 437 1334 2005 . Transistors based on Ge should also provide greater speed performance due to higher carrier mobilities of this material. Since the manufacturing infrastructure for Si Ge technologies is well established the direct growth of Ge on Si could produce new classes of opto and microelectronic systems but such growth has been problematic. The conventional formation of mismatched 4 Ge on Si typically proceeds via the Stranski Krastanov mechanism yielding islands after deposition of 3 4 monolayers rather than relaxed continuous layers. For thick films a high roughness is obtained and threading dislocation densities of 10cmare commonly observed see Kroemer et al. J. Cryst. Growth 95 96 1989 . Carrier scattering and traps at defect sites reduce mobility in electronic devices and also increase dark current in photodetectors.

Low temperature T400 C. invariably produces rougher layers that display the classic cross hatched patterns created by strain relaxation and defect formation. The higher temperatures also increase the propensity of microcrack formation upon cooling of the samples see for example Currie et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 72 1718 1998 and Fitzgerald et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 10 1807 1992 making such approaches incompatible with back end post metallization CMOS processes. A more recent method utilizes thick graded buffers of SiGein which the Ge content is gradually increased up to 100 to relieve the misfit strain with the substrate. Typically 10 m is required to achieve acceptable levels of threading defects 10cm and a complicated chemical mechanical polishing step is necessary to produce a smooth surface making device processing expensive see Luan et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 75 2909 1999 .

Growth of Ge on Si typically proceeds via the Stranski Krastanov mechanism yielding islands after deposition of 3 4 monolayers rather than relaxed continuous layers. For thick films a high roughness is obtained and threading dislocation densities of 10cmare commonly observed eventually producing the classic crosshatched surface morphologies see Fitzgerald and Samavedam 1997 294 3 . Scattering and traps at defect sites reduce carrier mobility in electronic devices and also increase dark current in photodetectors. A variety of growth schemes have been developed in an attempt to circumvent some of these problems including i the use of a graded Si Ge buffer layer see Fitzgerald and Samavedam supra ii a two step growth in which an initial thin buffer layer is deposited at low temperature followed by the high temperature growth of the bulk material see Luan et al. supra and iii surfactant mediated epitaxy using As and Sb atomic beams see Wietler et al. 2005 87 182102 . The compositionally graded SiGebuffer layer approach has been demonstrated via UHV CVD. The Ge concentration is gradually increased as a function of layer thickness and the terminal Ge portion of the stack exhibits a defect density of 10cmand a high AFM RMS roughness of 50 nm. A post growth chemical mechanical polishing step is then conducted to reduce the surface roughness to a level that allows subsequent growth of lower defect density overlayers of the Ge material. The drawbacks of this method include excessive final film thicknesses 11 m and a relatively large residual surface roughness both of which are problematic for device fabrication. An alternative two step UHV CVD process has also been developed current state of the art to produce relaxed Ge on Si films with relatively flat surfaces. Here an initiation layer of 50 nm in thickness is first grown at low temperatures of 350 C. This layer is intended to facilitate subsequent bulk growth at higher temperatures 800 900 C. and significantly enhanced rates. In this process the excess hydrogen on the growth surface is believed to act as a surfactant thereby promoting the formation of misfit dislocations parallel to the Ge Si interface which relieve the misfit strain. The surface morphology of the resultant films reveals an AFM RMS roughness value of 0.5 nm with no sign of the crosshatch pattern attributed to strain relaxations. However defect densities of 2.3 10cmare purportedly present even after thermal cycling of the samples between 780 900 C. Further reductions in defect densities to levels as low as 2 10cmcan be obtained using this method via selective growth on oxide patterned Si wafers see Fitzgerald and Samavedam supra . In recent years more conventional surfactant based approaches have been implemented via MBE to grow Ge layers with suitable morphologies using solid sources of As or Sb. This is typically achieved by first depositing a completed surfactant monolayer on clean Si prior to growth of pure Ge. Using this method 1 m Ge thick films with defect densities of 2 10have been demonstrated at 700 C. the surface roughness was not reported in this case see Wietler et al. supra . The resultant films have been found to exhibit tensile strains as high as 0.2 due to the thermal mismatch with the Si substrate. They are also unintentionally doped by the As Sb surfactant.

These issues have prompted us to consider an alternative more straightforward approach which obviates the need for thick buffers and associated processing problems.

In one aspect the present invention provides methods for preparing a semiconductor structure comprising forming a Ge layer on a semiconductor substrate using an admixture of a GeH CHand GeH b GeHCHand GeH or c GeH CH GeHCHand GeH wherein in all cases GeHis in excess.

In a second aspect the invention provides semiconductor structures produced by the method of the first aspect.

In a third aspect the invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a silicon based semiconductor substrate and a Ge layer formed directly over the silicon based semiconductor substrate wherein the Ge layer has a threading dislocation density below 10 cm.

In a fourth aspect the invention provides methods for depositing a Ge layer on a substrate in a reaction chamber comprising introducing into the chamber a gaseous precursor comprising an admixture of a GeH CHand GeH b GeHCHand GeH or c GeH CH GeHCHand GeH wherein in all cases GeHis in excess under conditions whereby a layer comprising a Ge material is formed on the substrate.

In a fifth aspect the invention provides compositions consisting essentially of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 30.

In a sixth aspect the invention provides compositions consisting essentially of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 5 and 1 30.

In a seventh aspect the invention provides compositions consisting essentially of GeHCHand GeH CHin a ratio of 1 5 to 1 30 with GeH.

In one aspect the present invention provides methods for preparing a semiconductor structure comprising forming a Ge layer on a semiconductor substrate using an admixture of a GeH CHand GeH b GeHCHand GeH or c GeH CH GeHCHand GeH wherein in all cases GeHis in excess. The methods of the present invention utilize a range of ratios of the recited components that are compatible for growth conditions that produce selective growth or blanket growth of pure Ge material with an essentially atomically flat surface morphology and device quality defect levels.

It should be understood that when a layer is referred to as being on or over another layer or substrate it can be directly on the layer or substrate or an intervening layer may also be present. It should also be understood that when a layer is referred to as being on or over another layer or substrate it may cover the entire layer or substrate or a portion of the layer or substrate. It should be further understood that when a layer is referred to as being directly on another layer or substrate the two layers are in direct contact with one another with no intervening layer. It should also be understood that when a layer is referred to as being directly on another layer or substrate it may cover the entire layer or substrate or a portion of the layer or substrate.

As used herein the terms substantially atomically planar and essentially atomically flat means that the referenced surface has an RMS roughness value of less than about 1.0 nm as measured by atomic force microscopy according to methods familiar to one skilled in the art. Preferably that the referenced surface has an RMS roughness value of less than about 0.75 nm or an RMS roughness value ranging from about 0.2 to 1.0 nm or about 0.3 to about 0.75 nm.

The methods of the invention can be used for example to produce semiconductor structures for applications in MOSFETs HBTs optoelectronic devices and III V integration on Si. Under conditions disclosed herein we have deposited highly conformal Ge features with atomically flat surfaces and monocrystalline microstructures devoid of penetrating dislocations and threading defects. These are deposited on patterned wafers containing arrays of transistors. The Ge films were found to form readily on the Si exposed regions of the wafer such as the source and drain component of the device while no deposition whatsoever was observed on insulator covered poly silicon areas or on device sections masked by nitride based thin films. The low growth temperatures and the facile epitaxy driven mechanism afforded by the methods disclosed herein promote strain free Ge to be grown directly on the mismatched Si substrate via compensating edge type dislocation confined to the plane of the heterojunction. The morphology and crystallinity of the films produced in experiments disclosed herein were characterized by high resolution electron microscopy x ray diffraction atomic force microscopy and optical microscopy. Other deposition parameters that may be compatible with selective deposition include widely variable ratios of the GeH CH GeHCHand GeHreactants in which the GeHconcentration in mixtures involving either one or both of the metal organic compounds remains in excess.

The Ge layer can be formed as a single layer or a plurality of layers including selective growth on patterned substrates and can be formed with a total thickness ranging between 40 nm 3 microns or more. For example the Ge layer can be selectively deposited utilizing the methods described previously on a substrate having two or more surface materials wherein the first surface material comprises an elemental semiconductor material or alloy such as Si Ge or SiGe the second surface material comprises an oxide nitride or oxynitride of an elemental semiconductor material for example SiO SiN SiON Ge GeO GeON or mixtures thereof and wherein the Ge layer deposits selectively over the first surface material.

In further embodiments the Ge layer has a density of threading defects of 10 cmor less is virtually strain free and or has a substantially atomically planar surface morphology. The Ge layer can be deposited directly on the semiconductor substrate obviating the need for thick buffer layers.

In certain embodiments a Ge initiation layer can be formed on a substrate according to the methods described in the first aspect followed by changing the gas source to a second gas source essentially consisting of GeHto continue to deposit Ge on the Ge initiation layer to form the Ge layer on the substrate. Generally the Ge initiation layer can have a thickness ranging from about 50 nm to about 1000 nm preferably the Ge initiation layer has a thickness ranging from about 50 nm to about 500 nm. In other embodiments the Ge initiation layer has a thickness ranging from about 50 nm to about 250 nm. The Ge layers formed according to the preceding method can have a density of threading defects of 10 cmor less can be virtually strain free and or can have a substantially atomically planar surface morphology. The Ge layer can have a thickness ranging from 50 nm to several microns for example up to 1 10 microns.

In other embodiments the Ge layers formed according to the present methods of the invention are epitaxial. The term epitaxial as used herein means that a material is crystalline and fully commensurate with the substrate. Preferably epitaxial means that the material is monocrystalline as defined herein. The term monocrystalline as used herein means a solid in which the crystal lattice of the entire sample is continuous with no grain boundaries or very few grain boundaries as is familiar to those skilled in the art.

The semiconductor substrate can be any substrate suitable for semiconductor use including but not limited to silicon silicon on insulator SiO and Si C alloys. The semiconductor substrates can be n or p doped as is familiar to those skilled in the art for example n or p doped Si 100 . In a preferred embodiment the substrate comprises silicon including but not limited to Si 100 and various buffer layers grown on Si. While the methods of the invention do not require a buffer layer such buffer layers can be prepared with defect densities at least one order of magnitude lower than those possible in the prior art.

The methods comprise depositing the Ge layer on the semiconductor substrate which may involve introducing into a reaction chamber a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of an admixture of a GeH CHand GeH b GeHCHand GeH or c GeH CH GeHCHand GeH wherein in all cases GeHis in excess. In one embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 20. In another embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 5 and 1 30. In another embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 5 and 1 20. In yet another embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 21 and 1 30. In yet another embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 15 and 1 25.

In a further embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of a combination of GeH CHand GeHCHat a 1 5 to 1 30 ratio with GeH. In another further embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of a combination of GeH CHand GeHCHat a 1 5 to 1 20 ratio with GeH. In another further embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of a combination of GeH CHand GeHCHat a 1 21 to 1 30 ratio with GeH. In another further embodiment the admixture can be an admixture of a combination of GeH CHand GeHCHat a 1 15 to 1 25 ratio with GeH. In various non limiting embodiments the admixtures can be in ratios between 1 5 and 1 15 between 1 5 and 1 10 between 1 10 and 1 20 between 1 0 and 1 15 between 1 21 and 1 30 between 1 22 and 1 30 between 1 23 and 1 30 between 1 24 and 1 30 between 1 25 and 1 30 between 1 26 and 1 30 between 1 27 and 1 30 between 1 28 and 1 30 or between 1 29 and 1 30 or admixtures in ratios of 1 5 1 6 1 7 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 1 15.1 16 1 17 1 18 1 19 1 20 1 21 1 22 1 23 1 24 1 25 1 26 1 27 1 28 1 29 or 1 30. In various embodiments the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursors in substantially pure form in the absence of dilutants. In a further preferred embodiment the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursors as a single gas mixture. In another embodiment the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor intermixed with an inert carrier gas. In this embodiment the inert gas can be for example Hor Nor other carrier gases that are sufficiently inert under the deposition conditions and process application.

In these aspects the gaseous precursor can be deposited by any suitable technique including but not limited to gas source molecular beam epitaxy chemical vapor deposition plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition laser assisted chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition. In a further embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced by gas source molecular beam epitaxy at between at a temperature of between 350 C. and 450 C. more preferably between 350 C. and 430 C. and even more preferably between 350 to 420 360 to 430 360 to 420 360 to 400 or 370 to 380 . Practical advantages associated with this low temperature rapid growth process include i short deposition times compatible with preprocessed Si wafers ii selective growth for application in high frequency devices and iii negligible mass segregation of dopants which is particularly critical for thin layers.

In various further embodiments the gaseous precursor is introduced at a partial pressure between 10Torr and 1000 Torr. In one embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr gas source molecular beam epitaxy or low pressure CVD. In another embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr for gas source molecular beam epitaxy. In yet another embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr for gas source molecular beam epitaxy.

Further in any of the preceding aspects and embodiments thereof a second silicon based layer can be deposited over the Ge layer. For example a second silicon based layer can be deposited over the Ge layer by contacting the same with a silane such as trisilane under conditions whereby the second silicon based layer is deposited. In certain embodiments the silicon based layer comprises elemental Si preferably the silicon based layer comprises monocrystalline Si. Such silicon based layers can be deposited at unprecedented low temperatures for example about 400 to about 420 C. despite of the lower surface energy of the Ge template i.e. the Ge layer which is known to severely hinder such growth in conventional MBE based processes. The silicon based layers can have a thickness ranging from about 2 nm to about 1000 nm preferably the thickness ranges from about 2 nm to about 100 nm more preferably the thickness ranges from about 2 nm to about 50 nm or from about 2 nm to about 25 nm.

In other embodiments a high k dielectric layer can be formed over the second Si based layer according to methods familiar to those skilled in the art for depositing high k dielectric layers over a Si based layer e.g. elemental Si or Si 100 . High k dielectrics as used herein means a material having a dielectric constant greater than that of SiO. For example the high k dielectric layer can comprise SiN TaO AlO HfSiON HfO HfSiO ZrO HfZrSiO ZrSiO LaO LaAlO PZT lead zirconium titanate and mixtures thereof.

In a further aspect the present invention provides semiconductor structures made by the any one of the preceding methods of the invention.

All definitions and embodiments described above for the methods of the invention apply to the semiconductor structure aspects of the invention.

The semiconductor structure may further comprise other features as desired including but not limited to the inclusion of dopants such as boron phosphorous arsenic and antimony. These embodiments are especially preferred for semiconductor substrates used as active devices. Inclusion of such dopants into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art or by use of specialty chemicals.

In a further embodiment the semiconductor structure may further comprise varying quantities of carbon or tin as desired for a given application. Inclusion of carbon or tin into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art. The carbon can be used to reduce the mobility of the dopants in the structure and more specifically boron. Incorporation of Sn can yield materials with novel optical properties such as direct emission and absorption leading to the formation of Si based lasers and high sensitivity infrared photodetectors.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 30. In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 10 and 1 20. In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 21 and 1 30. In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeH CHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 15 and 1 25. In various non limiting embodiments the composition is present in ratios of 1 10 to 1 19 1 10 to 1 18 1 10 to 1 17 1 10 to 1 16 1 10 to 1 15 1 21 to 1 30 1 22 to 1 30 1 23 to 1 30 1 24 to 1 30 1 25 to 1 30 1 26 to 1 30 1 27 to 1 30 1 28 to 1 30 or 1 29 to 1 30 or in ratios of 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 1 15 1 16 1 17 1 18 1 19 or 1 20. In a further embodiment of all of these embodiments the composition is present in a gaseous form.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 5 and 1 30. In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 5 and 1 20. In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 21 and 1 30. In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeHin a ratio of between 1 15 and 1 25. In various non limiting embodiments the composition is present in ratios of 1 5 to 1 19 1 5 to 1 18 1 5 to 1 17 1 5 to 1 16 1 5 to 1 15 1 5 to 1 14 1 5 to 1 13 1 5 to 1 12 1 5 to 1 11 1 5 to 1 10 1 21 to 1 30 1 22 to 1 30 1 23 to 1 30 1 24 to 1 30 1 25 to 1 30 1 26 to 1 30 1 27 to 1 30 1 28 to 1 30 or 1 29 to 1 30 or in ratios of 1 5 1 6 1 7. 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 1 15 1 16 1 17 1 18 1 19 1 20 1 21 1 22 1 23 1 24 1 25 1 26 1 27 1 28 1 29 or 1 30. In a further embodiment of all of these embodiments the composition is present in a gaseous form.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeH CHin a ratio of 1 5 to 1 30 with GeH. In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeH CHin a ratio of 1 5 to 1 20 with GeH. In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeH CHin a ratio of 1 21 to 1 30 with GeH. In another embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising or consisting of GeHCHand GeH CHin a ratio of 1 15 to 1 25 with GeH. In various non limiting embodiments the composition is present in ratios of 1 5 to 1 19 1 5 to 1 18 1 5 to 1 17 1 5 to 1 16 1 5 to 1 15 1 5 to 1 14 1 5 to 1 13 1 5 to 1 12 1 5 to 1 11 1 5 to 1 10 1 21 to 1 30 1 22 to 1 30 1 23 to 1 30 1 24 to 1 30 1 25 to 1 30 1 26 to 1 30 1 27 to 1 30 1 28 to 1 30 or 1 29 to 1 30 or in ratios of 1 5 1 6 1 7. 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 1 15 1 16 1 17 1 18 1 19 1 20 1 21 1 22 1 23 1 24 1 25 1 26 1 27 1 28 1 29 or 1 30. In a further embodiment of all of these embodiments the composition is present in a gaseous form.

Ge films were grown directly on Si by gas source molecular beam epitaxy GS MBE at 350 420 C. and 5 10Torr using admixtures of either GeH CHor GeHCHand GeHat optimized molar ratios. The reaction mixture was prepared prior to each deposition by combining the pure compounds in a 100 mL vacuum flask. The total pressure was 115 Torr which is well below the vapor pressure of GeH CH 248 Torr at 25 C. or GeHCHwhich is a gas at room temperature. The flask was connected to a gas injection manifold which was pumped to 10Torr on the gas source MBE chamber. A boron doped 1 10 cm Si 100 wafer was RCA cleaned and then cleaved to a 1 cmsize that fits the dimensions of the sample stage. Each substrate was sonicated in methanol for 5 minutes dried under a stream of purified N and inserted through a load lock into the MBE chamber at a base pressure of 8 10Torr. The sample was then heated at 600 C. under UHV to remove surface contaminants until the pressure of the chamber was restored to background levels. The sample was subsequently flashed 10 times to 1000 C. for 1 second to remove any remaining contaminants and then flashed again at 1150 C. for 5 times to remove the native oxide from the silicon. To commence growth the wafer was heated to 350 420 C. as measured by single color pyrometer and the temperature was then allowed to stabilize for 5 minutes. The heating was performed by passing direct current though the samples. The precursor mixture was introduced into the chamber at a flow rate of approximately 0.08 sccm through a manual leak valve. The pressure was maintained constant 5 10Torr during growth via dynamic pumping using a corrosion resistant turbomolecular pump. The typical deposition times were 0.5 5 hours depending on the desired film thickness. Under these conditions Ge on Si films were produce with thicknesses in the range of 0.30 3 m at rates approaching 10 nm per minute.

The samples were extensively characterized for morphology microstructure purity and crystallographic properties by atomic force microscopy AFM Rutherford backscattering RBS secondary ion mass spectrometry SIMS cross sectional transmission electron microscopy XTEM and high resolution x ray diffraction XRD . The threading defects densities were estimated using an etch pit technique EPD see Luan et al supra .

Raman studies were carried out at room temperature using several laser lines. The laser beam was focused on the sample using a 100 objective. Typical incident powers were in the 1 2 mW range. The scattered light was dispersed with either an Acton 27.5 cm or an Acton 50.0 cm spectrometer equipped with 1800 and 2400 grooves mm gratings and Charge Coupled Device detectors. Photoreflectance experiments were performed at room and cryogenic temperatures using a laser wavelength of 514.5 nm. The modulating laser beam was chopped at 1 kHz. Light from a quartz tungsten halogen source was reflected off the sample dispersed through the Acton spectrometer and focused on an InGaAs detector. The AC component of the signal was extracted using standard lock in techniques. The same setup minus the halogen lamp was used for photoluminescence experiments.

The present invention involves the design and application of purpose built molecular precursors targeted to tailor the surface reactions at the growth front. This is achieved by the deposition of highly reactive compounds such as GeH CHdigermylmethane or CHGeHwith built in pseudosurfactant capabilities intended to promote layer by layer growth of smooth continuous and relaxed Ge films devoid of deleterious threading dislocations. In the initial stages of growth the deposition of the molecules proceeds via formation of edge dislocations which heal the interfacial strain associated with the pseudomorphic growth and suppress the propagation of dislocation cores throughout the layer. During subsequent growth the compound facilitates a self organized assembly of thick films with atomically flat and defect free surfaces. In the case of GeH CH the driving force for its deposition reactions is the facile elimination of robust CHbyproducts. Growth of Ge films using the CHGeHcompound proceeds via a similar mechanism and by the reaction decomposition pathway of Eq. 1 GeHCH Ge H CH 1 

It is well known that under the temperature pressure parameters described above Ge film growth using pure digermane proceeds via the classic Stranski Krastanov process by formation and coalescence of three dimensional islands ultimately leading to the creation of rough films dominated by surface undulations. Collectively our experiments demonstrate that small concentrations of the GeH CH GeHCHorganic additives can profoundly alter this conventional film growth mechanism leading to the assembly of flat strain free films with record low defect densities. The highest quality films are obtained for optimum concentration ratios of 1 10 for GeHCHand 1 15 for GeH CHin digermane.

At the onset of the deposition experiments we systematically varied the substrate temperature and the reactant concentration in the gaseous mixture to determine the optimum growth parameters and the most favorable surface reaction conditions that would yield the best possible film quality in terms of purity morphology and microstructure.

We found that the ratio of the GeH CH GeHprecursor flux had a profound effect on all of these material properties. For example growth using molar ratios in the range form 1 2 to 1 10 produced discontinuous layers with rough surfaces dominated by islands of variable size and shape. These samples were analyzed by RBS carbon resonance profiles which revealed a significant carbon contamination throughout the layers primarily in samples grown using molecular ratio of 1 2 and 1 5. This indicates that in such highly concentrated mixtures the pseudosurfactant reaction mechanism of the GeH CHcompound which is designed to proceed with complete elimination of the CHfragment as CH is compromised resulting in the incorporation of residual C H impurities. Further reduction of the compound molar ratio in the range of 1 10 1 15 yielded higher purity carbon free films with atomically smooth surfaces AFM RMS values of 0.3 nm and thickness up to 3 m. Under these conditions the growth rate and film thickness were found to depend sensitively on the growth temperature. More specifically between 430 and 350 C. the nominal rates and corresponding thicknesses were 10 5 nm min and 3 0.8 m respectively and no discernible growth was observed below 350 C. It is interesting to note that deposition reactions in the range of 450 470 C. produced films that were contaminated with carbon at levels as high as several atomic percent and exhibited relatively rough surfaces with RMS values or 3 5 nm. This is consistent with previous UHV CVD experiments of the related GeHCHcompound which yielded similar carbon incorporations.

Finally we also conducted control experiments using pure GeH in complete absence of GeH CHfrom the mixture i.e 0 1 ratio which produced films dominated by surface undulations exhibiting extremely high RMS roughness as expected. Variation in deposition conditions such as temperature pressure and compound flux rate did not yield any improvement in the film quality and all layers produced via this method were defective and rough as determined by XTEM and AFM studies. For example AFM scans of Ge films with 450 nm thickness grown at 420 C. via pure GeH exhibited an RMS roughness of 30 nm for 5 5 mareas. In contrast the roughness for films grown using the 1 15 precursor ratio was found to be 0.2 0.3 nm which is comparable with atomic step heights on Si. These results collectively indicate that the pseudosurfactant properties of GeH CHare enhanced and the film quality is optimized for reactant ratios close to 1 15 and growth temperatures in the 350 430 C. range.

AFM studies indicate that of all Ge samples grown under these conditions possess atomically flat surfaces. top shows a tapping mode image of a 400 nm Ge film grown at 420 C. using the optimal 1 15 ratio exhibiting an RMS of 0.21 nm for 5 5 mareas. Note that a Ge film of comparable thickness grown at the same conditions using pure GeH bottom shows a high roughness of 16 nm. Random and channeling RBS including carbon resonance indicate pure Ge materials perfectly aligned with the substrate. In most samples the ratio of the aligned versus the random peak heights which measures the degree of crystallinity decreases from 10 at the interface to 5 across the layer indicating a dramatic reduction in dislocation density. HR XRD scans including 224 and 004 reciprocal space maps were used to determine the average unit cell dimensions parallel a and perpendicular c to the interface plane. The results showed that all Ge films are virtually strain free which is consistent with our observation of atomically smooth surfaces. We note that several thin samples 

XTEM in phase contrast and Z contrast modes was extensively used to characterize the microstructure and morphology of the films. The bright field images revealed essentially no penetrating threading defects over an extended lateral range of 2 m independently of the layer thickness 50 850 nm . The film surface in all cases was atomically flat. High resolution images in 110 projection near the Ge Si heterojunction indicated sharp commensurate interfaces and revealed the presence of periodic edge dislocations confined to the plane of the interface. The arrows in show the location of well separated stress relieving dislocation cores. The distance between cores corresponds to an alignment of twenty nine Si rows with every twenty eight Ge rows which closely matches the ratio of the lattice constants between Si and Ge 5.657 Ge 5.431 Si 1.04 and 29 28 1.035 . This alignment perfectly accommodates the lattice mismatch between Si 100 and Ge 100 leading to layer by layer growth of stress free films with 0.2 nm RMS roughness. The edge dislocations can also be seen in the Z contrast high resolution images not shown which further confirm the presence of a well defined interface between Si and Ge. Electron energy loss nanoanalysis across the interface corroborates this interpretation of the Z contrast results and confirms a chemically abrupt transition between Si and Ge indicating no elemental intermixing and no measurable levels of impurities above the usual background.

SIMS was routinely used to determine the Ge C and O atomic profiles of representative samples with variable thicknesses grown at 350 420 C. In all cases we find that the layers consist of high purity Ge. More importantly the SIMS profiles show that the C content is at the detection limit below 3 10cm bottom of . In view of the relatively high concentration level of C in the reaction mixture 3 at with respect to Ge this finding confirms the complete elimination of CHfrom the GeH CHmolecules as expected according to the reaction GeH CH gas CH gas 2 Ge solid 2 H gas . We note that the O content through the film thickness was also at background levels. Minor C and O contamination peaks commonly observed in CVD grown materials can be also seen at the Ge Si interface in our samples. These C and O signatures vary from sample to sample indicating that C in particular may not be related to any measurable decomposition of GeH CHin the vicinity of the interface. However some C detected at impurity level concentrations could be due to side reactions of the precursor with the reactive Si surface. Nevertheless the fact that oxygen levels track those of carbon in all of our samples cannot be explained in terms of the precursor decomposition on the surface.

An etch pit density technique was used to estimate the concentration of threading dislocations in selected samples with thickness close to 0.8 m. These were etched for typically 200 sec at an average rate of 2 nm sec using a mixture of 700 mL CHCOOH 70 mL HNO 4 mL HF and 270 mg I. The resulting pits were counted from images obtained by an optical microscope . The images showed no dislocations within the first 300 400 nm over areas of 85 64 m. At 500 nm the detectable dislocation densities were found to be below 10cm and this value increased abruptly towards the interface region. This is consistent with XTEM images that show no threading defects throughout the upper portion of the film but a substantial pile up near the interface region. These images also showed atomically flat film surfaces and confirmed the RBS measured thicknesses which ranged from 0.50 2.5 m in most samples . The high resolution micrographs revealed a periodic array of Lomer type edge dislocations confined to the interface plane . These likely form in the early stages of growth and provide the necessary strain relief between the highly mismatched substrate and epilayer. Atomic resolution Z contrast images not shown confirmed the presence of edge dislocations and revealed an abrupt transition between the substrate and the epilayer. The interface roughness is less than 1 nm which appears to be similar to that of the underlying substrate. Electron energy loss nanoanalysis of the interface region indicated no elemental intermixing on the subnanometer scale. The intediffusion at these low temperatures is therefore suppressed leading to atomically sharp interfaces. No measurable levels of impurities above the usual background levels were detected by EELS.

XRD reciprocal space maps RSM in the vicinity of the 004 and 224 reflections were obtained to precisely determine the in plane a and out of plane c lattice constants for the films. The data showed that the Ge films grown by this technique were fully relaxed. This result is consistent with the atomically flat surface morphology and suggests that a layer by layer growth mechanism must be in operation in the absence of strain. The relaxation in the samples was so complete that several of the films showed a slight tensile strain upon cooling to room temperature presumably due to the thermal mismatch of Ge with the underlying Si substrate. The 224 RMS plot of a sample with 2.5 m thickness shows that the layer possesses a residual tensile strain. The full width at half maximum of the 004 Bragg reflection for this sample is approximately 400 arcseconds and the mosaic spread derived from the 224 peak is 250 arcseconds indicating slight tilt between grains. Secondary ion mass spectroscopy SIMS was also performed on selected samples produced across the entire 350 430 C. temperature regime. Samples grown at 420 C. show a carbon content of 3 10atoms per cmacross the layer which is below the noise level of the SIMS measurement see Wistey et al. J. 2007 90 8 082108 . The oxygen content in these films was similarly low and was dominated by the background level in the SIMS apparatus. We note however that at the Ge Si interface there is a sharp increase in the C and O concentrations to levels as high as 10cm as indicated by the presence of two distinct peaks corresponding to these elements. Similar features are commonly observed in CVD grown materials and they are typically associated with surface contamination. at a later section shows similar interface signatures for the C and O impurities.

The GeHCH analog of GeH CH was also explored as a potentially practical source to grow Ge films on Si at low temperatures between 360 and 420 C. The experiments were performed at constant deposition pressure of 5 10Torr using suitable mixtures of the compound with GeHat molar concentration ranging mostly from 1 5 to 1 15. The substrate preparation and sample handling procedures were essentially identical to those described above for the experiments involving GeH CH.

Preliminary depositions using a dilute reactant ratio of 1 20 GeHCH GeHproduced crystalline but visibly rough layers exhibiting a cloudy surface appearance. AFM indicated an RMS roughness of 8 9 nm and revealed a surface morphology dominated by a network of two dimensional terraces with variable size shape and orientation. This is in stark contrast to the usual three dimensional islands or surface ripples typically observed in conventional Ge growth at this temperature. To further improve the film morphology we increased the reactant molar ratio to the 1 15 and performed a series of depositions at 360 380 400 and 420 C. using this mixture. The resultant films displayed a smooth appearance indistinguishable from that of the underlying substrate indicating that the samples were flat and crystalline.

Characterizations by RBS including ion channeling indicated highly aligned layers in perfect commensuration with the substrate. In most samples the ratio of the channeled versus the random peak heights which measures the degree of crystallinity decreases from 10 at the interface to 4 across the layer indicating a dramatic reduction in dislocation density the 4 value represents the theoretical limit in pure Si . RBS carbon resonance experiments were used to confirm the absence of carbon impurities within the bulk of the material. The corresponding depth profiles using a series of ion beam energies with variable penetration depths did not reveal any measurable carbon contamination within the uncertainty of the measurement less than 0.5 at. . The RBS derived thicknesses for the Ge Si 100 layers varied from 400 nm to 600 nm with increasing temperature from 360 420 C. with a concomitant increase in growth rate from 5 to 10 nm min. respectively.

Among these samples the AFM examinations of films deposited at 400 and 420 C. revealed flat surface morphology with an RMS roughness of 0.2 nm. However the AFM images also revealed that approximately 5 of the sample surface was covered by an array of perfectly rectangular nanoscale depressions . XTEM micrographs indicate that their lateral and vertical dimensions are 100 150 and 10 15 nm respectively corroborating the surface patterns and morphologies observed by AFM. In addition the horizontal surface and vertical edges were perfectly planar and approximately orthogonal indicating that these depressions have a parallelepiped match box like shape. The low magnification XTEM images also revealed an average layer thickness of 400 nm and an overall flat surface morphology interrupted by the occasional presence of the depressions in these samples. Finally we note that by lowering the sample growth temperature into the 360 400 C. range produced samples in which the density of these depressions could be reduced to an arbitrarily low value but not entirely eliminated.

Accordingly we further increased the concentration of GeHCHbeyond the 1 15 ratio to determine its effect on the surface properties and film growth rates. Depositions using 1 10 mixtures at temperatures near 420 C. produced thick films exhibiting substantial concentrations of the match box depressions. However for this reactant stoichiometry lowering the temperature to 360 C. yielded perfectly flat films completely devoid of these features. The growth rate in this case GeHCHat 360 C. is 5 nm minute which is essentially identical to that obtained from the deposition of GeH CHat 420 C. Thus the GeHCHcompound is the best candidate to date for viable low temperature Ge growth compatible with selective area applications. Depositions using 1 5 mixtures produced comparable surface morphologies however the growth rates were significantly reduced to levels below 3 nm per minute. In the limiting case of using the pure GeHCHcompound as the sole reactant 1 0 molar ratio we obtained negligible film growth. This indicates that the Ge films in these reactions must be generated by the facile surface dissociation of the highly reactive GeH species and the role of the organic analog is to catalyze or facilitate layer by layer growth. To confirm the absence of carbon in the bulk of the film we analyzed selected samples by SIMS compositional profiles. The data showed that all materials were essentially free of carbon and displayed very similar C and O profiles to those observed previously in the related growth studies using the GeH CHcompound.

To confirm that GeH CHdoes not deposit C during growth we conducted two control experiments designed to verify that carbon does not migrate to the surface in a typical surfactant fashion. In both cases an initiation Ge layer of 250 nm was grown directly on the Si substrate using the 1 15 reactant ratio as described above.

In a first experiment a second growth step is then performed in situ immediately after completion of the first layer in order to maintain an uninterrupted growth environment and more importantly an unperturbed as grown Ge surface.

In the second experiment an overlayer of pure Ge was deposited on top of the initiation layer of Ge on Si that had been prepared as described previous. After deposition of the initiation layer the gas source was switched to pure GeH to eventually produce a thick composite film 800 nm representative of the two growth modes. We note that the growth rate during the latter stage using pure GeHis 4 5 times higher that that using the 1 15 mixture.

XTEM and AFM examinations of the full sample thickness revealed a complete continuous and monocrystalline layer with an atomically flat surface AFM RMS 0.4 nm . XTEM also showed that the microstructure throughout the growth transition region is continuous and indistinguishable form the bulk material indicating that the layer by layer growth is uninterrupted in the absence of GeH CH. SIMS profiles showed a constant Ge content throughout the entire thickness and the typical C and O impurity peaks located at the interface . In addition a small and distinct C and O signal can be seen slightly above the noise at the switchover point 250 nm above the Si Ge interface. These minor impurities likely originate from exposure of the surface to the reactor ambient during the 1 hour switch over. These results indicate that the CH fragment of the precursor is continuously eliminated as methane at the growth front and does not accumulate on the Ge surface or become incorporated into the film. Furthermore this two step process yields high growth rates 20 nm min. making the method viable for large scale fabrication.

In contrast recent growth studies of Ge on Si suggest that conventional Sb or As surfactants alter the free energy of the growth surface and promote layer by layer growth far beyond the critical thickness see Stirman et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 84 2530 2004 . These surfactants remain on the growth surface where they effectively serve a catalytic role throughout the subsequent growth process by mediating chemisorption interactions between the reactants and the surface reactant diffusion and reducing surface tension.

A pure silicon film was grown on top of a Ge initiation layer prepared according to Example 1 via decomposition of SiHSiHSiH. This compound incorporates highly reactive SiHgroups allowing the formation of monocrystalline Si at unprecedented low temperatures 400 420 C. despite of the lower surface energy of the Ge template which is known to severely hinder such growth in conventional MBE based processes.

A series of Si films with thicknesses ranging from 2 16 nm were deposited using conditions similar to those described above for the Ge growth. High resolution XTEM was used to characterize the crystallinity surface morphology and epitaxial registry of the films. shows the entire Si film thickness 5 nm including the interface region with the Ge buffer in high resolution. The microstructure appears to be fully commensurate and the layer surface atomically smooth. shows the Raman spectra of a sample with a 2.5 nm Si film on Ge. The spectrum shows features similar to the Si Ge and Si Si Raman peaks in a SiGealloy and a high energy peak that can be assigned to a pure Si layer. This peak is down shifted by about 30 cmwith respect to the Raman frequency in bulk Si which according to Eq. 1 is consistent with a strain level of 4 . A full Raman study of the growth of Si on Ge buffers will be presented elsewhere. This study indicates that the SiGealloy is confined to the immediate interface between Ge and Si and that highly strained Si films grow upon subsequent Si deposition see for a schematic interpretation of the growth .

The trisilane deposition directly on our Ge buffers described here establishes proof of principle routes for producing continuous fully pseudomorphic Si layers with tensile strained structures and atomically flat surfaces. The successful growth of crystalline Si showing a fully commensurate hetero interface unambiguously confirms that the original Ge buffer layer surface must be free of significant carbon containing impurities originating from decomposition of the organic source. These buffers should also provide an ideal platform for producing Si epilayers with record high strain states that cannot be accessed via the currently available SiGe x 0.20 counterparts due to their smaller lattice dimensions. Such materials are desirable for high mobility electronic device applications. The growth of Si directly on Ge would also create new opportunities for the development of Ge based Metal Oxide Semiconductor MOS devices see Shang et al 2006 50 377 . Additionally thin Si films can act as passivation layers for the growth of high k dielectrics on Ge see De Jaeger et al. 2005 80 26 .

Selective growth was conducted using a wafer provided by ASM America Phoenix Ariz. incorporating various device architectures including simple transistor structures and various patterns masked by amorphous nitride and oxide thin layers. The wafer was cleaved to produce substrates with suitable dimensions to fit the sample stage of the growth chamber. These were rinsed with methanol and then dipped in HF to remove the thin oxide covering the bare Si surface on the wafer while preserving the nitride masked areas essentially intact. The resulting samples were inserted into the reactor and flashed briefly for 1 sec at 1000 C. to remove any residual contamination from the surface. The Ge films were grown for 30 minutes at 370 C. and 5 10Torr using the 1 15 mixture of GeH CH GeHwhich was routinely employed for deposition directly on Si. The as deposited samples exhibited an appearance essentially identical to that of the underlying patterned wafer material. Optical microscopy revealed that the appearance of the nitride oxide masked regions was unchanged while the coloration of the Si based areas was changed from a metallic grey typical of Si to a light brownish hue indicating that selective deposition had occurred. A comprehensive characterization of the wafers by RBS XRD AFM XTEM and EDX energy dispersive x ray revealed the presence of atomically flat Ge films with single crystalline and fully relaxed microstructures throughout the sample.

The film nominal thickness was estimated by the random RBS spectra to be in the 45 50 nm range yielding an average growth rate of 2 nm per minute. The channeled spectra indicated that the material was highly aligned and commensurate with the underlying substrate. The XTEM micrograph in confirms that the deposition of Ge occurred selectively in the source and drain areas of the devices and not on the nitride spacers or on the polysilicon gate hardmask. High resolution images of the interface showed a perfect epitaxial registry between the Ge film and the surrounding Si wafer structure with typical edge dislocations accommodating the strain differential between the materials. The micrographs clearly demonstrated that the Ge deposited conformably on the sidewalls and bottom of the trench portion of the device feature entirely filling the drain source region. The perfectly flat surface morphology of the Ge layer as shown in the AFM and XTEM images is consistent with a layer by layer growth mode. We note that the polygermanium nodule that is observed at the corner of the spacer and the gate hardmask is where the wet etch broke through the hardmask enabling germanium nucleation from the underlying polysilicon. The occurrence of these nodules can be controlled by further refining the HF based etching process. Future experiments will focus on perfecting the sample preparation and growth conditions to produced relaxed and strained materials on large area substrates to enable measurements of the electrical and optical properties on entire arrays of device structures. The seamless and fully conformal growth of strained Ge in the recessed source drain regions might provide a route to extending the use of group IV materials to induce compressive strain in the silicon channel for increased hole mobility applications.

It is well known that under the temperature pressure parameters described above Ge film growth using pure digermane proceeds via the classic Stranski Krastanov process by formation and coalescence of three dimensional islands ultimately leading to the creation of rough films dominated by surface undulations. Collectively our experiments demonstrate that small concentrations of the GeH CH GeHCHorganic additives can profoundly alter this conventional film growth mechanism leading to the assembly of flat strain free films with record low defect densities. The highest quality films are obtained for optimum concentration ratios of 1 10 for GeHCHand 1 15 for GeH CHin digermane.

To elucidate how the organic derivatives influence the classic digermane growth process so dramatically we use fundamental bond energies as a guide to develop plausible surface reaction mechanisms. We proceed with the following assumptions i The low temperatures and pressures 10Torr preclude gas phase reactions amongst the various deposition species GeHCHor GeH CH and GeH ii the strong C H bonds prevent facile degradation of the GeH CHor GeH CH GeHprecursors in this temperature range iii the precursors react at the growth front by forming Ge Ge bonds with the underlying surface. This implies that they do not simply physisorb to act as kinetic dilutants or non bonded surface diffusion barriers but participate in the growth of the film via the deposition of their GeHgroups.

Simple gas kinetics dictates that the arrival rate of gaseous species at a surface is given by the classic formula J P square root over 2 mkT where P pressure T temperature m molecular mass and kis Boltzmann s constant. At a typical temperature of 360 C. and P 5 10Torr this model gives arrival rates of 70 60 and 50 molecules nm s for the pure undiluted GeH CH GeHand GeHCHcompounds respectively. For the specific case of a 1 10 mixture of GeHCHto GeHthe corresponding flux ratio is also 1 10 which indicates that a significant number of GeHCHmolecules arrive at any given time. Using a sticking coefficient 0.05 which is a typical value of GeHon Si surfaces at these conditions see Schwarz Selinger et al. 2002 65 125317 we obtain a growth rate R J a equal to 4 5 nm min where 22.7 is the volume per Ge atom in the film . The R value in this case is remarkable close to that of the growth rates obtained in the experiments described previously. However the predicted growth rate using the above formula decreases with increasing temperature in contradiction with our observation that the growth rates increase slightly in going to 420 C. This clearly indicates that higher reaction rates at 420 C. must contribute to the rate of growth.

In the case of deposition of pure GeHCHat 360 C. the lack of a measurable growth rate in spite of the significant impingement flux indicates that a certain minimum concentration of digermane is required at the growth front to activate the release of methane otherwise the accumulation of organic derivatives might lead to surface passivation and termination of growth. In a related control experiment using GeH CHat a concentration ratio of 1 2 1 5 no measurable growth was observed corroborating the notion that excess organic derivatives could lead to surface poisoning . This assumption precludes a mechanism based on a simple physisorption model and also suggests that the molecules react with the growth surface in the presence of digermane.

Accordingly we assume that in both cases the CHGeHand GeH CHreact and bond to the surface via the Ge atoms of the GeHligands. This likely involves the formation of surface intermediate species comprised GeH CHand GeH CH GeH complexes respectively which remain intact at the low growth operating temperatures of 360 420 C. due to the strong C H and Ge C bonds see . These intermediates are envisioned to be analogous in both function and size to the traditional Sb or As surfactant atoms used to produce flat Ge films grown on mismatched substrates. They promote wetting and suppress diffusion of the Ge adatoms thereby enforcing the formation of a flat surface morphology. In our experiments the surface bonded GeH CHor GeH CH GeH intermediates also promote flat layer growth by effectively serving as site holders which facilitate the organized assembly of smooth films and are continuously replenished by the incident molecular precursor flux. Unlike conventional surfactants which are admitted at the onset of growth and then recycled these organic species react and desorb CH which is generated via Ge C cleavage induced by incoming GeHreactant molecules or by Hreaction byproducts. Thus as the molar concentration of organics is increased from an optimal value to the lowest 1 0 limit the accumulation of unreacted intermediates saturates the available reaction sites preventing further Ge growth.

A similar mechanism is also operative in CVD of SiGe films on Si where adsorbed H is well known to suppress diffusion of GeHand thus promote layer by layer growth. In our system the heavier and chemically robust organic units provide an effective diffusion barrier on the time scale of Hdesorption. Furthermore the low temperature reduces the diffusion rate of mobile surface species such as H and Ge adatoms. Although the solubility of C into Ge is negligible its incorporation into the lattice as a metastable substitutional impurity is nevertheless possible at these low temperatures. However this requires breaking of multiple C H bonds which is unlikely on thermodynamic grounds under these conditions 350 420 C. 10Torr pressure .

Ultimately the elimination of the CHand CHgroups as CHis the dominant driving force in this process. This can be quantified using bond enthalpies which allow approximate calculation of the various plausible surface reactions involving these compounds on H terminated Ge surfaces which mimic the local growth environment. Although some of the required bond enthalpies are known the values involving Ge are not fully available see Bills and Cotton 1964 68 806 . For this purpose and for internal consistency in our estimates we have conducted ab initio calculations to determine the bond enthalpies involving H C and Ge binary combinations. Using the B3LYP functional at the N311 2d 2p level of theory we obtain the values listed in Table 1.

We consider three mechanisms for the reaction of the GeHCHmolecules with the Ge growth surface as shown . In reaction 1 shown below Rx1 the molecule decomposes via breaking the Ge C bond to adsorb the methyl CH and the germyl GeH fragments onto the Ge H surface. The corresponding reaction energy obtained from the bond enthalpies equals H 2 Kcal mole assuming that the entropy change for the process is zero. GeHCH 2Ge H Ge CH Ge GeH H H 2 kcal mol Rx1 The second reaction can viewed as a two step process involving the formation of a surface intermediate complex in which the CHGeHligand is bonded to the surface via the CHfunctionality Rx2a GeHCH Ge H Ge CHGeH H H 12 kcal mol Rx2a The reaction energy of this step is 12 kcal mol as shown below indicating that the formation of GeC bonds on the surface is unfavorable. In the second step the complex decomposes with the release of germane and the binding of a methyl group Rx2b Ge CHGeH H Ge CH GeH H 12 kcal mol Rx2b The net reaction energy is thus zero because the same number and type of bonds are broken and formed Rx2a Rx2b GeHCH Ge H Ge CH GeH H 0 kcal mol Rx2a Rx2b The third reaction involves a two step mechanism in which the precursor is adsorbed via the GeHfunctionality with a reaction energy of 2 kcal mol compared with 12 kcal mol in the second reaction scenario above . Here however the subsequent decomposition step releasing the extremely robust methane molecule and binding the germyl group onto the Ge surface evolves an additional 12 kcal mol. As expected this is the most favorable reaction with a net overall energy of 14 kcal mole Rx3 GeHCH Ge H Ge GeH CH H 14 kcal mol Rx3 From a chemical point of view the release of methane thus represents the dominant driving force in the growth reactions involving the CH GeHprecursor.

For the reaction GeH CH GeHcompound we consider only two plausible reaction schemes for the incoming molecules with the Ge growth surface . The first proceeds with the attachment of a single germyl group to the surface while the second involves simultaneous binding of both germyl end members to the surface. The third possibility in which the molecules binds to the surface via the central CH is highly unfavorable on energetic grounds and is not considered.

In the first case the GeHligand of GeH CH GeHattaches to the surface via a single proton transfer and releases GeHCH. This process is dominated by the breaking of one of the Ge C bonds leading to a net energy change of 24 Kcal mole note that His not evolved in this process . Since the associated entropy change is small unimolecular reaction the process is dominated by the enthalpy change and is thus highly endothermic. If we consider that the GeHCHthen reacts with the surface via methane abstraction as described by Rx3 14 Kcal Mole the net energy for the entire deposition reaction is GeH CH GeH Ge H Ge GeH GeHCH 2Ge GeH CH H 10 kcal mole. On the basis of this simple analysis growth via this decomposition route is thus unfavorable.

In the case where both GeHend members of GeH CH GeHbind to the surface as shown in we obtain a strained methylene bridged GeH CH GeH complex via the liberation of 2 Hmolecules and an energy change of 4 Kcal mole. In the next step methane is released with a corresponding reaction energy of 24 Kcal mole. The net reaction energy for this entire process is therefore 28 Kcal mole or 14 Kcal mole per GeHadsorbed. This is therefore a highly favorable route comparable to that described by Rx3 . Note that the significant bond strain associated with the methylene bridge GeH CH GeH complex is due to the small size of the carbon atoms compared to Ge and likely promotes the facile removal of the CHas methane.

To corroborate the surface reaction energies obtained from bond enthalpies we carried out a series of large scale control calculations for the GeHCHon a proton terminated Ge 001 surface using state of the art electronic structure simulations at the LDA level. A parallel implementation of the VASP code see Madelung Springer Verlag Berlin N.Y. 2001 was used to obtain all of the optimized structures and electronic properties. The hydrogen terminated Ge 001 substrate was represented by a 180 atom slab with a thickness sufficient to ensure complete bulk behavior in the interior and a large supercell dimension of 80 normal to the surface was used to minimize coupling between periodic slab replicas. To preclude the development of long range fields we adopted configurations with symmetrical molecular adsorption geometries on both sides of the slab as shown in . Core electrons were replaced by ultra soft pseudoptentials and the remaining valence electrons were expanded in a plane wave basis using an energy cutoff of 500 eV and single k point sampling at F. Unlike our simple bond enthalpy models above the large scale slab representations adopted here implicitly incorporate surface relaxation effects induced by the adsorbing molecules. This may be particularly important in the case of GeH CHadsorption since the methylene bridge GeH CH GeH complex may transfer strain from the complex to the surface. Our detailed simulations confirm that the adsorbed complex bears the majority of the distortion while the surrounding Ge substrate remains essentially unperturbed. Accordingly in this case the simple addition of bond enthalpies is fairly quantitative. In fact our calculated energies confirm the general trends predicted by the bond enthalpy calculations for all cases considered. For example in Reaction Rx2 where the methyl is adsorbed and GeHis released we find a energy change of 1 kcal mol for the overall process. This is close to zero as expected on the basis of bond formation breakage discussed above. Similarly the most energetic reaction involving the release of methane and the binding of a GeHoccurs with an energy difference of 17 kcal mol which is very similar to the value 14 kcal mol predicted using bond enthalpies. The main origin of this energy difference is the use of the LDA in the slab calculations and B3LYP treatment in the bond enthalpies. A 20 30 overbinding is typical of LDA with respect to B3LYP suggesting that bond enthalpies in Table 1 can be used as a reasonable quantitative tool for characterizing the simple surface reactions in our H C Ge system.

