---

title: Method and apparatus for linking representation and realization data
abstract: A method and apparatus for creating links between a representation, (e.g. text data,) and a realization, (e.g. corresponding audio data,) is provided. According to the invention the realization is structured by combining a time-stamped version of the representation generated from the realization with structural information from the representation. Thereby so called hyper links between representation and realization are created. These hyper links are used for performing search operations in realization data equivalent to those which are possible in representation data, enabling an improved access to the realization (e.g. via audio databases).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07954044&OS=07954044&RS=07954044
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07954044
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 09 447 871 filed Nov. 23 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 412 643 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to the field of multimedia data handling. It is more particularly directed to linking multimedia representation and realization data.

In recent years a new way of presenting information has been established. In this new multimedia approach information is presented by combining several media e.g. written text audio and video. However when using e.g. the audio data finding and addressing specific structures pages chapters etc. corresponding to the equivalent textual representation of the audio data are either time consuming complex or impossible. A solution to overcome these problems is to link text and audio. The concept of linking text and audio is already used by some information providers. However it is not widely used. One of the reasons for this is that it is a resource consuming process to build the hyper links between the audio data and the corresponding textual representation. This either means a huge investment on the producers side or a limited number of links which limits the value for the user. As a result of the limiting state of the art user queries directed to databases containing multimedia material have to be in most cases quite general. For example a user asks In which document do the words Italian and inflation occur A response to this query results in the complete audio document to be returned in which the requested data is enclosed.

Accordingly it is an aspect of the present invention to provide an enhanced method and apparatus to link text and audio data. It recognizes that most acoustic multimedia data have a common property which distinguishes them from visual data. These data can be expressed in two equivalent forms as a textual or symbolic representation e.g. score script or book and as realizations e.g. an audio stream. As used in an example of the present invention an audio stream is either an audio recording or the audio track of a video recording or similar data.

Information typically is presented as textual representation. The representation contains both the description of the content of the realization and the description of the structure of the realization. This information is used in the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for linking the representation and the realization.

Starting from a textual or symbolic representation e.g. a structured electronic text document and one or multiple realizations e.g. digital audio files like audio recording which represent the corresponding recorded spoken words so called hyper links between the representation e.g. the text and the related realization e.g. the audio part are created. An embodiment is provided such that the realization is structured by combining a time stamped or otherwise marked version of the representation generated from the realization with structural information from the representation. Errors within the time stamped representation are eliminated by aligning the time stamped version of the representation generated from the realization with the content of the original representation in beforehand.

The hyper links are created by an apparatus according to the present invention. In one embodiment it is stored in a hyper document. These hyper links are used for performing search operations in audio data equivalent to those which are possible in representation data. This enables an improved access to the realization e.g. via audio databases . Furthermore it is not only possible to search for elements of the input data e.g. words within the resulting hyper links or hyper document. But it is also possible to navigate within the resulting data e.g. the hyper document and define the scope of the playback. In this context the word navigation means things like go to next paragraph show complete section that includes this paragraph etc. In an embodiment the scope of the playback is defined by clicking a display of a sentence a paragraph a chapter etc. in a hyper link document. Thereby the segments of the realization e.g. the audio stream become immediately accessible. In accordance with the present invention these capabilities are not created through a manual process. All or part of this information is extracted and put together automatically.

The time alignment process of the present invention connects the realization domain with the representation domain and therefore allows that certain operations which are generally difficult to perform in the realization domain be shifted into the representation domain where the corresponding operation is relatively easy to perform. For example in recorded speech standard text mining technologies can be used to locate sequences of interest. The structure information can be used to segment the audio signal in meaningful units like sentence paragraph or chapter.

An aspect of the present invention enables the automatic creation of link and navigation information between text and related audio or video. This gives producers of multimedia applications a huge process improvement. On one hand an advantage is that the software creates hyper links to the audio on a word by word or sentence by sentence basis depending upon which is the more appropriate granularity for the application. Other embodiments use another basis that is appropriate for the problem to be solved. Therefore a major disadvantage of previous techniques namely the limited number of links is eliminated. On the other hand the technique of the present invention it dramatically reduces the amount of manual work necessary to synchronize a text transcript with its spoken audio representation even if the result creates a higher value for the user. It also eliminates another disadvantage of the previous techniques namely the high costs of building such linked multimedia documents.

Another aspect of the present invention is to generate a high level of detail such that applications can be enhanced with new functions or even new applications may be developed. Single or multiple words within a text can be aligned with the audio. Thus single or multiple words within a speech can be played or one word in a sentence in a language learning application or any sentence in a lesson document speech etc. can be played.

As shown in the structuring process starts from a representation and a realization . Usually both the representation and the realization are each stored in a separate file but each of the data sets may actually be distributed among several files or be merged in one complex hyper media file. In an alternate embodiment both the representation and the realization may be fed into the system as a data stream.

The representation is a descriptive mark up document e.g. the textual representation of a book or the score of a symphony. An example of a textual representation of a book marked up in Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML as defined in ISO 8879 is shown in . Thereby the SGML document comprises parts defining the structural elements of the book characterized by the tag signs . . . and the plain content of the book. Instead of SGML other markup languages e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML or LaTeX may be similarly used.

An example of a realization is an audio stream in a arbitrary standard format e.g. WAVE or MPEG. It may be for example a RIFF WAVE file with the following characteristics 22050 11025 Hz 16 bit mono. In the example the realization can be a narrated book in the form of a digital audio book.

An example of a procedure for combining representation and realization according to the present invention is illustrated in . In a first processing step the representation is fed into the structural analyzer . The structural analyzer analyzes the representation and separates the original plain representation and a structural information . The plain representation includes the plain content of the representation that is the representation stripped of all the mark up. As an example the plain representation comprising the original words of the representation is shown in .

An example for a structural information appropriate for audio books is a text with locators. Therefore in the above embodiment the structural analyzer builds a tree structure of the SGML tagged text of the audio book and creates locators which determine the coordinates of the elements e.g. words within the structure of the representation . Those skilled in the art will not fail to appreciate that the imposed structure is not restricted to a hierarchical tree like a table of contents but other structures e.g. lattice or index may be used as well.

The process of document analysis and creation of structural information as carried out in step is now described. In a tree structure with corresponding locators . . . as built during this process is illustrated for the SGML formatted example depicted in .

After the representation is obtained the SGML file is fed into the structural analyzer the structural analyzer searches start elements with the SGML tag structure . . . and stop elements with the SGML tag structure of the representation . If the event is a start element a new locator is created. In the present embodiment for the event the locator 1 for the event the locator 11 etc. is created. If the event is a data element like or sentence the content words together with the current locators are used to build the structural information and the plain text is used to build the plain representation . In case the event is an end element the structural analyzer leaves the current locator and the procedure continues to examine the further events. If no further event exists the procedure ends.

An example embodiment of structural information output by the structural analyzer is shown in . The structural information contains the elements of the realization corresponding to the plain representation e.g. the words in the first column and the corresponding locators . . . in the second column.

In step of which may be carried out before after or at the same time as step the realization e.g. the audio stream is fed into the temporal analyzer . The temporal analyzer generates a time stamped or otherwise marked representation from the realization . It is advantageous to generate a time stamped representation of the complete realization . However some embodiments create marked or time stamped representations only of parts of the realization .

The time stamped representation includes the transcript and time stamps of all elementary representational units like e.g. word or word clusters. In the above example a speech recognition engine is used as temporal analyzer to generate a raw time tagged transcript of the audio file . Many commercially available speech recognition engines might be used for example IBM s ViaVoice. However in addition to the recognition of words the temporal marker analyzer should be able to allocate time stamps and or marks for each word. An example for a such a time stamped representation is the transcript shown in . The start times and the end times in milliseconds are assigned to each word of the resulting representation. The start and end times locators are time locators that specify an interval in the audio stream data using the coordinate system appropriate for the audio format e.g. milliseconds for WAVE files. The time stamped representation as shown in may include words which have not been recognized correctly e.g. Hohl instead of Kohl or booking instead of looking .

In step the plain representation derived from step and the time stamped representation derived from step are fed to the time aligner . The time aligner aligns the plain representation and the time stamped representation . Thereby for the aligned elements the time locator start time end time from the time stamped representation is attached to the content elements e.g. words from the plain representation leading to the time stamped aligned representation . The time aligner creates an optimal alignment of the words from the time stamped representation and the words contained in the plain representation . This can be done by a variety of dynamic programming techniques. Such an alignment automatically corrects isolated errors made by the temporal analyzer by aligning the misrecognized words with the correct counterparts e.g. Hohl with Kohl booking with looking . Missing parts of representation and or missing realization result in that segments of the plain representation and or the time stamped representation remain unaligned. An example of an aligned representation combining the correct words and the time locators is shown in .

In step of the structural information and the time stamped aligned representation e.g. in form of data streams are fed into a link generator . The link generator then combines the locators . . . of each element from the structural information with the respective time locator from the time stamped aligned representation thereby creating connections between equivalent elements of representation and realization so called time alignment hyper links . In an embodiment these hyper links are stored in a hyperlink document. In an alternative embodiment these hyperlinks are transferred to a data base.

It is advantageous that the hyper link document be a HyTime document conforming to the ISO IEC 10744 1992 standard or a type of document using another convention to express hyperlinks e.g. DAISY XLink SMIL etc.

Whereas in the above example the locators of each word are combined it is however possible to combine the locators of sentences or paragraphs or pages with the corresponding time locators. An example for a hyper link document in HyTime format is shown in . Therein for each sentence the locators . . . for the representation and the time locator . . . for the realization are combined in hyper links. An alternate embodiment creates hyper links wherein the locators for each word or for each other element paragraph page etc. are combined.

It will be understood and appreciated by those skilled in the art that the inventive concepts described by the present application may be embodied in a variety of system contexts. Some of the typical application domains are described in the following.

Sometimes either the representation or the realization or both is not available in a native or operating data format directly processable by the aligner . In this case the available data has to be converted from a native format into the data format which can be used by the aligner directly.

Thus in some cases the native alien format of the original representation is not the same format as the native alien format of the realization. The representation is given in a native data format A . The realization is given in a native data format B . These data formats are different. In an embodiment the representation A is converted into an operating data format A and the realization B is converted into an operating data format B .

This aligner includes aligner shown in . Additionally a first converter and or a second converter and a link transformer are elements of the aligner . These elements are connected to each other as shown in .

In an embodiment the following procedure is applied. First the native representation is converted by the first converter into a representation in an operating or standard format e.g. SGML. Additionally the first converter produces information necessary to re convert the resulting hyper links into the native format. Such information can be e.g. a representation mapping table a markup mapping table .

The native realization is converted by a second converter into a realization in the operating or standard format e.g. WAVE. In addition a realization mapping table a time mapping table is created by the second converter .

In the described example it is assumed that both the representation and the realization have to be converted before being processed by the aligner . A situation is however possible in which only the representation or only or the realization has to be converted. Accordingly the procedure has to be adapted to the particular situation.

Both converters are programmed according to the source and destination formats. The detailed implementation of the converters and the way of creating the mapping tables are accomplished in ways known to those skilled in the art. Next both the representation and the realization each in operating standard format are fed into the aligner . Aligner creates the hyper links as described above. Next the hyper links or the corresponding hyper link document and the mapping tables are used by the link transformer to create native hyper links in the format of the original representation . For this purpose the link transformer uses the mapping tables and or to replace the locators in the hyper links with locators using the appropriate coordinate systems for the native representation and or native realization as specified by the mapping tables . For example if the native representation was written in HTML format it would than be converted into SGML format by the first converter . The hyper links created by the aligner would than be retransformed into HTML by the link transformer using the mapping table .

Sometimes either the representation and or the realization is enhanced by using information from the other. Examples include automatic subtitling time stamping the dialogues in a script etc.

Telecast applications TV digital audio broadcasting etc. use an interleaved system stream that carries the representation the realization and a synchronization information. The synchronized information is created in the form of a system stream by an aligner with a multiplexer in accordance with the present invention. Again may be used to illustrate the system. This aligner with multiplexer may be implemented to use the aligner as described above. A multiplexer corresponding to the enhancer in is employed to generates an interleaved system stream corresponding to the enhanced representation in . In this way the multiplexer combines the original representation the original realization and the hyper links into one combined system stream. It is noted that the concept of the aligner with multiplexer can be combined with the principles of using other file formats and with the principles of creating an enhanced representation and or realization as described above.

An example embodiment applying the present invention to an audio database system is now described. Realization representation and hyper links according to the present invention can be used to create an audio database that allows a user to access only the relevant segments of recorded speech data. For this purpose the representation the realization and hyper links are transferred into a database to use typical database access methods to search and navigate through the information. Any database may be used e.g. relational databases etc. The import module of such a database reads the hyper links which are for example included in a hyper link document the representation and the realization . The module generally stores these information in an internal table representation.

It is advantageous to use such a database to implement applications which enable an user to exploit the hyper links . Accordingly an example embodiment employs the concept of a structured audio database using a query by audio content engine. From the viewpoint of the user the database is an audio database. The user queries the database in order to get audio data according to his query. For example the user may query such a database by entering keywords or phrases into a graphical user interface GUI query mask. If a voice type interface is used the user queries the database using audio queries. These audio queries are then converted into text queries e.g. by means of voice recognition.

In cases wherein the user would ordinarily get a complete document in which the requested audio data is enclosed as the result of his query using the data base concept of the present invention the user indicates the structural unit of the results expected e.g. word sentence paragraph any etc. before the query is sent to the database. This is done for example by selecting a corresponding button or an item from a drop down list in a GUI. In an alternate embodiment using a speech user interface SUI the user speaks his query to the computer using either a controlled or a free vocabulary. An example would be Find me all paragraphs where Italian and inflation occur in the same sentence. 

In the following example embodiment the requested structural unit is sentence . After the text query is directed to the audio database the internal table representation is used to search for certain words and phrases and locate the respective piece of audio.

If the requested piece was not a sentence but for example the paragraph containing this sentence then additional information from the internal table representation e.g. from a table representing the structure of the corresponding document tree is used to determine the locator of the first and the last sentence of the requested paragraph. The above steps are performed for each locator and the resulting audio locators are combined into a new one.

Depending on the type of structural unit selected in a GUI the search results are presented to the user as a resulting document comprising a list or a tree of hits. For example the tree starts with a list of all the documents in the database that contain at least one hit. At each structural level this list can be navigated by expanding the nodes until the smallest structural unit that contains a hit is reached. At each stage the segment of the audio data containing the hit can be played by clicking on the corresponding node of the result tree.

In the case of a SUI the search results are summarized and read to the user by a speech synthesizer. As for example 

As in querying the database the user can respond with speech input and ask the system to either expand a node for further details or to play a node.

Since not only the content but also the structural information of the input data are used in the present invention it is possible to search not only though the content but through the structure of the input data. This means that it is possible to search for a question and a corresponding answer in an interview or vice versa.

Because of the presence of hyper links and or hyper link documents in the audio data base as described above it is advantageous that the database be implemented as a web enabled database. Accordingly in an embodiment the user interface is a web browser e.g. an HTML interface for search panels and displaying matching item lists. The presentation of the text and all search results is done as HTML or XML documents. The complex hyper link structure created is transferred to the simple hyperlink structure e.g. HTML of common web browser. Any sentence in the resulting document is hyper linked with the related audio section. The parts that match the search criteria are highlighted. Navigation through the text next sentence previous paragraph etc. is done by clicking small icons attached to the document structure. Starting playback of the related audio section is done by clicking an icon or the text itself.

Potential applications for this technology include hybrid electronic text audio books e.g. on CD ROM etc. where the production process can be enhanced at the same time by providing more functions for the end user. In Internet and Intranet magazines original interviews and speeches can be added to the text. In broadcast archives specific passages from a set of longer speeches can be extracted more effectively. The search and access of specific words or phrases in all kind of audio archives is supported. This simplifies access for the public and or scientists. In court recording easy access to any statement is possible. This is not only in writing but also in direct access to the spoken words. In general the present invention provides a platform for multimedia applications e.g. language learning applications. The invention makes it possible to combine the written text and spoken text audio in a way that allows to easily switch between them take the text to extract the information search through it and if there is an interesting part just click on it and listen to the related spoken words or even view the scene on video . Furthermore the present invention supports a variety of different languages e.g. English German Italian Spanish Japanese Chinese Arabic etc. .

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program means or computer program in the present context mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

It is noted that the foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent objects and embodiments of the present invention. The concepts of this invention may be used for many applications. Thus although the description is made for particular arrangements and methods the intent and concept of the invention is suitable and applicable to other arrangements and applications. It will be clear to those skilled in the art that other modifications to the disclosed embodiments can be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The described embodiments ought to be construed to be merely illustrative of some of the more prominent features and applications of the invention. Other beneficial results can be realized by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or modifying the invention in ways known to those familiar with the art. Thus it should be understood that the embodiments has been provided as an example and not as a limitation. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

