---

title: System and method for visualization of data
abstract: Embodiments of computer implemented methods and systems for visualization of data are described. One example embodiment includes receiving authentication data related to a user, establishing an identity of the user based on the user authentication data, and receiving profile data associated with the user in response to the establishing of the identity of the user. The example embodiment may further include receiving transaction data associated with the user, selectively aggregating the profile data with the transaction data as aggregated user data, visualizing the aggregated user data as a data visualization, the data visualization being a composition of visual media corresponding to the aggregated data, and providing an address to the data visualization such that the data visualization may be referred to in other applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477776&OS=09477776&RS=09477776
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09477776
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080402
---
This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to a system and method for visualization of data.

Visual presentation of data is more efficient than textual presentation of data. Systems and methods of visualization of data in some example embodiments may permit visual presentation of advertisements tailored to a specific user. In some other example embodiments systems and methods of visualization of data may be utilized to create visualizations of user personality.

It may be difficult to create targeted advertisements unless sufficient user data is available. However in order to access user data the user needs to be recognized. Systems and methods of visualization of data may require that the user be positively authenticated before visualization of data is performed.

In some example embodiments a user may be requested to agree to presentation of targeted advertisements while logged in on an electronic marketplace e.g. eBay . To target advertisements to a user systems and methods for visualization of data may need to obtain data. The user data may be obtained from various data sources. For example the user data may be obtained from an electronic marketplace profile associated with the user from historical transactions associated with the user or from third parties. Furthermore the user may be asked to provide additional data.

Based on the user data received systems and methods of visualization of data may create personalized advertisements that are displayed to the user dynamically. Data visualization created from the dynamically obtained data may include demographic data such as for example user age. The demographic data may dictate the type of advertisement being offered. This approach may succeed because younger users may be more likely to spend money on fashion clothing and CDs whereas older users may spend more on home improvement. Furthermore the transaction data may reveal recent purchases made by the user. Accordingly merchandise related to the recent purchases may be advertised to the user. Thus for example if it is determined that the user has recently purchased a Blu Ray Disc player Blu Ray disks may be advertised to the user.

In some example embodiments based on the data obtained data visualization may be created that is utilized as the user personality card. For example the weather conditions in the user s location may be obtained dynamically from a weather forecaster and visualized as an image depicting a sun or rain and inserted in an email along with other user related data.

The data visualization may be composed of multiple data elements visualized and joined together. For example user instant messenger e.g. Skype identification may be joined with the local weather and the user name and displayed as a personalized logo on the user social service website e.g. MySpace Facebook . The images correlating to textual data and representing components in data visualization may be obtained from an image database. Data visualization may be generated dynamically from the currently available data and recreated on each subsequent request.

In some example embodiments data visualization may be utilized as the user s personalized signature. In some other example embodiments a data visualized may be represented by an avatar created based on the user data. The avatar may be used for instant messengers as well as for social service websites. The data visualized may include the user s favorite football team or favorite colors email and telephone number. The data visualization may subsequently be stored as web resource.

In the context of an electronic marketplace data visualization may provide the information about user feedback positive and negative score or trade volume. The systems and methods for data visualization are not limited to static images and may include videos or animations e.g. Adobe Flash embedded in a web page . An example network environment in which the systems and methods for visualization of data may be implemented is illustrated in .

As shown in the network environment may include a network a social network service an electronic marketplace an instant messenger client systems a personal information manager a third party data provider and a data visualization engine . The electronic marketplace may further include a user profile data and a user transactional data . The third party data provider may further include a third party user data .

The network may be a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication e.g. the Internet . The social network service shown in the context of the network environment may be utilized to provide online social networks for communities of people who share interests and activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. The social network service e.g. Facebook may be primarily web based and provide a collection of various ways for users to interact such as chat messaging email video voice chat file sharing blogging and discussion groups.

The electronic marketplace is a community of buyers and sellers e.g. eBay buying and selling by bidding at electronic marketplace auctions or by paying fixed prices. The electronic marketplace may further include the user profile data and the user transaction data . The instant messenger may be configured to provide a form of real time communication between two or more people based on typed text. The text exchanged between instant messenger clients may be conveyed via computers connected over a network such as the network .

The client systems may include devices featuring a display that are configured to permit user interaction. The client systems may display graphical icons visual indicators special graphical elements called widgets and any other feature commonly used in graphical user interfaces. The graphical icons provided may be used in conjunction with text labels or text navigation to fully represent the information and actions available to a user. A user may perform actions through direct manipulation of the graphical elements.

The personal information manager in some example embodiments is a type of application software that may function as a personal organizer. The personal information manager may facilitate the recording tracking and management of certain types of personal information . The personal information manager may include personal notes journal address books task lists significant calendar dates birthdays anniversaries appointments and meeting reminders email instant message archives fax communications voicemail and or project management features. The personal information manager may be configured to acquire organize maintain retrieve and use information items such as documents paper based and digital web pages and email messages.

The third party data provider may be configured to obtain and provide personal records and business records. The third party data provider may comprise the third party user data . The third party user data may include names birthday and anniversary dates addresses telephone numbers Fax numbers and e mail addresses. The business records may include business transactions associated with or related to a person. The data visualization engine is described with reference to .

The communication module in some example embodiments may be configured to receive user authentication data. For example a user may be asked to provide user authentication such as two text strings including user identification ID and a password. Upon receiving the user authentication data the user authentication module may establish the identity of the user based on the user authentication data. Once the user is positively identified a user session may be created and the user may then navigate a website such as the electronic marketplace without re establishing the identity.

The receiving module may be configured to receive the user profile data based on the identity of the user established by the user authentication module . The receiving module may further be configured to receive the user transaction data . The user transaction data may include data related to the user actions with respect to the electronic marketplace and include a history of financial transactions and user community feedback.

In some example embodiments some of the user profile data and the user transaction data may be received from the third party data provider as a part of the third party user data . A user s permission may be requested before data from the third party data provider is received. The aggregating module may be configured to aggregate the data received by the receiving module from various above mentioned data sources. In some example embodiments the aggregating module may aggregate the data selected as pertinent to the objectives of subsequent data visualization.

Thus if the data visualization is intended to be utilized as a targeted advertisement a user address included in the user profile data may not be relevant. Accordingly the user address may not be selected to be aggregated by the data aggregating module . The aggregation of data by the aggregating module may produce aggregated user data to be utilized by the data visualization module . The data visualization module may be configured to visualize the aggregated user data as a data visualization. The data visualization in some example embodiments is a composition of visual data corresponding to the respective aggregated data. The data visualization may be represented by an image or a video.

The resource storing module may be configured to store the data visualization produced by the data visualization module . In some example embodiments the data visualization may be stored as a web resource. The data visualization stored as a web resource may in some example embodiments be static displaying the same visual data upon each access. The data visualization may in some other embodiments be dynamic recreated on each access based on the updated aggregated data.

In some example embodiments the additional data requesting module may request the user to provide additional data. For example it may be determined that the profile data is insufficient to create a data visualization representing user personality. Accordingly the user may be requested to provide additional data. The additional data may be combined with the data available from the above mentioned data sources and aggregated by the data aggregating module to produce enhanced aggregated data.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with the communication module receiving user authentication data. For example upon clicking on a hyperlink that reads sign in a user may be taken to a sign in webpage of the electronic marketplace where the user may provide his authentication data such a user ID and a password. At operation the user authentication module may establish the identity of the user based on the user authentication data received at operation .

At operation the receiving module may receive user profile data associated with the user based on the identity of the user established at operation . At operation the receiving module may receive the user transaction data and at operation the data aggregating module may selectively aggregate the profile data received at operation with the transaction data received at operation . At operation the data visualization module may visualize the aggregated user data. The data visualization may be a composition of visual media corresponding to the aggregated data.

Upon successful authentication of user credentials the user may be signed in on the electronic marketplace . Once the user is signed in on a website various databases may be accessed and user data received. The data received may then be analyzed to determine for example the user s spending patterns. Thus it may be determined from the data received by the receiving module that the user is a buyer and has recently purchased a new TV or that that the user has spent large amounts of money lately buying other merchandise. Accordingly expensive TV related equipment may be advertised to the user. Additionally the user profile and the user related third party data may be utilized to dynamically create a data visualization.

Thus at operation the user authentication module may establish the identity of the user based on the user authentication data received at operation and at decision block the user authentication module may determine whether there was a successful identification of the user. If there was no successful user authentication method may proceed to operation where a request to re attempt the log in may be displayed to the user.

If on the other hand the user is successfully authenticated by the user authentication module user data may be obtained. As already mentioned above in some example embodiments it may be decided that the data available is not sufficient to create desired data visualization. In such case the additional data requesting module may request user permission to create personalized advertisements at operation .

In some example embodiments the additional data module may be utilized to request user permission to access user data in order to create data visualization. Furthermore a user may be separately requested to permit third parties to provide user data. Upon successful login the user may be requested to allow access for a certain period of time e.g. 18 months .

One of the utilities of data visualization is targeted advertisement. Targeted advertisements may be a more efficient use of resources because advertisements are not sent to people that are not interested in the product. In some example embodiments the additional data requesting module may ask users to provide permissions via an opt in for targeted advertisement.

Once permission is granted the receiving module may receive user profile data including user personal information at operation and at operation receive transactional data associated with user. The data received may include user feedback score the percentage of the feedback that is positive user s Skype ID current date and the user zip code. Based on the user zip code the weather at the user location may be determined. The transaction data received by the receiving module may include user related orders invoices payments and activity records.

At operation the receiving module may receive third party data related to the user. The third party data provider may be an organization specializing in public records information and offering service to consumers and businesses. Thus data may be received from a range of resources including the electronic marketplace and the third party data provider .

In some example embodiments user accounts may be linked with a third party account and subsequent log ins onto the electronic marketplace may result in automatic log ins onto the third party data provider . In some example embodiments when the user refuses to give the permission for personalized advertisement or the user cannot be identified it may still be possible to create a data visualization that does not hold or is not based on a user s personal data.

At operation the receiving module may receive additional data requested by the additional data requesting module when it is determined that such information would be helpful.

At operation the data aggregating module may aggregate the data received at operations and . Thus freely available information user data and the data that the user is subscribed to may be aggregated in order to create data visualization. There may be different versions of the data visualization such as a private version a public version and or a version for friends and family. The visualization is not limited to still images and may be animated.

For example based on the zip code the current cable TV provider of the area can be determined. Furthermore it may be determined from the user transaction history that the user has recently acquired a new TV capable of receiving a high definition TV signal. Based on this data a customized advertisement of high definition TV channels offered by the cable TV provider may be presented to the user. In another example it may be determined that the user has recently acquired a new Blu Ray Disk player. Based on this data a visualization depicting a customized advertisement of Blu Ray Discs may be created.

Data visualization within the context of this disclosure may refer to any technique for creating images diagrams or animations to communicate a message. Data visualization through visual imagery may be an effective way to communicate data. At operation the data visualization module may select a visualization type such as image or video.

If image is selected as an option at operation then a data visualization depicting an image is created at operation . The image may feature a specialized advertisement. If on the other hand a video is selected than an advertisement video is created based on selected visualization components at operation . The data visualization may be created by merging visual components corresponding to the data components selected from various databases. The visual components may be assembled on a visual template provided by the Application Programming Interface API of a computer language utilized to create the data visualization.

Thus textual data obtained from various databases may be merged with a graphical database to generate an image or a video that may be dynamically updated on demand and displayed to the user. For example the Hypertext Preprocessor PHP computer language may be utilized for real time generation of the data visualization. PHP may be utilized to dynamically generate images as well as Adobe Flash content.

At operation the data visualization module may create an image map of advertisement hyperlinks to related sites. The map fosters an association of the data visualization with an image map which includes a list of coordinates on the data visualization so that the areas of the data visualization are hyperlinked to the related locations. If for example the data visualization is a map of the world each country may be hyperlinked to further information about that country. At operation the data visualization module may present advertisements to the user.

At operation the authentication module authenticates a user by comparing provided credentials against a user database and at operation the receiving module may receive user profile data e.g. photograph name phone number . At operation the receiving module may receive user profile data or data related to user profile e.g. weather . The electronic marketplace may subscribe to such related data as weather. Because the user zip code is known the zip code may be correlated with a continuously updated data feed concerning the weather. Subsequently the weather visual component may be added to the data visualization.

At operation the data visualizing module may select a type of visualization such as business or personal. Depending on the type selected different data visualizations representing personality of the user may be created. The data visualization may also be presented as an avatar that may be utilized to represent a user on a social network website. Thus if business is selected then at operation the data visualization module may select data suitable for a business related virtual card. If on the other hand personal is selected than at operation the data visualization module may select data suitable for a personal virtual card.

At operation the data visualization module may select data for a personalized virtual card and at operation the data visualization module may select images from an image data base to represent the selected data in the data visualization.

The data visualization module may generate the data visualization by inserting the selected visual data from an image template. The resource storing module may be utilized to store the data visualization as a web resource and to provide the URL of the web resource with a communication.

At operation the data visualization module depending on the intended use of the visualization may insert visualization in electronic communication at operation . The data visualization stored as a web resource may be recreated upon access if its data components have changed. For example if the data visualization may include current weather. When the weather changes from sunny to rainy the data visualization may be recreated on access. In some example embodiments the data visualization provided in a communication may be dynamically updated upon receipt of the communication by the recipient. At operation the data visualization for social networking websites e.g. MySpace Facebook instant messengers e.g. Skype or a customizable internet portal e.g. iGoogle may be created.

In some example embodiments the data visualization may include a user s email address a photograph of the user and or a graphical representation of the user personality such as an avatar. The term avatar as used within the context of the instant disclosure may refer to the personality connected with an Internet user. At operation the resource storing module may store the data visualization on the web as a web resource and provide a hyperlink to the intended recipient. At operation the data visualization module may generate an image dynamically with each access.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both and a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during the execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus a system and method for visualization of data have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

