---

title: Remote control server protocol system
abstract: A remote control server protocol system transports data to a client system. The client system communicates with the server application using a platform-independent communications protocol. The client system sends commands and audio data to the server application. The server application may respond by transmitting audio and other messages to the client system. The messages may be transmitted over a single communications channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694310&OS=08694310&RS=08694310
owner: QNX Software Systems Limited
number: 08694310
owner_city: Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20080327
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 973 131 filed Sep. 17 2007 which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to a communications protocol and more particularly to a protocol that transports control configuration and or monitoring data used in a speech enhancement system in a vehicle.

Vehicles may include wireless communication systems. A user may communicate with the wireless communication system through a hard wired interface or through a wireless interface which may include a hands free headset. Such wireless communication systems may include or may be coupled to a noise reduction system. The noise reduction system may include a plurality of noise reduction modules to handle the various acoustic artifacts.

To optimize the noise reduction system a technician may manually adjust the noise reduction system based on the specific acoustic chamber corresponding to the vehicle or vehicle model. Adjusting the noise reduction system by depressing buttons and indicators on the head end or noise reduction system may be time consuming and expensive. Once the noise reduction system has been initialized activating and or deactivating individual modules may require rebooting of the system which may be time consuming.

A remote control server protocol system transports data to a client system. The client system communicates with the server application using a platform independent communications protocol. The client system sends commands and audio data to the server application. The server application may respond by transmitting audio and other messages to the client system. The messages may be transmitted over a single communications channel.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The system provides platform and transport independent methods for transferring character and embedded data e.g. binary data . It allows for the same interface to be used for monitoring multiple channels of audio data and sending and receiving configuration and control parameters. The protocol may handle sending signals to trigger application events in speech signal enhancement systems. is a vehicle environment which may include an application to client environment . The application to client environment may include a client system and an application or speech enhancement system . The speech enhancement system may be coupled to or communicate with a wireless communication device such as a wireless telephone system or cellular telephone.

The client system may be a portable computer such as laptop computer terminal wireless interface or other device used by a technician or user to adjust tune or modify the speech enhancement system . The client system may be separate and independent from the speech enhancement system and may run under a Windows operating system. Other operating systems and or computing platforms may also be used.

The application to client environment may provide a platform and transport independent system for transferring commands messages and data such as character data embedded data binary data audio streams and other data between the client system and the speech enhancement system by using a remote control server RCS protocol . The RCS protocol may be a communications protocol that may transport control data configuration data and or for monitoring data between the speech enhancement system and the client system . Data may be sent over a single or common interface or channel. The RCS protocol may permit a user to efficiently tune and adjust the speech enhancement system in the vehicle for optimum performance through the client system . Because the acoustic chamber may differ from vehicle to vehicle and from vehicle model to vehicle model a user may tune and adjust the parameters of the speech enhancement system for each specific acoustic environment loudly or remotely.

The client system may include an RCS protocol client application which may comprise a software plug in. The RCS protocol client application may translate commands issued by the client system under user control into an RCS protocol format . The speech enhancement system may include a corresponding RCS protocol server application which may comprise a software plug in. The RCS protocol server application may translate data and commands received from the client system in an RCS protocol format into control commands and data which may be processed by the speech enhancement system . By using the software and communication may occur independent of the platform.

In some systems the processing modules may comprise a collection of routines and data structures that perform tasks and may be stored in a library of software programs. The processing module may include an interface that recognizes data types variables and routines in an implementation accessible only to the module. The processing modules may be accessed to process a stream of audio data received from or sent to the wireless communication device . Any of the processing modules may process the audio data during operation of the speech enhancement system . The speech enhancement system may process a stream of audio data on a frame by frame basis. A frame of audio data may include for example 128 samples of audio data. Other frame lengths may be used. Each sample in a frame may represent audio data digitized at a basic sample rate of about 8 KHz or about 16 KHz for example.

The processing modules may be created or generated during initialization of the speech enhancement system or during normal operation of the speech enhancement system that may be under control of the client system . During the generation process memory may be mapped allocated and configured for some or all of the modules and various parameters may be set. The processing modules may be uninstalled during initialization or during normal operation of the speech enhancement system under the control of the client system .

Each processing module or software process or hardware that performs the speech enhancement processing may be accessed and copied from a library of speech enhancement processes into memory. The speech enhancement system may include processing modules such as an echo cancellation module a noise reduction module an automatic gain control module a parametric equalization module a high frequency encoding module a wind buffet removal module a dynamic limiter module a complex mixer module a noise compensation module and a bandwidth extension module . For example a signal enhancement module may be included which may be described in application Ser. Nos. 10 973 575 11 757 768 and 11 849 009 which are incorporated by reference. Such processing modules may process data on the receive side or the transmit side. A diagnostic support module may be included to facilitate debugging of the speech enhancement system . Other noise reduction or speech enhancement modules may be included. The speech enhancement system may be a compiled and linked library of processing modules available from Harman International of California under the name of Aviage Acoustic Processing System.

The speech enhancement system may include a processor or other computing device memory disk storage a communication interface and other hardware and software components. The processor may communicate with various signal processing components such as filters mixers limiters attenuators and tuners which may be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of hardware and software. Such signal processing components may be part of the speech enhancement system or may be separate from the speech enhancement system. The client system or portable computer may also include a processor or other computing device memory disk storage a communication interface and other hardware and software components.

The processing modules may process the audio data from the wireless communication device serially or in a parallel manner Act . The processor may periodically determine if a request message and or command has been received from the client system Act . In some systems the client request may request service from the processor .

When a request is received from the client system the processor may call the RCS protocol server application to translate an RCS protocol message received from the client system Act . The RCS protocol server application may be an API application programming interface program. The API may recognize the commands instructions and data provided in RCS protocol format and may translate such information into signals recognized by the speech enhancement system . The processor may execute a process Act specified by the client system . If a terminate signal is detected Act the link between the client system and the application may be terminated. If no terminate signal is received processing by the processing modules may continue Act .

A response rset sent by the application in response to the message sent by the client system may include attributes returned by the message call. An error parameter may contain a code indicating that an error has occurred or that no error has occurred. A no error indication means that the set message was received correctly. The types of information described above may apply to each of the messages described in . The format of the values associated with each attribute may be defined as follows 

The SET message may be used to set or define parameters or variables in the processing modules . For example a noise reduction floor which may be a parameter in the noise reduction module may be set to 10 dB using this message. A character string noise reduction floor may be entered into a param field to identify the parameter to be set and the value of 10 may be entered into a data field .

In some systems the processing modules may be created and or destroyed individually by the appropriate commands sent by the client system . It is not necessary that memory for all of the processes be created or destroyed at one time.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits including amplifiers adders delays and filters or one or more processors executing amplification adding delaying and filtering instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. The systems may be included in a wide variety of electronic devices including a cellular phone a headset a hands free set a speakerphone communication interface or an infotainment system.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

