---

title: Delegation of data entry tasks
abstract: To avoid the need for off-line collaboration, a primary user who is attempting to enter data required for computer-based process may, as part of the data entry process, delegate data entry tasks for specific input fields to designated delegate users who are more likely to be knowledgeable about the data to be entered. Data entry operations performed by the primary user are recorded and used to build a transaction model which will enable a server to provide required data input screens to delegate users. Data entered by the delegate users is merged with data entered by the primary user to meet the requirements of the computer-based process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984418&OS=08984418&RS=08984418
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08984418
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 953 407 entitled DELEGATION OF DATA ENTRY TASKS field Dec. 10 2007 the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to information processing and more particularly to delegation of data entry tasks by a primary user to one or more delegate users.

It is not uncommon for enterprise data processing systems to make use of web based applications as user interfaces to the systems. As one example an enterprise expense reimbursement system may support the use of a web based user data entry application that runs on a networked personal computer and allows an employee to enter an itinerary travel expenses lodging expenses accounting codes and other information into input fields in a data entry screen called up through a web browser. The entered data is transmitted to an application server for processing of the entered data.

One advantage of web based data entry applications is that they are available to any employee with web access whether the employee is working side by side with other employees or remotely. If an employee using a web based data entry application cannot provide all of the information required by the application for example required accounting codes and has no one nearby to ask the employee must at least temporarily leave the data entry application and try to acquire the necessary information from another employee before returning to the data entry application to complete the data entry process. The steps described above are time consuming and distracting both for the employee who must interrupt the data entry task to ask for help and for any employee who is asked to provide such help.

There is a need for an information data entry system that does not require the use of off line data acquisition of the type described above.

The invention may be implemented as a method for acquiring data required for performance of a computer based process. A primary user provides one or more data inputs each of the inputs taking the form of data entered into an input field on a data input display screen. The primary user may also designate at least one delegate user to whom the primary user is delegating a responsibility to provide a data input for a particular input field. Each designated delegate user is requested to provide the data input. Inputs provided by delegate users are received.

The invention may also be implemented as a computer program product for acquiring data required for performance of a computer based process. The computer program product includes a computer usable medium embodying computer usable program code configured to receive data inputs from a primary user each data input taking the form of data entered into an input field on a data input display screen available to the primary user. The computer program product also includes program code configured to receive from the primary user designations of one or more delegate users to whom the primary user is delegating the responsibility of providing data for particular input fields. A computer program product further includes program code configured to request data from each designated delegate user and program code configured to receive data from a least one delegate user.

The invention may also be implemented as a system for acquiring data required for performance of a computer based process. The system includes logic for receiving from a primary user one or more data inputs provided as data entered into input fields in a data input display screen and at least one designation of a delegate user to whom the primary user is delegating the responsibility of providing data for a particular input field. The system further includes logic for requesting data input from each delegate user and logic for receiving data input provided by at least one delegate user

The invention may also be implemented as a method for performing a computer based process. One or more data inputs required by the computer based process is received from a primary user with each data input being provided as data entered into an input field on a data input display screen available to the primary user. Also received from the primary user are one or more designations of delegate users for whom the primary user is delegating the responsibility of providing data input for particular input fields. Each delegate user is requested to provide data input. Inputs from delegate users are received and used along with data provided by the primary user to perform the computer based process.

The invention may also be implemented as a computer program product for performing a computer based process. A computer program product includes a computer usable medium having computer usable program code configured to receive data input from a primary user with each data input taking the form of data entered into an input field on the data input display screen available to the primary user. The computer program product also includes program code for receiving from the primary user the designations of one or more delegate users to whom the primary user is delegating responsibility for providing data input for particular input fields. A computer program product further includes program code for requesting data input from each of the designated delegate users for receiving data input from the designated delegate users and for performing the computer based process using data inputs received from the primary user and one or more of the designated delegate users.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The agent server is used in designating delegate users users to whom a primary user has delegated the task of providing data for one or more input fields on data entry screens associated with a particular application creating a workflow process control the entry of data by delegate users creating the user interfaces required by the delegate users to complete the data entry tasks that have been delegated to them and processing the data entered by the delegate users. The functions and operations of the agent server are described later in more detail.

Each of the clients may be implemented on a personal computer or comparable device used primarily by a single user. At least some of the clients may include a web browser that allows the client specifically the user of the client to interact via the web browser with another computer connected to the network . In one embodiment of the present invention a browser plug in is downloaded from the agent server and installed in any such client to add advanced function required in implementing the present invention. The advanced function will be described later in more detail.

For purposes of the present invention client users can be categorized as belonging to one of two groups. A primary user is a user who enters data either on his own behalf or on behalf of a supported principal. An example of the latter type of primary user is an administrative assistant that enters data on behalf of a boss. A delegate user is a user to whom the task of entering data has been delegated by a primary user in accordance with the present invention. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that client terminal is used by a primary user while client terminal is used by a delegate user.

In the course of a data entry operation initiated by the primary user the primary user may delegate the task of providing data for an input field to a delegate user. The agent server receives a designation of the delegate user and the input field generates an instruction defining the task to be performed by the delegate user and transmits the instruction to the workflow server . Further the agent server provides the delegate user with an interface for performing the delegated input task and uses the data inputted by the delegate user to carry out processing on behalf of the application server. The functions and operations of the agent server will be described later in detail.

The collaboration server provides a service that enables the employees of the enterprise owning the network system to collaborate by exchanging information with each other. More specifically the collaboration server provides an instant messaging service an electronic mail service and perhaps other services. In the embodiment of the present invention the agent server can exchange information with the clients using the services provided by the collaboration server .

The user management server is responsible for managing information regarding the users of the network system including e.g. mail addresses and other user IDs and passwords. The user management server provides the managed information over the network to applications as appropriate through an application programming interface API in an appropriate format. Applications that may need such managed information include instant messaging and or e mail client software.

As will be explained in more detail later the workflow server generates a workflow process for completing a data entry operation involving a primary user and one or more delegate users. The generated workflow process is based on a segmented task structure created from a model structure by the agent server . More detailed information about the model structure the segmented task structure and the workflow process created by the workflow server is provided later.

The application server interacts with other computer devices of the system to provide data processing applications that provide business services to application users. For purposes of this description it is assumed the application server provides an expense reimbursement service to reimburse employees for travel and related expenses incurred when conducting business on behalf of the enterprise.

The representation of network is a generic representation of communication paths for connecting the clients and various server devices including the agent server and the application server . As noted earlier what is shown as a single network may actually be multiple networks that are interconnected but that have different properties e.g. proprietary local area networks and public wide area networks.

The client communication unit enables the agent server to communicate with the clients including the primary user terminal and the delegate user terminal . The server communication unit enables the agent server to communicate with the other servers connected to the network including the collaboration server the user management server the workflow server and the application server .

The plug in management unit stores a plug in program that can be added to the web browser by clients in accordance with the present invention. In response to a request from a client the plug in management unit provides the plug in program to a client through the client communication unit .

As will be explained in more detail below a data entry operation performed in accordance with the present invention requires that a primary user assumed to be using the primary user terminal enter certain data that is used to create a data entry transaction model. The model structure storage unit stores a model structure based on data received from the primary user through the client communication unit . The segmented task structure generation unit generates a segmented task structure based on the stored model structure. The generated segmented task structure is stored in the segmented task structure storage unit . Further details of the model structure and the segmented task structure are provided later.

The workflow control unit can generate an instruction to dynamically generate a workflow process including at least one delegate input task corresponding to a delegate input user assigned the input task based on the segmented task structure stored in the segmented task structure storage unit and to transmit the generated instruction to the workflow server through the server communication unit . The workflow server upon receiving the instruction generates the workflow process and subsequently performs activation of the workflow process and management of the progress of the task s . The contents and details in generation of the workflow process generated by the workflow server will be described later.

The input operation storage unit stores a record of data entry operations performed at primary user terminal and received via the client communication unit . The record stored in input operation storage unit is used when data is being entered by a delegate user at delegate user terminal and when such data is processed by the delegate processing control unit .

When the task of providing data for a particular input field has been delegated to a delegate user and the delegate user is ready to begin that task the processing unit generates and transmits to the delegate user terminal the file required to create a data input interface for the particular input field to be completed by the delegate user.

The delegated input value storage unit stores a value received from the delegate user terminal through the client communication unit .

The delegate processing control unit automatically initiates the processing of data provided by delegate users on the condition that all the delegated data entry tasks have been completed. More specifically the delegate processing control unit generates a delegate processing file based on the data entry operation record stored in the input operation storage unit and the data stored in the delegate input value storage unit as a result of data entry operations performed by delegate users. The delegate processing control unit is also capable of activating browser of the agent server . The browser includes a plug in similar to the plug ins installed in the clients . The delegate processing control unit of the agent server carries out reimbursement processing by interacting with the application server according to the delegate processing file in the browser environment that includes the installed plug in.

The input unit receives input data provided by a user of the client through use of a keyboard and or a mouse . The display unit displays information on a display device . The server communication unit enables the client to communicate with the agent server and with the other server computers connected to the network .

The browser is application software for retrieving and rendering electronic documents such as web pages. In one embodiment of the present invention the browser can download and display files in various formats including but not limited to HTML or XML from a server on the network. As already noted the normal functionality of the browser is enhanced by installing a plug in that provides functionality specific to the present invention. In one embodiment of the present invention the user of the client downloads the plug in from the agent server and installs it at the client.

The plug in in one embodiment of the present invention includes a model structure generation unit a model structure storage unit an input operation acquisition unit an input operation storage unit a reproduction processing unit an input reproduction file storage unit a delegate input value acquisition unit a delegate input value storage unit and a browser interface control unit .

When a delegate user has been designated to provide data for input field included in the input screen the model structure generation unit generates a model structure including an input screen ID an input field ID and a delegate user ID. The model structure storage unit stores the model structure generated by the model structure generation unit . The model structure recorded in the model structure storage unit is transmitted through the server communication unit to the agent server to be used for generating a segmented task structure.

The input operation acquisition unit acquires all terminal operations performed by the user of the client when recording is initiated in the client . The input operation storage unit records the user terminal operations acquired by the input operation acquisition unit . In one embodiment of the present invention the record of a terminal operations stored in the input operation storage unit is transmitted to the agent server where the record is subsequently used by the agent server to reproduce operations performed in the client .

If a designated user accepts a request from the agent server to perform a delegate user data entry task the reproduction processing unit transmits a request for an input reproduction file to the agent server via the server communication unit . The input file received from the agent server in reply to the request is stored in reproduction file storage unit . The reproduction processing unit executes the input reproduction file stored in the input reproduction file storage unit to create a data input interface for the delegate user in the browser .

The delegate input value acquisition unit acquires data entered by a delegate user. The storage unit temporarily stores data acquired by the delegate input value acquisition unit . Data stored in the delegate input value storage unit is transmitted to the agent server via the server communication unit .

The browser interface control unit controls the graphical user interface in the browser . Specifically for example when a delegate user input mode is selected in the client the browser interface control unit generates an input screen including the interface for designating a delegate user from the input screen received from the application server and displays the generated screen on the display unit .

The process proceeds to step in which the web browser application in primary user terminal is activated typically when the input user double clicks on a display screen icon representing the web browser.

Next in step in response to a prescribed operation performed by the primary user e.g. selection of an operation recording start button in the browser interface recording is begun of any subsequent date entry operations performed by the primary user.

Next in step the input user requests access to applications supported by the application server for example the reimbursement processing application discussed earlier. Application specific screens are provided to the primary user at client terminals with at least some of those screens including one or more input fields for entering necessary data.

At step the input user uses the primary user terminal to select either a normal data entry mode or a delegated data entry mode. When operating in a normal data entry mode the primary user is responsible for data input required by the application being executed in the application server . The delegated data entry mode is a mode in which the responsibility for providing at least some of the data required by the application being executed is delegated to another user the delegate user .

In step if it is determined that the normal data entry mode has been selected the process proceeds to step in which conventional processing is carried out based on the interaction between the application server and the primary user operating terminal . Data entry operations performed in the normal mode are well known and will not be described in detail.

If it is determined in step that the delegated data entry mode has been selected the process proceeds to the symbol A corresponding to step and further to step in a flowchart illustrated in .

Next in step the primary user enters either an actual value one that is believed to be accurate by the primary user for one of the input fields in the displayed input screen or alternatively enters a designation of delegate input user . Where the primary user enters a designation of delegate input user the primary user may also enter a tentative value for the data called for in the input field.

More specifically in step when a delegate user is to be designated the primary user may use the browser interface control unit in the primary user terminal to communicate with the user management server to request a list of possible delegate users. The primary user can select a delegate user from the list typically presented as a drop down list in the graphical user interface provided by the web browser at primary user terminal . is an example of a window interface including a selection list for designating a delegate user. In the window in a list of possible delegate users is displayed for a particular input field such as the field in which a required department code may be entered.

The process proceeds to step in which it is determined whether a delegate user has been designated for the input field. If it is determined that a delegate user has been designated the process proceeds to step in which the input screen is annotated to identify the delegate user for the particular input field. shows an example of an input screen where the screen annotation has been carried out according to an embodiment of the present invention. In the annotation is added for the designated input field by the browser interface control unit of the primary user terminal

The process proceeds to step in which inputs provided at the primary user terminal are used to create a model structure for later use in delegated data entry operations. The model structure which will be described below in detail identifies the input field for which the delegate user data entry is required and the input screen that includes the identified input field.

After the model structure is recorded in step the process proceeds to step . Also where it was determined in step that normal data entry operations were to be performed by the primary user the process proceeds to step .

In step it is determined whether there are any remaining unfilled input fields in the currently displayed input screen. If there are the process returns to step and the steps through are repeated for each unfilled input field until all of the input fields have been considered 

If it is determined in step that all of the input fields on the currently displayed input screen have been considered the process proceeds to step where it is determined whether there still other input screens that need to be completed to provide data required by the application being treated by application server .

When it is determined that all of the input fields in the currently displayed input screen have been considered the primary user uses the primary user terminal to select either GO TO NEXT SCREEN or EXECUTION RESERVATION . shows an example of the interface for inputting the selection of either GO TO NEXT SCREEN or EXECUTION RESERVATION . In the interface shown in the input user selects GO TO NEXT SCREEN or EXECUTION RESERVATION from the selection list displayed by the browser interface control unit at the primary user terminal

If it is determined in step that one or more additional input screens need to be completed before data entry is complete the process proceeds to step where GO TO NEXT SCREEN is selected. Next in step in response to selection of GO TO NEXT SCREEN data previously entered for the currently displayed input screen including any tentative values entered in an iteration of step is transmitted to the application server and data for next input screen is requested.

The process then proceeds to step where the primary user terminal receives from the application server the data for the next input screen requested in step . Thereafter the process returns to step and the steps through are repeated for the new input screen. The process described above is repeated until all of the input fields on all of the input screens have been considered.

If it is determined in step that all application related input screens have been considered the process proceeds to step where EXECUTION RESERVATION is selected by the primary user. Next the process proceeds to step where the primary user causes the model structure to be transmitted to the agent server . In step the record of operations at the primary user terminal related to the application currently being executed by application server are transmitted to the agent server . Thereafter the process proceeds to step where the process is terminated.

In step the agent server generates an instruction to dynamically generate a workflow process that includes at least one delegated data entry task that identifies a particular delegate user is having a responsibility to provide data for a particular input field.

At step the agent server transmits the instruction to generate the workflow process and the segmented task structure to the workflow server . In step the workflow server responds to the received instruction and the received segmented task structure by generating the workflow process in step . In one embodiment of the present invention the generated workflow process is also activated in step .

In step the agent server uses the collaboration server to transmit a request for a delegate user data entry task to the delegate user client terminal associated with the designated delegate user.

The process proceeds to step where the agent server transmits notification of completion of execution reservation to the primary user terminal to notify the primary user of the completion of the execution reservation. Thereafter the process proceeds to step where the process is terminated.

In step an input file for replicating an operation originally performed by the primary user at the primary user terminal at the delegate user terminal is requested from the agent server .

In step the delegate user reproduction processing unit in the agent server generates the input reproduction file requested by the delegate user terminal in step based on the segmented task structure stored in storage unit and the record of the data entry operations stored in the storage unit . The generated input reproduction file includes the operation s performed by the primary user at the primary user terminal the input field s assigned to the delegate user and pause codes that will permit a delegate user to enter requested data into the identified input fields.

In step the delegate user terminal uses the above described input reproduction file to replicate the operation s originally performed by the primary user at the primary user terminal . It is assumed in an embodiment of the present invention that the reproduction processing requires interaction with the application server via the agent server .

At step an input screen at delegate user terminal displays the input field s for which delegated data entry has been requested. shows an example of the input screen showing an input field for which delegated data entry was requested by the primary user. It is noted that the entire screen with the exception of the input field is darkened grayed out or otherwise altered to make it clear that data entry is to be confined to the input field

In step a determination is made whether the delegate user has been designated to provide data for another input field. If the delegate user has been designated provide data for another input field the process returns to step . Steps through are repeated for each remaining input field. Once all of the input fields assigned to the designated delegate user have been completed the process proceeds to step . In step the delegate user terminal transmits the input data entered by the delegate user to the agent server .

In step in response to receipt of data entered by a delegate user and transmitted in step the agent server transmits notification of completion of the corresponding delegate input task to the workflow server . In step the agent server generates a delegate input task completion screen and transmits the same to the delegate input user terminal . Thereafter the process proceeds to step where the process is terminated.

At step the workflow server determines whether all delegate user data entry tasks have been completed. If any delegate user data entry task remains uncompleted the process returns to step . Otherwise the process proceeds to step where the workflow server generates an instruction to start the delegate processing and transmits that instruction to the agent server .

Upon receiving the instruction from the workflow server the agent server uses the data entered by delegate users to perform the delegate processing through the following steps.

The delegate processing process starts at step . Subsequently in step the agent server replaces any tentative value s originally entered by the primary user with the actual value s entered by the delegate user to create a delegate processing file that records the procedure for conducting the delegate processing in the browser environment. Thereafter in step the agent server activates the browser for executing the delegate processing file.

In step the agent server executes the delegate processing file in the browser to carry out the delegate processing through the interaction with the application server . Subsequently in step the agent server saves the last screen received from the application server in the delegate processing.

The process then proceeds to step where the agent server transmits notification of completion of the delegated data entry processing to the primary user at terminal . The notification transmitted in step includes a link to the last screen of the delegate processing operations previously saved in step that allows the primary user to access the last screen to confirm completion of the processing. Thereafter the process proceeds to step where the process is terminated.

The root of the tree structure of the model structure is the business process ID that specifies the business process requested by the primary user from the application server . The business process IDs are allocated in advance to the respective business processes and should be known to or easily learned by the primary user before data entry operations begin.

At the next lower hierarchical level the model structure has at least one input screen identifier ID for specifying an input screen for entering data necessary for performing the business process specified by the business process ID. In one embodiment of the present invention only the input screen ID of the input screen including the input field for which a delegate user has been designated is included in the model structure. In one embodiment of the present invention the input screen ID for specifying the input screen may be a URL Uniform Resource Locator for the corresponding input screen.

At the next lower hierarchical level the model structure has an input field identifier for a particular input field included in the input screen specified by the input screen ID. In one embodiment of the present invention only the input field ID of the input field for which the delegate user has been designated is included in the model structure.

At the next lower hierarchical level the model structure has a delegate user ID for specifying the user to whom the task of providing data entry for the identified input field has been delegated. It is assumed in one embodiment of the present invention that an input field ID and a delegate user ID are always associated. In one embodiment of the present invention the delegate user ID may be an e mail address for the corresponding designated user.

The root of the segmented task tree structure is a delegate data entry task ID for specifying the data entry task assigned to a respective delegate user. In one embodiment of the present invention the delegate data entry task IDs are associated with the delegate user IDs in the model structure received by the agent server and the generated delegate data entry task IDs are each recorded as a root of the segmented task structure .

At next lower hierarchical level the segmented task structure includes a delegate user ID for specifying the delegate user who is responsible for performing the data entry task and a business process ID generated from the business process ID of the model structure .

The segmented task structure includes an input screen ID at a hierarchical level beneath the level having the business process ID and an input field ID at a hierarchical level beneath the level having the input screen ID . The input screen ID and the input field ID of the segmented task structure are generated from the input screen ID and the input field ID respectively of the model structure . Only those screen and field ID s associated with the delegate user ID included in the segmented task structure are extracted and recorded.

The enterprise system operates according to the workflow process in the following manner. When the workflow process is activated the workflow process starts at the start process step . In the multicast process step for each delegate data entry task a processing request of the delegate data entry task is transmitted to the delegate user terminal associated with the designated delegate user. Thereafter the delegate data entry task is carried out in the delegate user terminal and the input data entered by the delegate user is transmitted to the agent server .

Next when every delegated data entry task has been completed or more specifically on the condition that notification of completion has been received from the agent server that received the input data for all the delegate data entry tasks the process proceeds to the aggregation process step . In the aggregation process step an instruction to start the delegate processing is transmitted to the agent server and then the process proceeds to the end process step where the workflow process is terminated.

The delegate user terminal in response to reception of the request for the delegate data entry task starts the processing of the delegate data entry task included in the workflow process and assigned to the terminal user to receive a data input from the designated delegate user into the corresponding input field.

The recording media such as flexible disk MO CD ROM and DVD ROM are inserted into the removable storages. These recording media the hard disk drives and a ROM are capable of recording computer program codes for implementing the present invention by providing instructions to the CPU and others by cooperating with an operating system. The computer program is executed as it is loaded to the maim memory . The computer program may be compressed or divided into a plurality of pieces to be recorded on a plurality of media.

The information processing apparatus receives an input from input devices such as a keyboard and a mouse via a keyboard mouse controller . The information processing apparatus is connected via a DAC LCDC to a display device for providing visual data to a user.

The information processing apparatus can connect to a network via a network adapter Ethernet R card or token ring card to communicate with other computers. The information processing apparatus can also connect to a printer via a parallel port or to a modem via a serial port.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or improvements are possible for the embodiment described above. For example although the collaboration server the user management server and the workflow server are shown separately from the agent server in the embodiment of the present invention it is possible to implement the servers with logically divided partitions existing on one and same package hardware. Alternatively part or all of the functions provided by the servers that are necessary for accomplishing the present invention may be implemented as a software component introduced into the agent server.

In one embodiment of the present invention the selection list is used for the input user to select a delegate user by communicating with the user management server. Alternatively it may be configured such that on the condition that a delegate user matching a specific notation method defined in advance for an input field is designated the plug in detects and interprets the same to specify the designation of the delegate.

While the normal mode or the delegate data entry mode is explicitly selected by the input user in one embodiment of the present invention it may also be configured such that it is determined that the delegate and data entry mode is selected on the condition that the plug in detects matching with the above described specific notation method. In this case it is preferable that the plug in redirects the data transmission to the application server and the like to the agent server as required. Further while the reproduction processing is carried out on the background in the embodiment of the present invention it may be carried out on the foreground in order to provide the delegate input user with more information necessary for the delegate input operation.

In one embodiment of the present invention the reproduction processing at the delegate input user terminal is performed through interaction with the application server. Alternatively it may be configured such that the input user terminal records input screen data in the HTML XML format and transmits the same to the agent server and the agent server uses the received input screen data to provide a delegate input user with the interface for processing the delegate data entry task without the need to interact with the application server.

While it is configured in one embodiment of the present invention that the primary user enters a tentative value together with designation of a delegate input user it may also be configured such that the plug in automatically allocates the tentative value based on the attribute of the input field and or the input history in the past.

While the delegate processing file is executed in the browser environment of the agent server in the embodiment of the present invention it may also be configured such that the agent server remotely controls the input user terminal and others so that the delegate processing is performed in the browser environment of the input user terminal.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to preferred embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

