---

title: Method and system for mobile services
abstract: A method for providing mobile services, such as mobile financial services, includes providing a wireless handset or other device as an adjunct access device for a user account. The device is assigned a unique identification number, such as an MDN, MEID, or both. The unique identification number is associated with the account and in an exemplary embodiment, comprises at least a portion of the account number(s) with the service provider. Transactions are conducted with the handset access device and enhanced multi-factor and biometric security authentication may be provided. Handset voice, data, or other usage is settled and billed within the financial account. The service provider is able to download software, advertising, or content applications to the adjunct device and maintains the capability to disable the device. In a further aspect, a system for the execution of mobile transactions is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07766223&OS=07766223&RS=07766223
owner: 
number: 07766223
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081103
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e based on U.S. provisional application No. 60 986 559 filed Nov. 8 2007. The aforementioned provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to a method and system for facilitating wireless transactions using a wireless device and more particularly a method and system that integrates a wireless adjunct device into a high security environment for simultaneous management and manipulation of a single wireless device and one or more user accounts via a unique identification number of the wireless adjunct device such as the MDN and or MSISDN.

The system and method disclosed herein find particular application in conjunction with banking or other financial transactions conducted with a financial institution and will be described primarily with particular reference thereto. However it is to be appreciated that the system and method herein are amenable to all manner of financial and non financial transactions between a customer and a service provider using a wireless device including without limitation transactions in the fields of banking finance health care multimedia entertainment and so forth.

Economic activity increases as advances in banking and payment systems are developed. Ubiquitous wireless devices including telephones demonstrate potential for a new paradigm in banking and payments. Both consumers and financial institutions desire secure cost reducing convenience enhancing wireless mobile banking and payment systems.

Currently most mobile financial service processes involve complex executable software that must be designed for all equipment on all platforms. Other available transactions schemes pass sensitive data amongst multiple parties that may or may not exhibit due care. Convenience suffers with design requirements for multiple accounts across multiple platforms. Also would be service providers and financial institutions currently design systems and processes for multiple devices across multiple communications platforms.

Typically to deliver mobile financial services a financial institution such as a national bank develops proprietary software to conduct financial transactions on wireless mobile telephones. Since consumers own myriad handset models produced by many manufacturers and registered with multiple carriers potentially operating on multiple wireless or cellular technologies e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA WiMax WiFi etc. banks must develop such software so that it conveniently downloads and operates within hundreds of different problem sets. Further the bank must develop such software so that it executes properly in several development environments e.g. Java Brew J2ME OFX and others and across several different telephone carriers e.g. AT T Sprint and so forth . See Tompkins et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. US2007 0053518. This remains the case whether designing a financial product specifically involving but not limited to banking payments insurance wagering foreign remittance brokerage health care health care savings payroll or other type or style of account.

Another drawback in the current art beside the need to develop cross carrier cross device cross platform transactional software is the need for carrier approval both prior and ongoing to place executable software on handsets that access their respective networks. Such permission is obtained often at great cost at the pleasure of the carrier.

Another drawback of known systems beyond carrier assent and cross development is the need to conveniently distribute such software to account holders in versions appropriate for their particular handset and to train consumers in how to download and operate the software.

Furthermore transactional and data security pass through many hands in the current state of the art. Once operable on the handset the software in order to execute financial transactions must often pass instructions through a software development firm s servers through other service provider servers for management and storage and transmission and others in order for the national bank to settle financial transactions. See Viijoen U.S. Patent Publication No. US2005 0038744.

Other attempted prior art wireless mobile financial transaction solutions involve the use of SMS messages. One advantage of using SMS for delivering financial transaction capability is that it successfully interacts with all wireless devices and requires no handset based executable software or carrier assent to utilize. However SMS messages cost money to send and receive are susceptible to electronic listening suffer from latency time out issues lack confirmation of delivery to an intended recipient as well as identity verification problems where the receiver or sender is never 100 sure of the other s identity. See Dodin U.S. Patent Publication No. US2007 0203836. Another drawback to the use of SMS messages for mobile financial transaction is that SMS messages containing potentially sensitive financial or account information are stored in the mobile radio terminal s memory. See Hawkes U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 902.

In another drawback to prior art systems a bank or financial institution which is customarily in complete security control of all of its processes and regulatory obligations depends on multiple parties that may or may not take due care during the completion of a transaction. Consumers deeming banks trustworthy may have no understanding regarding the number of parties with access to their personal information or who may be processing handling or storing their personal information.

Currently it is inconvenient for consumers to understand their account balances in real time and to know when overdrafts may occur or when consumers may deem it advisable to overdraft their accounts. In the current state of the art banks and other financial institutions produce in house evaluations and risk assessments regarding consumer balances and overdraft scores. See Simpson et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. US2007 0203827 Keiser et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. US2007 0100745. Consumers may or may not know that they are overdrafting in a situation and may or may not understand the fees to be incurred for doing so.

Additionally in the current art it is most difficult to manage multiple financial accounts or more specifically parent and subsidiary accounts between family members or those with other relationships. See Dunn et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 249 092.

Also in the current state of the art transaction and data security can be premised on biometric authentication solutions and more specifically voice biometric authentications. Such biometric authentication is desirable at specific transaction or security thresholds such as dollar amount access to space or access to records e.g. medical or financial records. However voice biometric authentication solutions available require mapping of ultra large datasets. See Manohar et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. US2007 0155366. Such solutions require vast amounts of database storage require more time to complete search and comparison functions and are subject to false and fraudulent biometric authentications specifically false positive voice biometric authentications from fraudulent recordings. See Schutzer U.S. Pat. No. 7 168 091.

Also in the current state of the art consumer handsets used for wireless financial transactions or other transactions or for access to sensitive information such as health care information are set up for the consumer s preferences and tastes. Consumers and account holders also may not keep their wireless accounts open rendering their access to any executable software or SMS styled transactions schemes for which they may have registered dubious. Consumers may also abuse their financial accounts and or their access to those accounts.

Accordingly the present disclosure provides a new and improved method and system for facilitating wireless transactions using a wireless device that overcome the above referenced problems and others.

In one aspect a method for facilitating wireless transaction bank financial institution or other service provider includes providing a wireless mobile device such as a telephone satellite telephone personal digital assistant PDA portable computer or the like to an account holder and simultaneously issuing the account holder a unique identification number of the type enabling the wireless device access to a wireless network such as a mobile directory number MDN and or a mobile equipment identification number MEID . The account holder may then use the device to conduct transactions. Multi factor user authentication is used to verify the identity of the user as the account holder and optionally further enhanced biometric security may be provided. The account holder may also employ the wireless device for voice or data transmissions and communications as the case may be. In certain embodiments the financial institution or other service provider may input software applications to the device download software applications to the device remotely via the wireless communication network or disable the device remotely via the wireless communication network. In a further aspect a system for providing mobile financial services is provided.

One advantage of the mobile transactions system and method in accordance with the present disclosure resides in the ability to reduce cost reduce design requirements increase security and enhance convenience over existing mobile transaction systems.

Another advantage of the system and method in accordance with the present disclosure is that they are carrier independent.

Another advantage of the presently disclosed system and method resides in the fact that they limit the software platforms and hardware equipments necessary to design software for or in certain embodiments eliminate the need for executable software entirely.

Still another advantage of the presently disclosed system and method is found in that at least some of the shortcomings associated with SMS financial transaction methods are alleviated by the present disclosure since no sensitive data is left in the memory of wireless device and user identity may be confirmed through the use of a biometric authentication such as voice biometric authentication.

Yet another advantage of the presently disclosed system and method is that they allow for a more centralized streamlined and secure process for executing mobile financial services. It would therefore be desirable to provide enhanced multi factor authentication and still further enhanced biometric security to transactions where threshold values data sensitivity etc. may warrant it without fear of recordings producing false positive authentications.

Still another advantage of the present disclosure is that it provides the ability for consumer participation in the overdraft process wherein the adjunct wireless device can be used to offer the account holder whether by voice or SMS an option to authenticate and authorize or to deny an overdrafting circumstance in real time.

Another advantage of the present disclosure is found in that parent accounts may be associated with a primary adjunct access device and MDN and one or more subsidiary accounts associated with one or more additional adjunct access devices thus enabling in conjunction with internet online banking pre set preferences a method of issuing peer to peer payments amongst and between the parent account and the subsidiary account s .

Yet another advantage of the present disclosure resides in its ability to utilize voice biometric data sets that are easily and swiftly analyzed to quickly authenticate approve and consummate financial transactions.

Still another advantage of the present disclosure is found in that financial institutions seeking to transact wirelessly with account holders in profitable manner are able to import or download software or applications or content or accessories to the wireless adjunct device to maximize it for use with the financial institutions programs and procedures or for the institution to disable the device in the case of misuse or in other circumstance.

Still further advantages and benefits of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading and understanding the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

While not to be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention unless specifically indicated for purposes of this specification the terms used herein have the following definitions unless indicated otherwise.

 MDN means Mobile Directory Number and represents the unique 10 digit telephone number assigned to a particular mobile handset account. MDN may also include other numbering systems or terminologies including specifically but not limited to Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network MSISDN number.

 MEID means Mobile Equipment Identifier and means a globally unique number for a handset device and includes other terms specifically but not limited to ESN electronic serial number pESN pseudo ESN and tESN true ESN as well as IMEI UIMID and others.

 SMS means short message service also known as text messaging. SMS includes other terms specifically but not limited to skymail or short mail and email variants such as Blackberry messages including multi part SMS.

With reference now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a system overview of the functional components or modules in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure. The system includes an on boarding module for on boarding a financial account at a financial institution see which may include recording and storing a keyword or key phrase associated with the account holder for biometric identification verification purposes. An online banking module is provided for opening an online banking account. A transactioning module is provided for conducting transactions with the account including mobile transactions performed with a wireless device see . An authentication module is provided for authenticating transactions and a settlement module is provided for settling the financial account transactions. An ownership rights module is provided to allow the financial institution to download software advertising or other content to the wireless adjunct device and or disabling the wireless device as the case may require.

Referring now to an exemplary method of onboarding an account at the financial institution is illustrated. An account holder may register for a financial account with the bank or financial institution via a number of methods. For example the account holder may visit the institution via a physical branch may sign up over the phone via a call center or may sign up online via an Internet interface .

At step the bank creates a user account and associates an adjunct wireless device see with the account. The wireless adjunct device may be without limitation a wireless mobile radio cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a portable computer or other hand held or portable computer based information handling system.

The bank assigns to the account holder a unique identification number for the wireless access device the unique identification number being of the type which enables the device to access a wireless communications network for voice and data usage access to the financial institution and access to credit card debit card ATM and other payment or transaction networks. The unique identification number may be for example the MDN MSISDN and or MEID of the adjunct device.

The bank also assigns an account number to the new account opened at step and creates an association between the account number and the unique identification number of the adjunct device e.g. in a phone identification database see . In a preferred embodiment the numbering system of the account is such that the account number corresponds to the unique identification number of the wireless adjunct device and more preferably to the MDN or MSISDN. If required the account number may contain additional digits beyond those contained in the unique identification number.

At step the wireless adjunct device is given to the account holder as an access device similar to an ATM card or checkbook. In a preferred embodiment the adjunct device may be included as a part of an onboarding package which may additionally include for example starter checks an ATM card debit credit card or credit card and or other equipment suitable for the type of financial institution and or type of account opened.

At step the client activates the wireless adjunct device e.g. via activation instructions provided by the financial institution at the opening of a financial or other type of account. The user also records and transmits a biometric key phrase voice print to be stored for future transaction using the adjunct device simultaneous with the activation of the adjunct device . The device will generally be equipped with a microphone for the input of an acoustic signal and which may be integral to the device or separately attachable e.g. as a part of a head set or the like. As used herein the term microphone refers to any acousto electric transducer capable of converting acoustic signals into electrical signals. The account holder is also provided with an online internet banking interface in order to set up SMS WAP or IP pre sets to enable financial transaction capability with the adjunct wireless communication device . Other types of biometric data such as fingerprint data retinal scan data or facial recognition data and so forth are also contemplated.

In certain embodiments multiple wireless adjunct devices may be provided along with multiple associated MDN s or MSISDN s or the like to parent and subsidiary accounts in order to use each device to conduct transactions in the customary mode of the present disclosure or in conjunction with each other in peer to peer mode consistent with information pre set on the associated online banking accounts.

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary banking method and system. After initial set up and authentication of the online banking account as identified by its associated unique identification number such as MDN and MEID to conduct transactions via SMS WAP IP or other transmittal of banking or financial transactions an account holder may then execute standard financial transactions via a number of methods such as using an online banking system a contactless transaction terminal e.g. via Bluetooth Technology Radio Frequency Identification RFID or near field communication technology NFC for access to the credit card debit card ATM and point of sale POS networks. When the wireless adjunct device is employed with contactless technology it may preferably operate in one or more of simple contactless card emulation mode interactive reader mode or peer to peer P2P mode.

Transactions may also be conducted using standard paper checks with an ABA number in addition to the MDN associated account number using the wireless adjunct device via an interactive voice response IVR system or via a live call center a funds transfer and online bill pay system Automated Clearing House ACH payments and direct deposit 310. All transactions are settled with the clearing system via the banks core 308 and incoming deposits 309.

When the second authentication factor which represents something the account holder knows such as a pin number or password and which may be a temporary pin or password is required the process proceeds to step . At step it is determined whether the second authentication factor passed whether the correct PIN or password was input. If the second authentication factor fails as step the process proceeds to step and a message that the transaction has been denied is sent to the adjunct device via a message center . For most transactions the second authentication factor is a sufficient level of authentication. Biometric authentication can provide a third level of authentication i.e. something the account holder is in several embodiments.

For near field point of sale or ATM transactions using the mobile adjunct device wherein the second authentication factor is bypassed the process proceeds from step directly to the third authentication factor and proceed as described below. Even where the authentication factors and are bypassed an advanced two factor authentication scheme for near field POS or ATM transactions is provided wherein the first factor is the adjunct device itself which is something the user has and the second factor being the user s biometric characteristic i.e. the voiceprint.

In addition to transactions using near field communications the mobile device may also provide various transaction possibilities in the form of SMS messages or networking via messaging channel and voice with DTMF dual tone multi frequency input via voice channel . Transaction instructions or data may be transmitted to a messaging center at step via the channel . At step the messaging center authenticates the transaction using the first authentication factor by comparing against the message header MDN and MEID of the access device .

If the MDN is not associated with an account at the financial institution the process proceeds to step and a transaction denied message is transmitted to the user via the messaging center . If the MDN matches an MDN associated with an account at the bank at step the process proceeds to step where it is determined whether the phone ID MEID matches the MEID associated with the account. If the MEID does not match the MEID associated with the account the process proceeds to step and a transaction denied message is transmitted to the user via the messaging center . If the MEID matches the MEID associated with the account at step the process proceeds to step . Alternatively the second authentication factor may be bypassed and the process may proceed directly to the third authentication factor as represented by the broken lines .

Where the second authentication factor is required a second authentication factor such as a card ID or a PIN password is input at step . If the transaction is executed at a fixed location such as an ATM or POS terminal the second authentication factor may be input via the ATM or POS hardware. If the transaction is being performed from a remote location via messaging channel the pin or password may be input using a keypad touch screen or the like of the wireless device . In this manner multi factor authentication of financial or other transactions can be executed without providing any sensitive or personal information resident the memory of the adjunct device .

If the second authentication factor fails at step the process proceeds to step and a transaction denied message is sent to the wireless device . If the second authentication factor passes at step the bank is triggered to determine whether sufficient funds are available in the account for the transaction sought to be executed at step . If sufficient funds are not available at step the process continues to step and a transaction denied message is sent to the wireless device via the messaging center .

It is contemplated that the unique identification number e.g. MDN and wireless adjunct device to enable account holders to participate in the overdraft approval process via SMS or voice biometric authentication in real time to authorize and authenticate or to decline as the case may be pending overdraft transactions.

If sufficient funds are available to complete the requested transaction at step the process proceeds to step wherein it is determined whether the transaction amount exceeds some preselected or predetermined threshold value or other security threshold or criteria such as a prespecified dollar value or sensitive nature of information or data being accessed. If the transaction amount security threshold is not reached at step the process proceeds directly to step and a transaction approved message is sent to the account holder via the messaging center .

If the transaction amount is above the threshold amount or other financial or security threshold is reached at step the process continues to step and a secure third biometric authentication factor such as a voice biometric authentication or voice print is required to securely authenticate the transaction. In the depicted preferred embodiment herein the voice biometric data unit comprises a two factor voiceprint and keyword combination. Alternatively the process may proceed directly step where one or both of the first and second authentication factors were bypasses i.e. via pathways or .

If the third biometric authentication factor is required as step the process continues to step wherein a call is placed to the access device and the user speaks the keyword or phrase. The input keyword or phrase is compared to the voice recording of the user stored in the database see . If the spoken keyword or phrase does not match the stored voiceprint of the account holder e.g. comparing for both the correct words and the correct voice the process continues to step and a transaction denied message is sent to the wireless device via the messaging center . If the spoken keyword or phrase matches the stored voiceprint of the account holder the process proceeds to step and a transaction approved message is sent to the wireless device via the messaging center .

For transactions in which the standard second authentication factor was bypassed as represented by the broken lines or and wherein the voiceprint was authenticated the process proceeds to step as represented by the broken line to determine whether there are sufficient funds in the account to complete the transaction. If there are sufficient funds the transaction approved message is sent. If there are not sufficient funds a transaction denied message is sent.

If it is determined at step that the call is placed from an appropriate MDN or MEID the process continues to step and the user is prompted e.g. via an on screen prompt appearing on a display of the adjunct device to speak the key word or key phrase into a microphone of the adjunct device. The spoken keyword or phrase thus input to the adjunct device with digital noise layered over the key phrase input recorded session. A digital representation of the spoken keyword or key phrase is transmitted to the biometric identity scoring site see via the communications link and at step it is determined whether a match exists between the spoken keyword or phrase input in step and the prerecorded voiceprint stored in the database . If there is a match at step the process continues to step and the transaction is authenticated authorized and accepted.

If there is not a match at step continues to step and it is determined whether the biometric authorization has failed some predetermined number of times e.g. three in the illustrated embodiment. If the predetermined number of failed authorization attempts e.g. failed attempts has not been reached at step the process returns to step the user is asked to again input the spoken keyword phrase and the process continues as described above. If at step it is determined that a positive biometric validation has not been obtained within the preselected number of attempts e.g. 3 the process continues to step and the transaction is rejected.

Alternatively the adjunct device may be used for voice and data communication at step . Such transactions may include peer to peer transfers or transfers to other in network account holders step or out of network accounts step . The account holder may also conduct out of network financial transactions via the conventional ATM or Point of Sale networks via debit cards step or via checks step .

Settlement is conducted on the financial account or the primary financial account where several subsidiary accounts are present within the financial institution s core system on a real time basis for all financial transactions including those conducted utilizing the wireless adjunct device and further including settlement of the voice and data and other content or accessory aspects or charges associated with use of the adjunct wireless device via an appropriate application programming interface API into the single or primary financial account within the financial institution s core system.

The underlying carrier based cellular tracking system sends the adjunct device voice and data usage and mobile payment and account activity records through to the financial institution via XML stream or other data feed to the banks core system which are cleared using the bank s clearing system.

As deemed necessary for quality of service requirements features or cost offset the bank now has a single platform for service enhancement and retains the right to import or download software or software updates to the phone step from time to time as a financial institution may deem necessary e.g. to facilitate financial transactions or other types of transactions to advertise upon the device step the right to load content such as multi media content to device step the right to ask for return of the device step and the right to offset within the account holder s financial account for loss theft and abuse step .

The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Modifications and alterations will occur to others upon a reading and understanding of the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

