---

title: Systems and methods for providing an OEM level networked lighting system
abstract: The present application is generally directed to systems and methods for control and management of lighting components connected in a network. A user specified rule is executed to control lighting effects in a lighting network which comprises an interface module in communication with one or more lighting control modules. The interface module may receive a rule for controlling a lighting network. The rule may comprise a user identified input and a user specified lighting effect to occur responsive to the user identified input. The interface module detects receipt of the user identified input and executes the rule to trigger the user specified lighting effect via the one or more lighting control modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08742686&OS=08742686&RS=08742686
owner: Integrated Illumination Systems, Inc.
number: 08742686
owner_city: Morris
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080924
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 974 721 filed on Sep. 24 2007 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application is generally directed towards providing control and management of LED systems via a network.

The Lighting Emitting Diode LED lighting industry is a fast growing market. LED lighting offers a strong value proposition as a lighting solution by reducing maintenance expense and lowering energy requirements for lighting systems while not producing hazardous materials. As such traditional lighting original equipment manufacturers OEMs continue to adopt the LED light source for typical lighting applications. However the lack of standardization in the industry and special requirements for powering and controlling LED systems are a barrier to entry. There currently exists no LED bulb that provides adequate illumination as a light source. Most fixture manufacturers create new or retrofit existing luminaries to accommodate LED light sources. These LED light sources require proper thermal management and optical design. In addition to the overall mechanics the electrical requirements of an LED source may be demanding. The LED is a low voltage DC device and sensitive to voltage and current fluctuations.

Some companies have developed packaged drivers LED Drivers for LED luminaries. These LED drivers are essentially constant current power supplies configured to provide a set current value to the LEDs despite the input voltage to the luminaire. For example an LED driver may take a 120VAC input and provide a 350 mA constant current output. In addition to these packaged LED Drivers other semiconductor OEMs are developing LED Driver chips. These LED chips are integrated circuits that may be incorporated at the board level to integrate sensing technology and digital or analog input for providing power to the LED luminaire.

There are two typical LED driver customers. The first is what may be considered a traditional lighting OEM customer. These traditional OEM companies have specialized in packaging to incorporate standard ballasts and bulbs into metal and plastic housings with all components being plug and play and typically color coded. In most cases this type of LED customer uses the traditional ballast style LED Driver packaged such that wire leads may be easily connected to predefined inputs and outputs. The second type of customer is one who understands electronic design and designs a printed circuit board PCB that will accommodate an LED driver chip. This type of customer will specifically customize the PCB for the target application.

It is unlikely to find these two types of customers are one in the same. As such the LED OEM driver typically provides either the simple plug and play LED driver or a customized LED driver solution. The first type of customer uses the simple LED Driver plug and play solution that provides conventional and convenient means of hookup. However these plug and play solutions offer no means of advanced lighting control such as flashing sequences color mixing etc. The second type of customer may obtain an advanced control solution but through the integration of highly sophisticated control system in which the programming is done at the job site such that sequencing and effects may be achieved at the control panel level. However these integrated systems are complex require much setup customized for every job and are expensive such that only the highest end applications receive such integration.

The systems and methods of the present disclosure described herein addresses the large void in the OEM LED driver market between the simple plug and play LED driver and the customized and complex integrated LED driver systems. The present disclosure provides an LED control and management system to create sophisticated networked and integrated LED based lighting systems without requiring knowledge of electronic design or complex programming. This LED control system provides a level of simplicity and user friendliness of the previous plug and play LED driver solution while providing the advanced control capabilities of the more complex integrated systems. Additionally the LED control system offers versatility such that each module of the system may be configured to function as needed for the overall system. A configuration package of the solution provides a simple configuration tool to configure the functionality of each of the modules without complexity.

In overview the LED control system of the present solution includes a programmable LED Control Module LCM a programmable User Interface Module UIM and a computer based configuration software package CSP . The UIM and LCM modules are network enabled devices that communicate with each other to form a lighting network for controlling and managing one or more LCD sources. This network may be wireless. The LCM controls the light output of various off the shelf or custom designed LED Drivers which power LEDs installed to an LED Light Fixture. The UIMs receive digital data or analog signals in which they interpret and provide the correct commands and sequences to the LCMs via wireless or wired communication. The LCM receives the commands from the UIM to control the light output of the LED in accordance with the command. The CSP provides a configuration tool to create rules or command sequences for controlling the lighting based on triggers from the signals received by the UIM.

The present disclosure offers many advantages including standardization of the LCM and UIM that may be configured to interface with any digital and or analog input and to provide any LED driver output. Real time data available from any type and form of input such as physical sensors or Internet input may trigger and influence the lighting effects managed via the UIM and LCM. The system leverages and uses any existing LED source and driver technology such that the LCM control system is an addition to instead of a replacement for this technology. Furthermore the integration of wireless communications between the LCM and UIM modules enables the deployment of advanced illumination capabilities for retrofit installations The use of user friendly drag and drop and wizard based configuration software allows any non technical designer to create advanced lighting control rules.

In some aspects the present disclosure is related to systems and methods for executing a user specified rule to control lighting effects in a lighting network. The lighting network may comprise an interface module in communication with one or more lighting control modules. The interface module may receive a rule for controlling a lighting network. The interface module may be in communication with one or more lighting control modules of the lighting network. The rule may comprise a user identified input and a user specified lighting effect to occur via the one or more lighting control modules responsive to the user identified input. The interface module may detect the receipt of the user identified input and execute in response to the detection the rule to trigger the user specified lighting effect via the one or more lighting control modules.

In some embodiments the interface module receives a set of executable instructions comprising the rule. In numerous embodiments the interface module receives the rule comprising a user specified predetermined threshold of the user identified input for which to trigger the user specified lighting effect. Sometimes the interface module may receive data as input via one or more analog or digital ports of the interface module. Sometimes the interface module may receive data as input via a network port of the interface module. In some embodiments the interface module detects the user identified input from a stream of data received via a port. In a variety of embodiments any one of lighting network components communicates one or more instructions to the one or more lighting control modules to produce the user specified lighting effect. Sometimes any one of lighting network components communicates one or more instructions to the one or more lighting control modules to produce the user specified lighting effect for a user specified time period. The instructions may be communicated via a variety of ways to program the one or more lighting control modules.

In some aspects the present disclosure is related to systems and methods for configuring a user specified rule to control lighting effects in a lighting network which comprises an interface module in communication with one or more lighting control modules. A configuration tool may receive a user s identification of an input to be received via an interface module for controlling one or more lighting control modules of a lighting network. The configuration tool may receive a user s specification of a lighting effect to occur via the one or more lighting control modules and responsive to the user identified input. In many embodiments the configuration tool provides for execution on the interface module a rule comprising the user specified lighting effect to occur via the one or more lighting control modules responsive to the user identified input.

In some embodiments the configuration tool or any other lighting network component receives a user s identification of a value of data that may be received by an analog or digital interface of the interface module. In many embodiments the configuration tool or any other lighting network component receives a user s identification of a value of data that may be received via network interface of the interface module. Sometimes the configuration tool may receive a user s identification of the input based on a type of interface configured on the interface module. In some embodiments the configuration tool or any other lighting network component receives a user s specification of the lighting effects as a sequence of one or more instructions to communicate to the one or more lighting control modules. The configuration tool may also receive a user s specification of the lighting effects as a sequence of one or more instructions to communicate to the one or more lighting control modules. In some embodiments the configuration tool receives a user s specification of the lighting effect as an identification of a program to execute on the one or more lighting control modules. In a number of embodiments the configuration tool receives a user s specification of the lighting effect as an identification of a program to execute on the interface module. In a number of embodiments the user specifies a lighting scheme for the lighting effect. The configuration tool may generate a set of executable instructions representing the rule. In some embodiments any lighting network component may communicate the set of executable instructions to the interface module.

The details of various embodiments of the present solution are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

The features and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments of the present invention below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Prior to discussing the specifics of embodiments of the systems and methods of the LED control system and lighting network of the present solution it may be helpful to discuss the network and computing environments in which such embodiments may be deployed. Referring now to an embodiment of a lighting network environment is depicted. In brief overview a lighting network environment includes one or more user interface modules UIMs for controlling and managing one or more LED control modules LCMs A N generally referred to as LCM . Each LED control module in turn may drive control or manage an LED driver A N generally referred to as LED driver and a LED source A N generally referred to as LED source . One or more LCMs A LED Driver A and LED may form a lighting group A or lighting sub network. A configuration software package CSP may be used to configure any of the logic function or operations of the UIM and or LCM .

The lighting network may include a plurality of network enabled devices such as a network enabled UIM communicating via a network with one or more network enabled LCMs . As will be described in further detail below each of these network enabled devices may have a network address for communicating with each other. Each of the network enabled UIMs and LCMs A N may communicate via a wired and or wireless network using any type and form of protocol. In some embodiments the UIM and LCMs communicate over an Internet Protocol or Ethernet based network. In various embodiments the lighting network may be considered to include those lighting related devices in communication with each other to perform any of the functionality and operations described herein. As such in some embodiments the lighting network includes the UIM and one or more LCMs A N. In other embodiments the lighting network includes the UIM and the LCM and any LED drivers A N and LEDs A N controlled and managed by the LCM and or UIM. In yet another embodiment the lighting network includes the CSP in communication with the UIM . In further embodiments the lighting network includes the UIM the CSP and any LCMs A N.

The lighting network may be established organized configured or arranged to have one or more lightings groups such as lighting group A generally referred to as a lighting group as depicted in . One or more LCMs A controlling an LED driver A and LED source A may be identified or organized into a lighting group . In some embodiments a lighting group includes a segment of a network . In other embodiments the lighting group is a sub network of network . In yet other embodiments a lighting group includes a set of one or more lighting related devices logically grouped as a unit for control and management purposes. Although depicts a lighting group with one LCM A one LED driver A and one LED A a lighting group may include a plurality of LCMs A N each controlling or managing one or more LED drivers A N and or LED sources A N.

In the lighting network the UIM provides various interfaces such as analog or digital interfaces that may be configured to perform tasks such as any lighting related task described herein. The UIM receives input from these interfaces that influences or controls output to the LCM which in turn controls and drives the LED drivers and LED source . A first UIM may communicate via a network with and manage a plurality of LCMs A N. In some embodiments a plurality of UIMs A N may be used to communicate with and manage a plurality of LCMs A N. In other embodiments a first UIM A and a second UIM B may both communicate with and or manage the same LCM or set of LCMs A N. In one embodiment a UIM may be used to communicate and manage a lighting group .

The UIM may also provide status feedback or any other information about the operation and performance of the lighting network or any portion thereof such as a specific LCM or LED driver. For example the UIM may present a web page via the network to a user to determine the status of various operational aspects of the lighting network . The UIM may include any monitoring and or logging agents to detect and capture any activity of the operations and performance of the lighting network or any portion thereof. In one embodiment the UIM provides information on the status of the network between the UIM and any LCMs . In another embodiment the UIM provides information on the status of an LCM .

The LCM provides a mechanism and means to interface digital controls and logic to a typical or otherwise dumb LED fixture . The LCM receives input commands or instructions from the UIM and or CSP with respect to controlling managing driving or otherwise directing the operation of the LED driver and corresponding LED source . The LCM provides any type and form of output to transmit signals to a corresponding LED driver . The LCM may include any type and form of communication interface analog and or digital to communicate with an LED driver . In some embodiments the LCM may communicate with the LED driver via any type and form of software communication interface such as an application programming interface API . In other embodiments the LCM may communicate with the LED driver using any type and form of hardware interface.

An LCM may communicate with one or more LED drivers . In some embodiments a first LCM A communicates with a first LED driver A and a second LCM B communicates with a second LED driver B and a third LCM C communicates with a third LED driver C and so on. In other embodiments a first LCM B communicates with a first LED driver A and a second LED driver B. In yet another embodiment a first LCM A and a second LCM B are both used to communicate with one or more LED drivers . In some cases a second LCM B may be used concurrently with a first LCM A for communicating with an LED driver . In other cases the second LCM may used as backup or a redundant LCM to the first LCM A for communicating with one or more LED drivers .

The LED driver may include any type of logic function or operation for controlling the current and or power delivered to an LED source . The LED driver may include software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In various embodiments the LED driver functions as an electronically controlled current source providing a predetermined amount of current to one or more attached LED lighting modules in response to received control signals. In one embodiment the LED driver acts as or provides a constant current power supply configured to provide a set current value to the LEDs despite the input voltage to the luminaire. For example an Advance Transformer LED driver may take a 120VAC input and provide a 350 mA constant current output whereas the current is controlled and the voltage is stepped down a typical buck topology. In some cases the LED driver may boost voltages in the case where the input voltage is lower than the forward voltage of the LEDs to be powered. In one case the LED driver may be configured as a buck boost whereas the input voltage may be stepped up or stepped down as required. In some embodiments these LED Drivers offer dimming via a PWM pulse width modulated signal or analog control voltages including 0 to 10V control voltages. In other cases the LED driver may pulse the power input to the LED source on and off in order to adjust the intensity of the LED source .

The LED driver may include a voltage controlled current source a current controlled current source a power MOSFET Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor power amplifiers power transistors or high current op amps as well as resistive capacitive and switching elements. In some embodiments the LED driver includes current limiting circuit elements at its output so that current levels in excess of an LED s maximum rated value may not be exceeded. The driver may include one or more input ports e.g. a signal control receiving port and an override control port and one or more output ports e.g. one or multiple signal output ports a driver status port and one or more current sensing ports. The LED driver may receive and send pulse width modulated signals e.g. square wave signals with variable duty cycle. The input ports of the LED driver may include over voltage protection and surge protection to prevent damage by transient electrical fluctuations at its input ports.

In some embodiments the LED driver may be an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or a commercially produced off the shelf LED driver chip. The driver may be packaged in a housing as a separate element of the lighting network or may be incorporated into another element of the network or lighting group e.g. into an LCM A or into an LED lighting assembly A. As an ASIC or commercially available driver chip the driver may be incorporated onto a printed circuit board PCB for custom design or original equipment manufacturing circuit applications. The LED driver may have an external power supply which powers internal circuitry in the driver and provides a source of amperage for the attached LEDs . The external power supply may be dedicated to the LED driver or shared with another element in the lighting network e.g. an LCM.

In one embodiment a first LED driver communicates with or controls a single LED source . In other embodiments a first LED driver A communicates with or controls a plurality of LED sources A N. In other embodiments a first LED driver A communicates with or controls a first LED source A while a second LED driver B communicates with or controls a plurality of LED sources B N.

Examples of commercially available LED drivers include an ADM8845 series LED driver chip providing up to 30 mA current and connections for six LEDs or an AD8240 series chip which must be used with an external transistor to provide sufficient drive current. Both of these driver chips are available from Analog Devices Incorporated of Norwood Mass. Other similar LED driver chips include an FAN5607 LED driver chip available from Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation of South Portland Me. an STP16CP596 LED driver chip available from STMicroelectronics of Lexington Mass. or an LM27952 driver chip available from National Semiconductor Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. An example of a packaged LED driver includes an LEDD1 driver available from Thorlabs of Newton N.J. or a SmartDriver VDX driver available from i2Systems of Morris Conn.

The LED lighting source may include any type and form of Lighting Emitting Diode LED based luminaire or luminaire source such as an LED lighting assembly. In some embodiments the LED may comprise one or more semiconductor p n junction light emitting diodes. The LED assembly may be constructed designed or adapted to receive current from a LED driver and direct the current across the one or more p n junctions in forward bias. In various embodiments the brightness or intensity of light output from a diode is substantially proportionally related to the amount of current flowing across the p n junction. The LED source may include resistors to limit current flow across the one or more diodes and may include heat sinks in thermal contact with the diodes so as to dissipate from the diodes. Optical elements such as lenses or diffusers may be placed over the LEDs to concentrate or disperse emitted light. Wavelength shifting methods such as thin films containing organic fluorescent molecules or inorganic phosphorescent molecules may be included with the diodes to absorb and re emit radiation at wavelengths shifted from the LED s natural emission spectrum. The LED source may include one or more diodes each emitting radiation at distinct wavelengths e.g. red amber green and blue. In other embodiments the LEDs may comprise organic light emitting diodes OLEDs or phosphorescent light emitting diodes PHOLEDs or a combination of LEDs OLEDs and PHOLEDs. In some embodiments the LEDs within an assembly may be mounted on an electromechanically moveable element so that the direction of light output from the LED assembly may be controlled. In yet other embodiments an LED driver may be incorporated within the LED lighting assembly .

Examples of commercially available LED lighting assemblies or LEDs include the VML lighting assembly series the Apeiron SDi Tri Light the V Line series lighting assemblies all available from i2Systems of Morris Conn. Additional examples include the Lumispot or LinkLED lighting assemblies available from Dialight Corporation of Farmingdale N.J. or the Titan LED Light Engines available from Lamina of Westamptom N.J. Alternatively examples of individual LEDs include the ASMT series light sources available from Avago Technologies of Andover Mass.

Still referring to the network may be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

Although shows a network and network generally referred to as network s between the UIM and the LCMs or CSP the UIM LCMs and or CSP may be on the same network . The networks and can be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network may be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. The networks may be a private or public network. In one embodiment network or network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks may be private networks.

Referring now to an example embodiment of a lighting network with a plurality of lighting groups A C is depicted. In brief overview the lighting network includes a first lighting group A having a first LCM A controlling a first LED driver A that is driving an LED source A. The lighting network also includes a second lighting group C. In this lighting group C a second LCM C controls a plurality of LED Drivers C C which in turn each drive a plurality of LED sources C C. The first LED driver C. The LED driver C of this lighting group drives a single LED source C. Another LED driver C of this lighting group drives a plurality of LED sources C C. The UIM may be used to manage the lighting groups A C.

Although depicts an arrangement of lighting groups in the lighting network the lighting network may include any arrangement combination or grouping of LCMs LED Drivers and LED sources in either lighting groups or not in lighting groups. In some cases a first UIM may manage a first lighting group and a second UIM a second lighting group. In another case a UIM may manage one or more LCMs not identified or logically organized into a lighting group.

Referring now to an example embodiment of a lighting network is depicted. In brief overview a UIM may communicate over a network to LCMs A N which in turn controls one or more LED drivers A N driving one or more LED sources A N. This example embodiment of the lighting network will be used herein as a reference for further describing the elements therein. As described in more detail in Section B below and in conjunction with the UIM may include a plurality of analog digital and Internet based inputs to influence or control output commands or instructions to an LCM . As described in more detail in Section B below and in conjunction with the LCM may receive input from a UIM via the network to control output to a LED driver . As described in more details in Section C below and in conjunction with the CSP may used to configure the logic function and operation of the UIM in controlling and managing the lighting network via the LCMs .

The configuration software package CSP may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. In some embodiments any of the functionality operations or logic of the UIM LCM LED Driver and or LED described herein may be supported by configured via performed by or deployed on a computing device . In other embodiments any portion of the UIM LCM LED Driver and or LED may include or comprise any portion of the computing device described below.

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as the CSP or portion thereof. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the CSP . Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device . Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD such as KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices such as computing devices and connected to the computing device for example via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

A computing device of the sort depicted in typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. For example in one embodiment the computer is a Treo 180 270 1060 600 or 650 smart phone manufactured by Palm Inc. In this embodiment the Treo smart phone is operated under the control of the PalmOS operating system and includes a stylus input device as well as a five way navigator device. Moreover the computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone any other computer or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.

Referring now to an embodiment of a User Interface Module UIM is depicted. In brief overview the UIM may be used to control one of more LED control modules A B. The UIM may have one or more types of data inputs such as a digital input analog input internet input and computer interface input . The UIM may be electrically powered through a power supply port and may have one or more types of data output ports such as a wireless RF network port and a wired network port . In brief lighting control instructions or rules may be defined and selected in the CSP and then downloaded and programmed into the UIM via computer interface . The UIM relays the lighting control instructions to one or more LCMs existing within the lighting network . The UIM may have an electronically recognized unique address which distinguishes it from similar UIMs within a lighting network or in close proximity to a lighting network. Communication between the UIM and one or more LCMs may be via a wired network or wireless network. The instructions transmitted from the UIM to the LCM operationally program the LCM according to a desired lighting control scheme. After receiving instructions from the UIM the one or more LCMs A B may operate independently or in concert as defined in the provided instruction set to control one or more LED drivers connected to the LCMs . The LED drivers then provide electrical current to attached LEDs to control their light output.

In overview the UIM may include an electronic device designed constructed or adapted to receive data and output electronic signals in response to the received data. The UIM may include any preprogrammed instructions or rules associated with the received data. In some cases the UIM may be programmable. The various data interfaces and may be used to adapt or operationally program the UIM to execute specific lighting control tasks. For example executable code or instructions may be programmed into the UIM using the CSP and computer interface port . Data received from ports and may affect the operational results of the executable code and change the electronic signals output to the LED drivers at ports and .

In some embodiments the UIM may include a reduced instruction set computer RISC programmable logic controller PLC microprocessor microcontroller MCU application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP or a combination of these hardware components. Any one of these components or combination thereof may serve as a central processor or central controller for the UIM. The central processor or controller may be adapted to receive and execute computer code such as C C RISC instruction sets Basic assembly language programming language for microcontrollers Java or vendor proprietary machine language code. The UIM may further include peripherals such as analog to digital converters ADC digital to analog converters DAC various types of memory such as RAM ROM DRAM SRAM EPROM EEPROM Flash Memory or Cache and various types of serial communications interfaces such as inter integrated circuit I2C or serial peripheral interface SPI bus. In various embodiments the UIM is electrically powered through a power port with a local power supply. The UIM further includes one or more interface ports e.g. computer interface port digital input port analog input port and internet port and one or more output ports e.g. a radio frequency port and network port .

In other embodiments the UIM may be a computing device such as a personal computer or a laptop. The configuration software package may then be executed on the UIM in some embodiments and data transmitted to the LCMs through a network port such as a wireless connector.

In yet other embodiments the UIM may be comprised of fixed i.e. non software programmable electronic circuitry. For example the UIM may comprise any combination of TTL Transistor Transistor Logic logic chips resistors capacitors potentiometers field effect transistors FETs transistors switches jumpers and op amp chips mounted on a printed circuit board PCB . In these embodiments functionality of the UIM may be reprogrammed by changing circuit elements.

In various embodiments the UIM may be small in size measuring less than 10 cm along any edge. The UIM may be constructed on a small custom printed circuit Board PCB and enclosed in an electronic housing. The housing may provide shielding from electromagnetic interference EMI and provide a panel for data port connections. In other embodiments the UIM may be designed and constructed as any type and form of appliance any type and form of peripheral such as a USB device or in any form factor of a computing device or portion thereof such as a card. As those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate the form of the UIM may be designed and constructed for many environments and have a size and form factor in accordance with such environments.

Computer interface port may be used to program the UIM s internal processor. The port may include a single or multiwire connection adapted to support communications between an external processor such as a personal computer laptop computer or any portable computing device adapted to run the configuration software package and the UIM s internal processor or electronics. The external computer may be one that supports any of the following operating systems Windows Mac OS Unix and Linux. Serial or parallel communication protocols may be employed over port . The communications protocols employed over port may include without limitation RS 232 RS 485 modbus Ethernet IEEE 802.3 USB SCSI FireWire ATM TCP UDP ZigBee Bluetooth and AppleTalk. In other embodiments computer interface port may be a wireless port supporting e.g. IEEE 802.11 wireless communication protocols or Bluetooth technology. In yet another embodiment the computer interface may include any type and form of network interface or Network Interface Card for communicating with a computing device over a network .

As shown in power is supplied to the UIM through power supply port . Electronic power delivered to the UIM may be in the form of alternating voltage and current e.g. VAC 24 VAC or 120 VAC or in the form of direct voltage and current e.g. 5 VDC 9 VDC 12 VDC or 24 VDC. The power may be provided from a wall mounted power supply or from existing facility supplies e.g. 120 VAC. In various embodiments the power supply chord may be hard wired to the UIM or may be removably attached via a power jack to the LCM. In alternative embodiments power may be provided by a battery which may be mounted external to the LCM or incorporated into the LCM unit.

In various embodiments the UIM includes one or more digital ports . The digital ports may be adapted to receive various digital signals such as TTL CMOS and ECL emitter coupled logic signals which may be representative of the state of an external element or condition. In some embodiments the input impedance of the digital ports is high greater than about 1 000 ohms so that low current signals may be detected. In other embodiments where high speed digital signals are input to the UIM the input impedance at the digital port may be low e.g. less than about 100 ohms. Field effect transistors FETs bipolar junction transistors BJTs logic chips or digital to analog converters DACs may be employed as signal receiving circuit elements at the digital input ports. Voltages appearing on the digital ports may range from about 5 volts to about 24 volts in various embodiments.

Signals applied to the digital input ports may be derived from a variety of sources including but not limited to a pulse width modulation PWM source toggle switches jumper pins sensors with digital output a computer another UIM an ASIC or an LED control module . In some embodiments the logic level of one or more digital ports may determine the manner in which code programmed into the UIM s controller is executed. For example a logic level of 1 appearing at a particular digital input port may initiate the execution of a subroutine within the controller s code. In additional embodiments the logic level appearing at a port may be in effect passed to an LCM. For example a PWM signal applied to a digital port may be relayed to an LCM to control the intensity of an LED. The logic level of the digital ports may be monitored continuously by the UIM s controller or monitored only upon conditions established by executable code within the controller. For example the signal level of one digital port may only be sampled pending the status of a signal level at another digital port or analog port. In some embodiments the logic level of one or more ports may be set manually via toggle switches or jumper pins.

In various embodiments the UIM includes one or more analog ports . The analog inputs are useful for monitoring continuously varying state conditions e.g. environmental temperature humidity pressure wind speed wind direction ambient light level motion speed proximity fluid flow and acoustic amplitude. Analog signals from sensors adapted to monitor such continuously varying conditions may be applied to one or more of the UIM s analog ports . In additional embodiments user supplied control signals e.g. a 0 10 V control signal or a control signal derived from a conventional light dimmer may be applied to the analog input ports. Analog ports with low impedance e.g. less than about 100 ohms may be included in the UIM for high speed signals and ports with high impedance greater than about 1 000 ohms may be included for low level signals.

Operational amplifiers op amps may be employed as signal receiving circuit elements for the analog ports . The signal level of the analog ports may be monitored continuously by the UIM s controller or monitored only upon conditions established by executable code within the controller. In some embodiments the signal level appearing on an analog port may be in effect passed by the UIM s controller to an LED control module. For example the percentage of relative humidity may be monitored by an electronic sensor and its output applied at an analog port and relayed to an LCM to control the blue intensity component of a yellow blue LED lighting combination. In additional embodiments the signal level appearing at an analog port may trigger as in a threshold detection application the execution of a subroutine within the controller s code. For example a sensed temperature in excess of a predefined level may initiate the execution and transmission of a section of controller code which causes flashing of red LEDs.

The UIM may include an Internet port adapted for communication with any type and form of device via the Internet. These devices may exist within a personal area network PAN local area network LAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN or the Internet. Examples of data that may be received by the UIM through the internet port include but are not limited to room occupancy local weather conditions remote weather conditions traffic flow metropolitan power flow Stock Exchange information number of website hits and rate of online orders. The Internet port may be a wired or wireless Ethernet port adapted to support any of a variety of network or Interface protocols. In some embodiments the Internet port may include any type and form of Network Interface Card for communicating on a network . The Internet port may include or interface to a network stack such as a TCP IP transport control protocol Internet protocol stack.

The UIM may include any type and form of address or addressing scheme for identifying or communicating with or from the UIM . An electronically recognized address may be pre assigned to the UIM or dynamically configured. In some embodiments the address may be hard wired during manufacture of the UIM. In other embodiments the address may be set upon installation using a dual in line package DIP switch incorporated into the UIM. In other embodiments the UIM s address may be set by a lighting network system administrator accessing address configuration via ports or . In yet other embodiments the UIM s address may be dynamically configured via dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP . In one embodiment the address is an Internet Protocol IP address. In other embodiments the address is a Media Access Control MAC address. In some embodiments the address is an Ethernet Protocol address. In yet one embodiment the scheme or encoding of the address or any portion thereof may identify the manufacturer of the UIM or any functionality of the UIM.

In various embodiments the UIM may include one or more radio frequency RF wireless network ports and or one or more wired network ports . In various embodiments the ports and are used for bidirectional communication between the UIM and one or more LCMs A N. In some embodiments the UIMs and LCMs communicate via wireless RF signals. Communications protocols used between the UIM and LCMs may be any of a variety of established Internet or industry protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11 or may be a proprietary protocol developed by the manufacturer. In one embodiment the ports may include commercial off the shelf Ethernet port hardware. In other embodiments the ports may include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs designed to support a selected communication protocol.

Communication between the UIM and LCM may be secure encrypted or authenticated in either direction or in both directions. In some embodiments the LCM only recognizes or acknowledges data transmitted by a pre specified UIM. For example a unique product identity code may be assigned to each UIM by the manufacturer and this unique code may accompany each data transmission from the UIM to the LCMs. The LCMs programmed to accept data accompanied by the unique code may then authenticate the data transmission and process the instructions issued by the UIM. Such authentication would prevent other nearby UIMs from inadvertently seizing control of the LCMs. The two way communication between the UIM and LCM may then be used to configure the one or more LCMs on the lighting network for desired lighting operations or to relay real time commands such as changes in states at the UIM s digital analog or Internet interface ports from the UIM to one or more LCM s.

In operation the UIM may be installed in some embodiments at a location along with one or more LCMs A B. The LCMs are located within RF range of the UIM or are electronically connected to the UIM via wires connecting ports on the UIM to ports A on the LCMs. Attached to each LCM is one or more LED drivers and one or more LED lighting assemblies . Any desired sensed or control signals digital and analog are connected to data ports and . Optionally an internet connection is established at port . Once installed the UIM is powered on through port . Desired lighting instructions or rules in the form of executable code are then downloaded to the UIM s internal processor via ports or . The executable code may provide for monitoring and incorporation of data appearing at data ports and . For example weather conditions may be monitored over the internet port and audio signals may be monitored over analog port and these inputs reflected in data output from the UIM s processor. The code is executed in the UIM and results are transmitted as instructions to the LCMs A N in the lighting network . Each LCM then executes the received instructions to control lighting within its lighting group . The instructions received by the LCMs may affect one or more of several lighting parameters e.g. lighting intensity lighting color rate of change of lighting intensity rate of change of lighting color rate of repetitive change in lighting color and rate of repetitive change in lighting intensity. In this manner dynamic visual lighting displays can be created and readily modified.

In operation the UIM may provide various interfaces that may be configured to enable specific LED lighting tasks which are executed over the lighting network . These tasks may be preset by an OEM customer or may be set upon installation of the UIM LCM and LED devices. Interfaces to the UIM may be analog or digital.

In some embodiments an analog interface may include an on off switch a potentiometer a light sensor a proximity sensor a temperature sensor an adjustable or constant voltage or a conventional SCR type dimmer switch such as those readily available off the shelf at most large retailers e.g. Home Depot Lowes etc. In various embodiments the analog interface may trigger an event within the UIM such that rules may be executed to produce a desired lighting effect. By way of example upon receiving a temperature input corresponding to 50 degrees C. on or more LCMs may signal an increase in LED current output to 80 intensity. In another example upon engaging a conventional toggle switch on or more LCMs may signal an increase in LED current with a linear fade up to 100 over 3 seconds. In another example a UIM may be configured to receive a 0 V to 10 V analog input such that a 1 V input produces an LED light output of 0 and a 9 V input yields a light output of 100 with any intervening voltage producing a linearly proportional light output. Additionally in this example for voltages greater than 9 V one or more LCMs may provide various PWM outputs to be engaged each PWM output controlling an LED driver operatively communicating with different color LEDs e.g. red green blue and the LEDs may strobe and flash to create a lightening effect of varying intensity and on off duration. Another example mode of operation may include sequencing multiple LCM s respective outputs on and off with various dimming curves such that a light show may be created within a lighting space including configurations such as light color and or intensity chasing effects.

In other modes of operation digital inputs to the UIM may affect various LED lighting dynamics. The UIM may be connected to a local area network LAN having Internet access and may have an IP address e.g. static or assigned via dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP . The UIM may receive digital data through the network e.g. the UIM may be configured to receive internet data from its manufacturer s servers or to receive local temperature data. By way of example when the received temperature signal corresponds to 20 C or colder an LCM activates a blue LED and when the temperature data indicates 40 C or hotter the LCM activates a red LED and any temperature in between shall be a mixture or graduated shade between blue and red. In some embodiments a UIM may be assigned to control an LCM having three PWM signal outputs controlling light out put from one or more red green and blue LEDs. In this embodiment color mixing is enabled by controlling the PWM signals delivered to each of the three LEDs. In some embodiments digital interfaces may be serial or parallel network type interfaces.

Although a UIM is shown with specific ports in other embodiments may have more or less ports to the UIM as well as provide multiple ports of any kind. For example another embodiment of the UIM may exclude a network port and include additional analog input ports and additional digital input ports . In other embodiments the UIM may provide multiple RF wireless ports . In yet other embodiments one wireless network port may be adapted to provide all the functionality of ports and such that these four ports are replaced by a single network interface port. In various embodiments the interface ports on the UIM may be configured and recognized via software or firmware loaded onto the UIM s internal processor or controller. For example a UIM may be configured with two terminal blocks of which an end user may connect a temperature sensor proximity sensor light sensor on off switch PWM signal etc. and the UIM may be configured via the CSP in such a way that types of signal inputs are known prior to their connection.

Although described as input and output ports data ports on the UIM may be adapted constructed or designed to be bidirectional. For example the computer interface port the digital ports the analog ports the Internet port the RF port and network port may be adapted to transmit and receive data. To receive data through any UIM port in various embodiments the UIM provides for the port and its associated internal electronics to change their state from transmit mode to listen mode. In listen mode any signal appearing on the port may be directed to the UIM s processor or to a peripheral data storage buffer or cache for subsequent processing.

Although programming of the UIM s internal processor or internal electronics has been described as enacted over computer interface port in various embodiments programming of the UIM s internal processor may also occur via the Internet port . For example new application software such as software developed by the UIM manufacturer may be downloaded over the Internet through port and programmed into the UIM s processor. In this manner any improvements to the operation of the lighting network system developed by the manufacturer may be delivered to the customer post installation without the need to modify or exchange installed hardware.

Advantages of the UIM include its ease of configurability and reconfigurability functional versatility low cost and form factor. In embodiments where the UIM is configurable via the computer software package CSP and downloaded firmware new lighting schemes and displays may be altered simply by bringing a laptop computer within range of the UIM and wirelessly transferring data from the computer to the UIM. This obviates the need for removal reworking and reinstallation of a light controlling device. Since lighting schemes can be selected through a computer interface and computer programming the UIM enables high versatility in adapting any installed lighting elements to a desired or custom lighting display. In various aspects the UIM provides a standardization of lighting control for various lighting elements. Since the UIM does not require custom design for each lighting installation costs associated with custom electronic manufacture and custom installations can be eliminated reducing the overall cost of ownership of the lighting system. In some embodiments a small sized UIM enables the UIM to be mounted in a hidden location and easily installed at location by a system engineer contractor or home user.

Referring now to an embodiment of the LED control module LCM A is depicted. In brief overview the LCM may be used to control one or more LED drivers A which in turn control the amount of current and or power delivered to one or more LEDs. The LCM provides means for interfacing digital controls to LED lighting assemblies such as simple or dumb LED source . The LCM may be electrically powered through a power supply port A which provides voltage and current to enable operation of the LCM. The LCM may have a wireless RF network port A and a wired network port A through which lighting instructions or rules may be received. The LCM may be provided with an electronically recognizable address A which may be unique to an LCM or common to a group of LCMs. The LCM may further have multiple signal output ports A which for example may provide pulse width modulation PWM signals to one or more LED drivers. An analog output port A may provide a continuously variable signal e.g. 0 10 V useful for controlling an LED driver A. The LCM may also have a high current or power field effect transistor FET port A which may directly drive an LED assembly A without the use of an intervening LED driver A.

The LCM A may comprise software hardware or any combination of hardware and software. In various embodiments the LCM may include a central processor such as a reduced instruction set computer RISC programmable logic controller PLC microprocessor microcontroller MCU application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP or a combination of these hardware components. Any one of these components or combination thereof may serve as a central processor or central controller for the LCM. The central processor or controller may be adapted to receive and execute computer code such as C C RISC instruction sets Basic Assembly Java or vendor proprietary machine language code. The LCM may further include peripherals such as analog to digital converters ADC digital to analog converters DAC various types of memory such as RAM ROM DRAM SRAM EPROM EEPROM Flash Memory or Cache and various types of serial communications interfaces such as inter integrated circuit IC or serial peripheral interface SPI bus. The LCM may be assembled on a printed circuit board PCB using a variety of off the shelf IC chips or assembled on a PCB using several custom designed ASICs. The LCM may have a unique lighting network address A so that it may be recognized and independently controlled by a UIM . In other embodiments the LCM may include fixed electronic circuitry and not adapted to receive external data input during operation.

The physical size of the LCM is in various embodiments smaller than about 10 cm as measured along any edge of the device. In certain embodiments the LCM is small enough to be incorporated into an LED lighting assembly. In other embodiments the LCM is a small handheld unit which is mounted in close proximity to one or more LED drivers . In additional embodiments one or more LED drivers may be incorporated into a packaged unit including one or more LCMs. For embodiments where the LCM is operable via wireless communications an antenna may be incorporated into the LCM housing and the housing would be substantially transparent to the wireless transmissions. As those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate the form of the LCM may be designed and constructed for many environments and have a size and form factor in accordance with such environments.

Electrical power may be provided to the LCM through port A. Power supplied to this port may include but not be limited to alternating voltage and current e.g. 12 VAC 24 VAC or 120 VAC or direct voltage and current e.g. 5 VDC 9 VDC 12 VDC or 24 VDC. The power may be provided from a wall mounted power supply or from existing facility supplies e.g. 120 VAC. In various embodiments the power supply chord may be hard wired to the LCM or may be removably attached via a power jack to the LCM. In alternative embodiments power may be provided by a battery which may be mounted external to the LCM or incorporated into the LCM unit.

The LCM may be adapted to receive and transmit any type and form of digital data through a wireless RF network port A and a wired network port A. Circuit elements at these ports may include but not be limited to such peripherals as analog to digital converters ADC digital to analog converters DAC application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP any of a variety of Ethernet port hardware or a combination of these hardware components. The data received at the network ports A and A may be from a UIM from a personal computer or from another device configured to communicate with the LCM. Types of communications and protocols supported at these ports may include RS 232 RS 485 Ethernet 10 100 Ethernet 10 100 1000 TCP IP UDP IP IEEE 802.3 IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth and ZigBee.

In some embodiments each LCM A is assigned a device address A N which permits independent control of multiple LCMs on a lighting network . The address may be programmed into the LCM during manufacture or it may be reconfigurable and established during installation. In some embodiments multiple LCMs may have identical addresses so that they may be controlled in concert. In yet other embodiments the LCMs address may be dynamically configured via dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP . For example the LCM may receive an address from the UIM which in some embodiments may act as the DHCP. In one embodiment the address of the LCM is an Internet Protocol IP address. In other embodiments the address is a Media Access Control MAC address. In some embodiments the address is an Ethernet Protocol address. In yet one embodiment the scheme or encoding of the address or any portion thereof may identify the manufacturer of the LCM or any functionality of the LCM.

One or more digital output ports A may be included with the LCM. Digital signals supported at the output ports A may include CMOS ECL and TTL signals. The output electronics for these ports may include high impedance FETs or low impedance digital line drivers. Types of signals output by the ports A may further include PWM signals. The PWM signal may comprise a square wave signal having a variable duty cycle as well as a variable frequency. Increases or decreases in the duty cycle can be used to increase or decrease light output from LEDs. In various embodiments one of the output ports A may drive one or more LED drivers A and as many as 50. In other embodiments involving color mixing individual ports A can be assigned to LEDs having distinct colors e.g. red amber green and blue.

In various embodiments the PWM output from any of the ports A may also be programmed for various frequencies depending on the application. For example a slow 100 Hz frequency which avoids issues related to FCC EMI regulations may be employed for general lighting applications whereas for a machine vision application higher frequencies may be required since slow frequencies may produce undesirable aliasing effects in high speed cameras used for such applications.

The LCM may have one or more analog output ports A. These ports may include a current buffer or voltage follower op amp circuit element which provides output voltages ranging from about 24 VDC to 24 VDC. The analog output port may be used to drive one or more LED drivers in some embodiments as many as 50 LED drivers. The analog output port may provide a voltage reference signal e.g. 0 10 VDC useful for some commercial off the shelf LED drivers. For example a signal level of 0 VDC output from the LCM to an LED driver may cause the LED light output to be turned off i.e. 0 a signal level of 10 VDC may cause the LED light output to be turned fully on i.e. 100 and any value between 0 VDC and 10 VDC may cause a corresponding linear adjustment of the LED light output.

A power FET port A may be included in the LCM A. A circuit element for this port may include a power MOSFET which can supply output current levels in excess of 100 amps. The power FET port may be used to directly drive one or more LED assemblies A bypassing the LED driver A. In some embodiments the port A may simply be used to turn one or more LEDs on and off. In other embodiments the signal at port A may be modulated rapidly greater than about 60 Hz providing a pulse width modulation signal capable of dimming the light output from one or more LED assemblies.

In operation the LCM provides a means for interfacing digital or digital and analog controls to common passive or dumb LED fixtures. The LCM A may receive lighting instructions or rules from one or more UTMs located near the LCM or connected to the LCM via the wired network port A. The LCM processes the instructions and outputs control signals through some or all of its output ports A A and A to operate one or more LED drivers A and LED lighting assemblies A. In some embodiments the LCM may be incorporated into one LED lighting assembly A the assembly designated as a smart LED assembly and one or more dumb LED assemblies may be operatively connected so that their action mimics the action of the smart assembly. In some embodiments the control signals are produced by the LCM s internal processor according to a set of instructions or rules transmitted to the LCM by the UIM . For example the instructions may be to continuously vary duty cycles synchronously on three square wave signals applied to each of three ports A where each of these signals is operatively applied to LED assemblies through the LED driver A such that one port A activates a red LED assembly one a green LED assembly and one a blue LED assembly. The square wave signals may be TTL type signals having a voltage swing from about 0 VDC to about 5 VDC in some embodiments. The net result of such an instruction set would be to maintain a constant illumination color while continuously varying illumination intensity. In another embodiment the instructions may be to continuously vary duty cycles asynchronously on three square wave signals applied to each of three ports A. The net result of such an instruction set may be to continuously vary both illumination color and intensity. In yet other embodiments instructions or rules may be created in real time at the UIM in response to pre selected events or conditions and transmitted to the LCMs over the lighting network so that real time event tracking can be reflected in light output from the LED assemblies. For example the UIM may track temperature wind speed or ambient noise level through its analog input ports process the data internally in real time and continuously transmit new instruction sets to the LCM as these environmental parameters change.

In operation the FET output port A may be used in some embodiments to enable and disable power applied to one or more LED drivers or one or more LED lighting assemblies. This use of the FET port may override all other lighting commands to enable or disable lighting. Similarly in operation the analog output port A may be used to provide graduated scaling of light output intensity from the LEDs. For example a 1 VDC output from port A may cause a reduction in light output to 10 of maximum output for all LEDs controlled by the LCM A whereas a 9 VDC output from port A may cause an increase in LED lighting intensity to 90 of maximum output. In operation controlling signals output from ports A A and A may be applied to one or more LED drivers simultaneously or sequentially to obtain a desired lighting display.

Although the LCM A in is shown with a number of input and output ports the LCM may be constructed configured or designed with any number of the same and or different input and or output ports. For example the LCM could include only one wireless network port A no wired network port and one wireless network output port not shown wherein the wireless network output port communicates to wireless networked LED drivers. In other embodiments the LCM may include one or more digital input ports not shown and one or more analog input ports not shown which would provide a means for feeding back signals from one or more LED drivers or LED lighting assemblies. For example thermal sensing e.g. via a thermistor LED intensity sensing e.g. via a photodiode and color sensing e.g. via multiple photodiodes elements located in an LED lighting assembly may be configured to provide temperature and light output information back to the LCM so that overheating conditions and lighting failure conditions can be detected and acted upon. Corrective actions may include disabling or reducing current delivered to one or more LEDs adjusting the LEDs color mixing ratio or transmitting an error notification back to the UIM in the event of complete LED failure. The LCM A may further include status indication elements such as LED status lights and a liquid crystal display LCD . These elements may provide convenient visual information to maintenance personnel and indicate successful operation of the LCM and attached LED circuitry or indicate types of errors within the local lighting network.

Although depicts a lighting network having a separate UIM which communicates with one or more LCMs in another embodiment all the functionality of the UIM may be incorporated into one or more LCMs. In such embodiments a separate UIM may be unnecessary. For example referring to and all the functionality of UIM may be incorporated into LCM B and UIM eliminated from the network. In this embodiment the lighting group B may be designated as a parent group and the other groups A C N designated as children of the parent. Instructions or rules established externally to the lighting network e.g. via the CSP may be downloaded to the parent group s LCM B and then distributed over the network to offspring lighting groups. In some versions of this embodiment the CSP is operable on a laptop computer equipped with a wireless Ethernet port. All or any of the lighting groups may be reprogrammed by executing the CSP selecting new lighting rules bringing the laptop within range of the parent LCM B and downloading the new instructions.

In yet another embodiment each of the LCMs A B may include all the functionality of a UIM or any portion thereof and the control of lighting may be distributed over the network . For example LCM A may sense humidity B may sense wind speed and N may sense temperature. The information gathered by each LCM may be shared across the network and affect operation of each LCM. In this embodiment new rules or instructions established externally may be downloaded to any one of the LCMs and the receiving LCM would then distribute the new rules across the network.

Advantages of the LCM include its ease of configurability and reconfigurability functional versatility low cost and form factor. In embodiments where the LCM is configurable via the computer software package CSP and downloaded firmware new lighting schemes and displays can be altered simply by bringing a laptop computer within range of the UIM and wirelessly transferring data from the computer to one or more UTMs existing within the lighting network. Data is then transferred from the one or more UTMs to each LCM within the network. This obviates the need for removal reworking and reinstallation of any light controlling device. Since lighting schemes can be selected through a computer interface and computer programming the LCM enables high versatility in adapting any installed lighting elements to a desired or custom lighting display. In various aspects the LCM provides a standardization of lighting control for various lighting elements. Since the LCM does not required custom design for each lighting installation costs associated with custom electronic manufacture and custom installations can be eliminated reducing the overall cost of ownership of the lighting system. In some embodiments the potentially small size of the LCM enables it to be mounted in a hidden location and easily installed at location by a system engineer contractor or home user. In some embodiments the LCM may be incorporated into an LED lighting assembly by the manufacturer eliminating the need for any additional installation tasks and time related to the LCM.

Referring now to an embodiment of the configuration software package is depicted. As Lighting OEMs are typically not electronic designers nor are they software designers the CSP provides a configuration mechanism and means for easily configuring advanced lighting control management and features into the lighting network . In brief overview the CSP may include a computing device or PC personal computer based configuration tool that may be used to simply program the system with one or more rules such that dependent on the desired level of effect or control a lighting OEM may program the lighting network system without any prior knowledge of programming or without the need of an expensive integrated control system. The configuration tool may include a graphical user interface for configuring rules to be deployed or exported as firmware in the UIM for controlling or managing the lighting network .

In one embodiment the configuration tool includes any type and form of graphical modeling tool for creating modifying editing or otherwise configuring a representation of a lighting network . In some embodiments the configuration tool includes any type and form of block modeling tool. In other embodiments the configuration tool includes a user interface and system for creating generating or otherwise configuring elements on a screen and linking or forming relationships between elements such as found in a network diagram or system architecture diagram.

The configuration tool of the CSP includes any type and form of user interface. In one embodiment the configuration tool comprises any type and form of command line interface. In various embodiments the configuration tool comprises any type and form of graphical user interfaces. The graphical user interfaces may include any arrangement and combination of graphical user interface elements including menus drop down lists choose lists trees drag and drop elements etc. In some embodiments the configuration tool includes any type and form of setup configuration or installation wizards to guide a user step by step through a setup configuration or installation of a lighting network or any component thereof such as a UIM .

In some embodiments the CSP is used to configure a UIM or the lighting network and not to operate a UIM or a portion of the lighting network. Therefore in these embodiments once the CSP configures each UIM on the network the CSP may no longer be required and the UIM and linked LCMs will function together as predefined by the CSP. In other embodiments the CSP may used during operation of the UIM or lighting network to dynamically change the configuration or logic of the UIM on the fly or on an as needed or ad hoc basis. In one embodiment the CSP may be used as a testing tool for any UIM or any portion of the lighting network to test the functionality logic or operations to what may be expected.

The configuration tool of the CSP may include any of the following features such as 1 drag and drop components UIM LCM and component functionality 2 drag and drop pre created programs 3 drag and drop analog and digital inputs 4 create rules with no complex programming and 5 create relationships no complex programming. Using drag and drop components and pre defined and configurable component functionality a user such as an OEM customer may fully define the lighting system using setup guides that walk the user through the set up process. Through Drag and Drop icons the user selects a defined quantity of LCMs and configures each address for functionality. Via the configuration tool these user may review detailed features of a specific LCM while also being able to review the overall system allowing the creation of relationships between these drag and drop components such as relationships between the LCMs and UIMs. In some cases in order to link a drag and drop a component for configuring an LCM or UIM an address such as a unique address of the LCM or UIM must be associated with the drag and drop component.

In some embodiments the configuration tool provides a user interface for configuring one or more rules for a UIM in controlling or managing the lighting network . A rule may include any type and form of logic for specifying defining or otherwise configuring the behavior action command or instructions to be performed by the UIM and or LCM or any other portion of a lighting network in response to any type and form of input. In some embodiments a rule triggers generates or otherwise provides an event based on an input. The input may include any type of analog or digital information or data received via any port of the UIM and or LCM. For example the input may include data from one or more sensors interfaced to the UIM. The output or event may include any type and form of directives commands or instructions to the LCM and or LED driver. For example the output may include instructions to change the lighting affect in any manner such as triggering a sequence of changes to the color of lights in any sequence or combination. In some embodiments the rules may cause the lighting control and affects thereof to have a relationship with or correspond to input from the external environment. For example the weather and or time of day input or any changes thereof to the UIM may case a rule to trigger a change in the lighting via the LCM in a configured or desired manner.

The configuration tool may comprise any type and form of business rules logic operations or functionality to provide any form of executable instructions to be created generated or otherwise provided for use by a UIM . In some embodiments the set of executable instructions used by the UIM may be referred to as firmware . The executable instructions or firmware may include any type and form of source code object code libraries APIs header files data files and configuration files in accordance with the operation of the UIM. These programmed executable instructions may be stored in any type and form of memory of the UIM such as read only memory permanent or semi permanent memory.

The configuration tool may include a code generation engine for generating code or firmware for the UIM based on the configuration specified by a user via the user interface. The configuration tool may generate the code representing the configuration using any type and form of instruction set such as C C RISC instruction sets Basic assembly language programming language for microcontrollers Java or any vendor proprietary machine language code. The code generation engine may generate source code and then compile the source code into executable form. The configuration tool may include any type and form of download or export functionality to install or otherwise provide the firmware to the UIM such as via interface .

By way of example some of the features of the configurability of the CSP are discussed below. It should be noted that in order to further ease configuration most of the features as noted below may be asked in a systematic order via a wizard setup guide or would be available via drop down menus. Examples of a wizard setup guide will follow in discussions of .

When configuring a specific LCM the user interface of the configuration tool may include user interface elements providing configurable to 1 enable or disable each output of the LCM 2 select or specify a frequency of enabled PWM output and 3 select or specify a voltage range of enabled analog output. The configuration tool may include drag and drop icons to represent LED Drivers connected to or to be connected to the LCM under configuration. In some embodiments the configuration tool provides drag and drop icons to represent LEDs connected to or to be connected to the LED drivers. Although generally discussed herein as drag and drop icons any type and form of graphical user interface elements may be used to represent LCMs LED drivers and LEDs using the configuration tool.

Via the user interface of the configuration tool a user may view the following types of data and relationships in connection with an LCM 1 which UIM module is this particular LCM linked to 2 which LCM modules are similar in configuration 3 which LCM modules are connected to the same UIM modules. In some embodiments the user may view the address of an LCM via the configuration tool and change or modify this address. The configuration tool may allow the user to assemble LEDs and LED drivers such that the overall function as configured may be simulated prior to exporting code to the UIM. When configuring a specific UIM the user interface of the configuration tool may provide user interface elements for the assignment of LCMs to the specific UIM. In some embodiments this assignment of LCMs to UIMs may be done graphically via a linking element. In other embodiments the assignment of LCMs to UIMs may be performed by the user via selection from a choose list or drop down list of via text or other entry. The configuration tool may provide a user interface to define any of the inputs of the UIMs. In some embodiments the inputs may be available as drag and drop icons for example if a temperature sensor is selected simply drag in a temperature sensor and connect. The configuration tool may provide a user interface to define the function of an LCM once the UIM receives an input such as via one or more rules . The configuration tool allows a user to view configure or change the address of this particular UIM and also see when the address may have been last updated.

In some embodiments once the function operating and relationship parameters are defined for the UIM in advance via the CSP the UIM will function or act as an embedded system with the purpose of operating as defined. In addition and in one embodiment any LCM assigned to the UIM will be notified via the LCM s address of its purpose and commands. For example upon power up of the UIM and applicable LCMs the UIM may notify all LCMs that are assigned thereto of the LCM s respective configuration. If the LCM loose power the LCMs may hold the previous state until connection is reestablished. If the LCM fails to connect to a UIM the UIM may indicate an error code and continue to operate normally less the missing component.

Once the overall system definition has been completed the possible lighting effects are endless. A user may create any combination of configurations for UIMs and LCMs for a lighting network with any type and form of rules that may be supported by the system. The rules provides any desired lighting effects based on inputs available to the UIM and output control provided by the LCM and LED drivers. While the interface is a relative simple GUI some users may prefer templates or pre created configuration for getting started. In some embodiments the configuration tool provides drag and drop pre created pre defined or otherwise predetermined programs or configurations. A user may drag and drop via the configuration tool a program similar to that of which is trying to be accomplished. In addition to drag and drop the CSP will attempt to apply the sequence to the Lighting Network as defined prompting the user for input and by analyzing the devices present. For example a user may select a pre created program for Chasing Lights . At that point the CSP may prompt the user via a survey to select options regarding the overall effect thus at the completion of the customer survey the Chasing Lights program also having recognized the quantity of LCMs will have created any desired or suitable program per the user requirements. The program may be further modified such as via tweaking of time values intensity values etc. . . .

As the UIM includes capability for various inputs whether sensor switch or data the configuration tool may be designed or constructed such that inputs may be dragged and dropped into the graphical user interface and assigned to the applicable UIM. Through this assignment the user may be informed of features available such as data that may be referenced and used accordingly in the associated programs. For example with an Internet digital input the user may have accessible weather data stock information sun rise times sun set times sports scores etc. Any of the Internet data may be queried or obtained via any network or Internet connected computing device such as a server available to the UIM. The configuration tool may provide the user with the option to select which of this data is relevant to the program or desired to use with the rules .

For example the UIM may have access via the Internet port any data and information on the local weather including temperature data such as the local high temperature for the day and the local low temperature for the day. In this case the user may select the local high and local low temperatures for the day as data input such that this data may be available in a field for configuration. The user may then create rules or a program such that this data is used as a variable for creating a lighting effect via the UIM and the lighting network. In some embodiments each UIM may have a defined number of potential inputs and that multiple inputs may be incorporated into the configuration of the UIM. For example when a switch connected to a UIM is engaged weather data may available as input to a rule . When a switch is disengaged the UIM may run a pre defined program.

In addition to defining the configuration of the UIM and LCM within a lighting network the configuration tool of the CSP provides a user interface for a user to create rules and relationships. For example a rule may be configuration of an IF statement whiles relationships being may be for example how an LCM at a first address interacts with the UIM of a second address. Rules may be configured via wizard configuration or may be configured via scripting depending on the experience of the user. In some embodiments a rule creates a definition or otherwise established a relationship that links the input on the UIM to the output of one or more LCMs. For example a rule may created that specified if the local high temperature for the day exceeds 70 F then set LCM at the first address to pink light . This pink light for example may have been defined earlier by the user via the configuration tool as the combination of 50 intensity of PWM output 1 and 75 intensity of PWM output 2 which in turn mixes blue and red to create pink.

Other rules may be created based on the variable input data available to the UIM. In addition rules may be created that are triggered by the input data into the UIM and perform a plurality of actions. For example a rule may specify if the local high temperature for the day exceeds 70 F then set LCM at a first address to pink light set LCM at a second address to blue light and LCM at a third address to yellow light hold this state for 2 seconds then run a lighting effects program identified as Chase 3. For example Chase 3 rule or program may have been defined through the wizard as a program that would start LCM 1 at TBD color then chance the color of LCM 1 to the color of LCM 3 the color of LCM 3 to LCM 2 the color of LCM 2 to LCM 1 and cycle over a period of 1 second.

The advantages of the CSP and configuration tool is the ability for pre set or predetermined designs and intelligent setup guides wizards to guide the user through the configuration process as well as making intelligent decisions as to what components of the setup may be automated and what components should be asked of the user. In some embodiments the configuration tool or CSP may have an advanced scripting mode which works well for more technology savvy users such that via a programming language script or command line commands configure any portion of the lighting network as desired.

Through the use of intelligent configuration menus the configuration tool of the CSP asks the user questions regarding the system configuration that lead to additional questions based on the user s responses. This type of menu configuration is demonstrated by example via the corresponding embodiments depicts in . Upon defining the system via the configuration menus the system as configured may be visually displayed on screen. The CSP may include any type and form of simulator or simulation tool for the user to simulate the system as well as change variables based on preference. In addition to the individual settings of each LCM and UIM the CSP may also display relationships and the rules that govern them.

Referring now to example embodiments of user interface of the configuration tool of the CSP are depicted. depicts an embodiment of a start screen of a configuration wizard for the CSP . The user may select a menu item to start the wizard and then select a start button to continue the wizard process. depicts an embodiment of a user interface of a step in configuring an LED control module. As show in the example wizard screen the user may specify the number of LCMs in the lighting network and whether or not the LCMs will be configured in the same manner. Furthermore the user may specify if an off the shelf LED driver will be used for controlling the LED source or if a customer LED driver will be used. The user may navigate back to the previous screen using the back button or continue with the wizard process via the next button.

Next at in this example configuration wizard the user may configure the communications portions of the LCM to select the type of network communications and to specify whether or not the LCMs response similarly or functional independently of each other. The user may select that the LCM communicates with the UIM via a wireless network or via RF. In some embodiments the user may select that the LCM communicates with the UIM via a wired network. In some cases the user selects the LCMs to function dependently to each other. In other cases the user selects the LCMs to function independently such that each may receive lighting commands and respond to such commands independently from another LCM.

At a next step in the wizard configuration process of the configuration tool the user may configure the UIM . In the example embodiment of the user interface depicted in the user may identify configure of select the number of UIMs to be deployed or used in the lighting network . The user may identify whether or not the UIM will be connected to online via an Internet port and how many interfaces may be connected to a single UIM. The user may select the Next to continue the process such as by configuring or specifying the address of the UIM via the user interface depicted in . In this user interface if the user identified a plurality of UIMs for the lighting network the user may specify addresses for each of the plurality of the UIMs via this screen. In other embodiments the user may select the Back button at any of the screens such as those depicted in to change previously configured elements.

Based on the number of user interfaces specified in the screen of for the UIM the user may specify the type of interface for the UIM. In the embodiment depicted in the user may select any type of interface available from a drop down or choose list such as selecting a motion sensor as shown in . If the user selected multiple interfaces for the UIM in the user may select or specify the UIM for each of the interfaces via the user interface of . The user may configure or specify the type of data and information available to the UIM by specifying and configuring analog digital or Internet inputs to the UIM.

Referring now to an embodiment of a step in the configuration process to create a rule for the UIM is specified. In this example screen the user configures a rule based on the type of sensor defined for an interface in a previous screen. In this case the user specifies a rule based on a motion sensor sensing motion and in response to this input delivering a fade light output up program to the LED source via the LED driver to 100 over 2 seconds and maintain 100 light output for 2 minutes. At the end of 2 minutes the fade light output down program is run to 0 until again receiving sensing motion input. The user may select which of the identified LCM modules for which to apply this rule. For example the user may select the LCMs by the configured address. depicts an embodiment of a screen for specifying another rule for the lighting network . In this embodiment the use specifies a rule based on the motion sensor interface of interface 1 sensing motion. In response to the input of a sensing motion detection by the interface the rule states to produce or trigger a strobe light output configuration for 10 minutes between 3 output and 100 output for each strobe lasting 0.1 seconds. The user may apply this second rule to any one or more of the LCMs .

Although show specific examples for a motion sensor embodiment of a UIM interface those ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate the user may specify a rule based on the type of interface and the data or information available from the interface. Furthermore the user may specify any type and form of lighting effect to occur or trigger in response to input or events from the interface. Additionally the user may specify a type of light color the intensity of light output and any temporal information for the length of the lighting effect.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface of the configuration tool for identifying completion of the setup wizard process is depicted. The user may select the Done button to complete the process. In other embodiments the user may select a Back button to review and or change any previous configuration or selections.

Once the user is satisfied with the configuration the user may select an export button of the configuration tool to download upload export or otherwise transmit the corresponding firmware or configuration updates to the UIM . In some embodiments the selection of the export button triggers a code generation process for the CSP to generate executable instructions or firmware corresponding to the completed configuration for the UIM. Upon completion of the generated code the CSP may download or provide the code to the UIM via interface .

Referring now to a flow diagram of an embodiment of steps of a method for configuring and executing user specified rules to control a lighting network is depicted. In a brief overview of method at step a user identifies via a configuration tool one or more inputs to an interface module for configuring a rule. At step the user specifies via the configuration tool one or more lighting effects to occur via one or more lighting control modules responsive to the user identified input. At step the configuration tool generates one or more user specified rules in a form to be executed via the interface module. At step the user interface receives or is provided the generated rules in executable form. At step the interface module receives data via one or more ports. At step the interface module detects receipt of the user identified input. At step the interface module executes the rule in response to the detection. At step the interface module triggers rule specified lighting effects.

In further details at step a user identifies via a configuration tool any type and format of one or more inputs to an interface module for configuring a rule. A user identified input may comprise any data type or a portion of a data stream. The input may include a specific value of a specific data type out of plurality of data types available on the interface module. The user may identify any input selected from a plurality of inputs available via any part or interface of the interface module. In some embodiments the user identifies a threshold value to be compared against a stream of values from a source such as a detector or a sensor. The user identified threshold value for the value from the sensor may be the input identified by the user to be used for configuring a rule. In some embodiments the user identifies a color of light as an input for configuring a rule. In a number of embodiments the user identifies a value corresponding to a brightness level as an input configuring a rule. In a number of embodiments the user identifies a source or a stream of data from a website or a webpage as an input for configuring a rule. In some embodiments the user identifies an analog or a digital value as an input for configuring a rule. In some embodiments the user identifies a data point as an input to be used for configuring a rule. Sometimes the user may identify a color a luminance value or a brightness value to be used as an input for configuring a rule.

In a variety of embodiments the user identifies a stream of data from a website as an input for configuring a rule. For example the stream of data identified may correspond to a weather information about a particular location. In some embodiments the user identifies a stream of data corresponding to a stock information from the stock market as an input for configuring a rule. In identifying the input the user may specify the port or interface of the interface module and or one or more data values received via the port or the interface. In some embodiments in identifying the input the user specifies a data stream from a plurality of streams of data inputs and further specify one or more specific data points within the selected stream. The user may identify any data or value to be received via any type and form of network interface to the interface module. In some embodiments the user identifies any portion of a network packet as an input. The user may identify or specify any part or a header of a network packet of any type and form of protocol. The user may identify from plurality of data streams traversing the interface module a data stream based on a unique identifier of the source of the data stream and further identify specific network packets or data to be used as inputs. In some embodiments the user identifies a voltage value such as a 0V or a 10V value as an user input for configuring a rule. In some embodiments the user identifies a value corresponding to a threshold value for a motion sensor as an input for configuring the rule. In many embodiments the user identifies a value corresponding to a threshold value for a temperature sensor as an input for configuring the rule. In some embodiments the user identifies a value corresponding to a threshold value for a timer as an input for configuring the rule.

At step the user via the configuration tool specifies any type and form of lighting effects for the rule to trigger responsive to the user identified inputs. The lighting effects may include any one or more of the following in any combination turning lights on or off introducing delay to turning light on or off or to any other lighting effect timing loops for managing a plurality of light sources color changes changes to temperature of one or more lights dimming fading of lights change of intensity brightness or wavelength pulsing of light flash of light and more. In some embodiments the user specifies via the configuration tool the intensity or wavelength of the light to be emitted in response to one or more user identified inputs. In many embodiments the user specifies the continuous light output or a pulsing of light output to be emitted in response to one or more user identified inputs. In various embodiments the user specifies via the configuration tool a number of colors of light to be emitted from a number of light sources in response to one or more user identified inputs. In some embodiments the user specifies a sequence of lights to be emitted such as for example a sequence to emit a green light followed by a red light followed by a yellow etc. In a number of embodiments the user specifies via the configuration tool a loop sequence assigning the order in which specific light sources will emit when the user identified input is encountered. In some embodiments the user specifies via the configuration tool the pulse duration for the pulses of light the light sources will emit in response to one or more user identified inputs. In many embodiments the user specifies the timing scheme for the synchronized output of a plurality of light sources. The timing scheme may specify duration of time for which each light source will emit in response to one or more user identified inputs. Sometimes the user may specify a first lighting effect to take place in response to a first user identified input and a second lighting effect to take place in response to a second user identified input. In some embodiments the user specifies a third and fourth lighting effects for the rule to trigger in response to a third user identified input. In many embodiments the user specifies a specific lighting effect for the rule to trigger in response to two user identified inputs. In some embodiments the user specifies a lighting effect requiring one or more controllers controlling plurality of light sources to turn the plurality of light sources on or off in a specific order. In many embodiments the rule may instruct one or more LCMs to implement one or more lighting effects via any number of light sources.

At step the configuration tool generates one or more user specified rules in a form of executable instructions to execute via the interface module or any component of the lighting network. In some embodiments the configuration tool generates any number of rules in any type and form of executable instructions such as an executable file application program library process script or service. In many embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of a source code. In some embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of a compiled code. In various embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of an executable file. The configuration tool may generate any number of rules in a form of a script. In some embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of a library of rules. In many embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of functions ready to be implemented. In some embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more rules in a form of an interpreted code such as java code or a java script. In a plurality of embodiments the configuration tool generates one or more user specified rules in a form of functions logic functions or procedures to execute the rules.

In some embodiments at step the configuration tool generates executable instructions for the user specified rule to represent a specific user identified input. In some embodiments the configuration tool generates a rule in a form of user executable instructions to represent a specific user specified lighting effect. The configuration tool may generate one or more of executable instructions of the user specified rule to be executed by one or more controllers of the LEDs such as an LCM . In some embodiments the configuration tool generates executable files comprising functions signals and instructions from components such as sensors or detectors algorithms or software circuitry or controllers used to operate or control any one of UIM LCM LED drivers and LEDs . Each of the executable files may be executed by one or more control modules such as LCM one or more LED drivers or one or more LED . In some embodiments the configuration tool generates a rule comprising an executable program or a code comprising steps commands instructions and data enabling a control module such as a LCM to implement trigger or execute each user specified lighting effect. In a plurality of embodiments the configuration tool generates a rule comprising an executable program or a code comprising steps commands instructions and data enabling a control module such as a LCM to implement trigger or execute each user identified input. The generated rules may comprise information specifying which LED sources will be utilized which LCM control modules will be utilized and when. The generated rules may be stored by the interface module for further use in case the user identifies same user inputs or same user specified lighting effects. The generated rules may be created or generated each time the user identifies new inputs or specifies new lighting effects.

At step the interface module receives or is provided the executable instructions comprising the user specified rule via any type and form of interface. The interface module may receive executable instructions comprising the user specified rule via any configuration file boot file uploaded or downloaded file file received via a network or from a file stored on the interface module. In some embodiments the interface module receives or is provided the executable instructions comprising one or more user specified rules from the configuration tool. In many embodiments the interface module receives or is provided the executable instructions comprising one or more user specified rules from a user s computer via a network . In some embodiments the interface module receives or is provided the executable instructions from configuration files stored on a network. In some embodiments the interface module receives or is provided executable files by loading boot files. In some embodiments the interface module is provided executable files via a file transfer protocol FTP transmission. In a number of embodiments the interface module receives or is provided the executable instructions over the network . Sometimes the configuration tool provides the executable instructions to the interface module over the network . Sometimes the user takes the executable instructions from the configuration software and provides them to the interface module.

At step in operation of the interface module the interface module receives data via one or more ports or interfaces. The interface module may receive a plurality of streams of data via any number of communication means. The data received by the interface module may comprise any stream of data stream of values or readings instructions commands signals calibration values or any data points traversing the interface module. In some embodiments the interface module receives data from a plurality of sources such as sensors circuits controllers websites comprising data from stock markets or weather and more. The interface module may monitor the data as the data traverses the module. The interface module may differentiate data from one data source from data from another data source. The data traversing the interface module may include any number of instructions which may be used to control command or operate any one of the interface module control module such as a LCM driver such as a LED driver or a lighting source such as a LED . The interface module may receive data instructions or signals via any communication means. In some embodiments the interface module includes one or more communication ports receiving commands instructions or data via a network port such as a modem connected to network . In a number of embodiments the interface module includes one or more wireless communication links which receive commands instructions or data via a wireless signal or a wireless port. In some embodiments the interface module receives data via a port receiving a radio signal or a radio wave. In a number of embodiments the interface module receives data via a port receiving a satellite signal. In a plurality of embodiments the interface module receives data via a plurality of ports of the same or different kinds. In a number of embodiments the interface module receives data via any number of ports from any one or any combination of a configuration tool LCM LED or LED .

At step the interface module detects from any of the received data from any of its ports the user identified input of the rule. The interface module may detect the user identified input from the received data using any detection or matching technique. In some embodiments the interface module detects the user identified input by reading parsing and interpreting data received such as portions of a network packet or one or more data values. In some embodiments the interface module identifies the user identified input from the received data by parsing the received data and matching the parsed data to the user identified input. In some embodiments the interface module detects from a plurality of data traversing the interface module the user identified input. In some embodiments the user identified input is detected from a stream of data from a plurality of streams of data traversing the interface module. In some embodiments the interface module detects from a network port a first user identified input and from another communication port a second user identified input. In some embodiments the interface module detects a plurality of user identified inputs from a variety of data streams or data sources traversing the interface module via any number of communication ports. In a plurality of embodiments the interface module detects from the received data a plurality of user identified inputs of the rule. In some embodiments the interface module detects a plurality of user identified inputs from a plurality of portions of data received from a plurality of interface module communication ports.

At step the interface module responsive to the detection of the user identified input of the rule executes the rule. The interface module and or any other component of the lighting network may execute any executable instruction of the user specified rule or any portion thereof. In some embodiments the interface module executes the rule. In many embodiments the LCM executes the rule. In many embodiments the interface module executes a first part of the rule and another component of the lighting network executes a second portion of the rule. In some embodiments the interface module instructs a component such as a LCM to execute the rule. In some embodiments the interface module is already executing the executable instruction of the user specified rule to detect the user specified input. Upon detection additional instructions logic operating or functions of the executable instruction are executed. In some embodiments the interface module executes the rule generated in response to the detection of the user specified input. In many embodiments the interface module executes the rule generated in response to a portion of data received by the interface module. In some embodiments the interface module creates or generates the rule in response to a portion of data received by the interface module. In a number of embodiments the interface module modifies the rule generated in response to a portion of data received by the interface module. The interface module may modify the rule generated in response to an input a command a signal or an instruction from the data received by the interface module. The interface module may execute the modified rule.

At step the interface module responsive to execution of the rule causes the triggering of the one or more lighting effects specified by the rule via any type and form of interface to one or more control modules such as a LCM . In some embodiments the interface module causes triggering of the lighting effects via any component of the lighting network. In some embodiments the interface module triggers one or more lighting effects specified by the rule via the control module such as an LCM a driver such as a LED driver or a lighting source such as a LED . In many embodiments the interface module triggers one or more lighting effects specified by the rule via any number or any type of lighting network components such as any number of LCMs LEDs and more. In some embodiments the interface module transmits one or more of the executable instructions to the LCM to specify control or instruct the LCM to execute the lighting effects specified by the user. The interface module may in response to the execution of the rule transmit one or more executable instructions to a component or a device on the lighting network to trigger the execution of the one or more user specified lighting effects. In some embodiments the interface module responsive to the execution of the rule causes triggering of the one or more lighting effects specified by the rule according to the identified inputs by the user. In some embodiments the interface module responsive to the execution of the rule causes triggering of the one or more lighting effects specified by the modified rule. In some embodiments the rule triggers one or more other rules to be executed by any number of lighting network components.

