---

title: Method and system for generating an employment metric
abstract: A method for generating an employment metric involves obtaining employer payroll data from multiple business applications and obtaining personal income data from multiple financial management applications, where personal income data indicate at least one income source absent from employer payroll data. The method further involves aggregating employer payroll data and personal income data to obtain aggregated employment data, and generating the employment metric using aggregated employment data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07809622&OS=07809622&RS=07809622
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 07809622
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
Because economies for example regional economies national economies global economies and cross sections thereof can be very complicated economists tend to be interested in generating economic indicators that help quantify and or predict behaviors of the economies. Employment is one such economic indicator. Employment is typically measured as the percentage of the eligible workforce seeking employment that is actually employed. Employment is often measured by its opposite unemployment meaning the percentage of the eligible workforce seeking employment that is not actually employed.

High unemployment may indicate a struggling economy and low unemployment may indicate a thriving economy. However because the unemployment rate is based on eligible workers who are seeking employment if fewer workers are seeking employment it is possible for an economy to lose jobs even as unemployment decreases. Further an individual worker may be employed in two or more positions. For example the worker may have a full time job and a part time job two full time jobs two part time jobs etc.

Employment statistics may be determined in one or more of the following ways. First employment surveys may be issued to eligible workers and the workers replies may be used to determine the current unemployment rate. For example in the United States of America US the US Census Bureau routinely issues surveys to samples of the population to determine information including but not limited to employment statistics. The accuracy of statistics derived from such surveys is highly dependent on the representative quality of the surveys and the accuracy of the workers replies. Workers do not always truthfully report their employment status especially if they have untaxed sources of income.

Second employment statistics may be determined based on workers claims for unemployment benefits. Typically a change in claims from one month to the next is considered indicative of the directional growth of the employment market. For example if more people claim unemployment in March than in February unemployment may be rising. However if a worker stops claiming unemployment this method cannot determine whether the worker has found work or has simply given up looking for work. Thus especially in long term employment shortages decreasing unemployment claims may not accurately reflect an increase in the employment market.

Third employers may periodically report the number of employees on its payrolls. When the payroll numbers from multiple employers are combined a change in total payroll numbers from one month to the next may indicate an increase or decrease in total employment. However as noted above workers may receive untaxed sources of income. Thus a worker may leave a business and continue earning income without being counted in any official payroll numbers.

In some cases employment unemployment statistics are based on a combination of one or more of the factors described above. For example a local state or national government may examine the aforementioned factors and issue a reasoned estimate of the current unemployment rate. Such estimates are often revised upward or downward as new information becomes available.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for generating an employment metric. The method comprises obtaining employer payroll data from a plurality of business applications obtaining personal income data from a plurality of financial management applications wherein personal income data indicate at least one income source absent from employer payroll data aggregating employer payroll data and personal income data to obtain aggregated employment data and generating the employment metric using aggregated employment data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for generating an employment metric. The system comprises an aggregate data repository configured to store aggregated employment data wherein aggregated employment data comprises employer payroll data from a plurality of business applications wherein aggregated employment data further comprises personal income data from a plurality of financial management applications and wherein personal income data indicate at least one income source absent from employer payroll data. The system further comprises a data processing service operatively connected to the aggregate data repository and configured to generate the employment metric using aggregated employment data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions for generating an employment metric. The executable instructions comprise instructions to obtain employer payroll data from a plurality of business applications obtain personal income data from a plurality of financial management applications wherein personal income data indicate at least one income source absent from employer payroll data aggregate employer payroll data and personal income data to obtain aggregated employment data and generate the employment metric using aggregated employment data.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for generating an employment metric. Employer payroll data are obtained from multiple business applications and personal income data are obtained from multiple financial management applications. In one or more embodiments of the invention the personal income data indicate one or more income sources that are absent from the employer payroll data. The employer payroll data and personal income data are aggregated and the aggregated data are used to generate the employment metric.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources include one or more financial management applications used to manage income expenditures taxes and or any other type of financial data for a government entity business family or individual. Further the data sources may include one or more business applications. Business applications are software products that provide functionality for managing business operations. A financial management application for a business is one example of a business application. Other examples of business applications include payroll applications customer relationship management CRM applications shopping cart applications for example associated with the backend of a shopping website inventory tracking applications supply chain management applications project management applications production management application for example associated with large object manufacturing and or large quantity manufacturing or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to business operations. Many different types of data sources may be used.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data obtained from the data sources include employer payroll data from business applications. Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the employer payroll data identify the number of employees of different businesses. The employer payroll data may also include additional information about each employee such as salary duration of employment benefits information for example health benefits and or any other type of information typically stored by employers about their employees. In one or more embodiments of the invention each employee is identified in the employer payroll data by a unique identifier such as a social security number employee number or any other type of identifier suitable for distinguishing between different employees. To help protect sensitive and or private data unique identifiers may be chosen that are not traceable back to specific employees.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention data obtained from the data sources include personal income data from financial management applications. Specifically one or more of the financial management applications may be used to track individual and or family income and expenses over time e.g. using electronic bank records and or manual entries based on purchase receipts . In one or more embodiments of the invention entries in the financial management applications include income i.e. gains in financial assets . For example the entries may list deposits of paychecks and or other types of deposits into financial accounts. Thus personal income data may be obtained from those entries.

Further data transmitted to the aggregate data repository may include demographic information about businesses such as name location industry annual revenues or any other type of demographic information about the businesses. Demographic information about businesses may be used to filter aggregated data as described below.

Further data transmitted to the aggregate data repository may include information about individuals businesses and or families such as name age gender ethnicity occupation annual household income or any other type of demographic information about the individuals and or families. Demographic information about the individuals and or families may be used to filter aggregated data as described below.

Further in one or more embodiments the system includes one or more data processing services e.g. data processing service A data processing service B . In one or more embodiments the data processing services are configured to generate one or more economic indicators or other types of business and or finance metrics based on data stored in the aggregate data repository . Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the data processing services are configured to generate an economic indicator or other type of metric using one or more methods described in detail below. For example a data processing service may be configured to generate an employment metric using aggregated employer payroll data and personal income data.

In view of the above in one or more embodiments the data sources may be thought of as input services for the aggregate date repository because the data sources are used to input data to the aggregate data repository . Further in one or more embodiments the data processing services may be thought of as output services for the aggregate data repository because the data processing services generate output based on the data in the aggregate data repository . Specifically the data processing services generate output in the form of economic indicators and or other types of metrics and may also be configured to generate other types of output based on data from the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is communicatively coupled with application programming interfaces APIs not shown that allow input services and or output services to interact with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregate data repository is restricted using an authentication service . Specifically the authentication service is configured to ensure that only authorized data processing services are given access to the aggregate data repository . For example the authentication service may require a data processing service to present a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential recognized as valid by the authentication service . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is located in a local area network LAN and the authentication service includes a firewall protecting the LAN from unauthorized access.

Further the system may include a data filter configured to filter data provided to the data processing services. In one or more embodiments of the invention filtering the data allows for economic indictors and or other types of metrics to be customized for different demographics. For example the data may be filtered based on information about consumers such as age gender location and annual income. The data may also be filtered based on information about businesses such as location or industry. Many different types of filtering criteria may be used. In one or more embodiments of the invention individual data processing services are authorized to access only a subset of the data in the aggregate data repository and the data filter is configured to enforce the subsets available to the data processing services. In one or more embodiments of the invention if a data processing service has access to only a subset of the data any data outside that subset are completely hidden from the data processing service.

As discussed above the data sources diagrammed in may include one or more financial management applications. shows a diagram of a system that includes a financial management application in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The financial management application may be a financial management application used by a government entity a business a family or an individual. In one or more embodiments of the invention a similar diagram may be envisioned that replaces the financial management application with a business application where data stored by the business application include payroll data about employees.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data from the financial management application are stored in an application data repository . The application data repository may be a database an XML document a spreadsheet a text file or any other type of repository configured to store data associated with the financial management application . In one or more embodiments of the invention data stored in the application data repository include information about individual and or family income such as income from paychecks and or other types of financial gains. Moreover the application data repository may be configured to store demographic information about the government entity business family or individual using the financial management application .

In one or more embodiments of the invention before data from the application data repository are transmitted to an aggregated data repository the data are transformed to a format compatible with the aggregate data repository . As one example if the aggregate data repository is a database the data may require normalization to conform with a database schema used by the aggregate data repository . As another example the data may require transformation to a particular XML format. Many different types of data transformation may be required depending on the implementations of the application data repository and the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention to transform the data to a compatible format the data are transmitted to a staging data repository using a data link service . In one or more embodiments the data link service is a module or plug in of the financial management application . Alternatively the data link service may be independent of the financial management application . In either case the data link service is configured to retrieve data from the application data repository and transmit the data for example over a file system and or network to the staging data repository .

Further in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to retrieve only a subset of the data available in the application data repository . For example if the application data repository is configured to store an individual s financial data the data link service may omit data that uniquely identify the individual such as a credit card number a social security number a street address a phone number or any other type of personally identifying data. Alternatively personally identifying data may be transmitted to the aggregate data repository and privacy of the data may be enforced by another component of the system such as an authentication service not shown communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention once the data are stored in the staging data repository the data are transformed to the required format by a data transformation service . The transformed data are then transmitted to the aggregate data repository . Data stored in the aggregate data repository may then be used to generate an economic indicator as discussed herein.

While the system shown in includes several different components embodiments of the invention may be envisioned that omit one or more of these components. For example in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to transmit data directly to the data transformation service . In such cases use of the staging data repository may not be required. Further the financial management application may be configured to generate data in a format that is already compatible with the aggregate data repository . In such cases use of the data transformation service may not be required.

Moreover the financial management application may be configured to store data directly in the aggregate data repository . For example the financial management application may be a web based application configured to use the aggregate data repository for data storage. In such cases the application data repository and data link service may not be required. Alternatively the system may be logically separated into client side and server side components. For example the financial management application application data repository and or data link service may be executing on an end user s computer system and the staging data repository data transformation service and or aggregate data repository may be executing on one or more other computer systems separated from the end user s computer system by a network.

Many different embodiments of the system may be envisioned that remain within the scope of the invention. Further while the system is described with respect to a financial management application a similar system may be envisioned that uses other types of application software.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step data are obtained from multiple data sources. As discussed above the data sources may include financial management applications for managing government business family and or individual finances. Further the data sources may include one or more business applications such as payroll applications CRM applications shopping cart applications inventory tracking applications supply chain management applications project management applications production management application for example associated with large object manufacturing and or large quantity manufacturing or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to business operations. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data obtained from the data sources include employer payroll data from business applications and personal income data from financial management applications.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the data are transformed to a data format that is compatible with an aggregate data repository. For example as discussed above the data may be transformed to satisfy a particular database schema or XML format. Further as discussed above the data may be transformed using a data transformation service communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository. In general in one or more embodiments of the invention transforming the data allows for data from multiple types of data sources to be aggregated in the aggregate data repository.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the data are aggregated. As noted above aggregating means grouping together. For example data may be grouped in one or more tables of the database cells in a spreadsheet fields of an XML document or in any other aggregated format. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregating the data helps facilitate generating an economic indicator and or other type of metric based on data from multiple data sources.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step access to the aggregated data is restricted. Restricting access to the aggregated data involves ensuring that the aggregated data is only accessible to authorized entities for example businesses individuals and or government entities. For example access may be restricted by enforcing a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential. Further access may be restricted based on a location of the aggregate data repository in a network. For example the aggregate data repository may be located in a local area network LAN and access may be restricted using a firewall that protects the LAN from unauthorized access.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregated data is restricted based on whether an entity has purchased access to the aggregated data. In other words access to the aggregated data may be sold and non paying entities may be restricted from accessing the aggregated data. For example an entity may purchase access to query using Structured Query Language SQL a report interface or any other appropriate query mechanism the aggregated data or a subset thereof. In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregated data is sold using a subscription model where the entity purchases access for a limited time period or with recurring fees.

Alternatively a copy of the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be provided to the entity in an electronic storage medium. As one example aggregated data may be packaged in an electronic file and transmitted to the entity via File Transfer Protocol FTP email or any other type of electronic transmission. As another example a data set including the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be written to a portable storage medium such as a compact disc CD digital video disc DVD flash drive or any other type of portable storage medium given to the purchasing entity. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to provide restricted access to the aggregated data. In one or more embodiments of the invention the price of access is proportional to the amount of access granted. For example access to query all of the aggregated data may cost more than access to query a subset of the aggregated data for example for a particular demographic population .

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the aggregated data are filtered. As discussed above filtering the data may allow for economic indicators and or other types of metrics to be customized for different demographics. For example the data may be filtered based on information consumers such as age gender location and annual income. The data may also be filtered based on information about businesses such as location or industry. Many different types of filtering criteria may be used. Further the aggregated data may effectively be filtered retrospectively. In other words because the aggregate data repository may include a variety of demographic data different filtering criteria may be applied at different times. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the aggregated data Step also involves a type of filtering by limiting access to a particular subset of the aggregated data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step an economic indicator is generated using the aggregated data. Many different types of economic indicators exist. In one or more embodiments of the invention the aggregated data include employer payroll data and personal income data. Further the economic indicator may be generated based on the employer payroll data and personal income data. Specifically generating the economic indicator may involve one or more steps shown in discussed in detail below. In one or more embodiments of the invention if an entity purchases access to the aggregated data or an entity thereof the economic indicator is generated by the purchasing entity using the aggregated data. Alternatively the economic indicator may be generated by the same entity that controls the aggregate data repository.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step access to the economic indicator is restricted. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the economic indicator involves using a username and or password an encrypted digital signature network based security two or more factor authentication or any other type of access control. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention access to the economic indicator is based on whether an entity has paid for access to the economic indicator. In other words access to the economic indicator may be sold and non paying entities may be restricted from accessing the economic indicator. For example an entity may purchase access to a one time or periodical report for example a newsletter that includes the economic indicator.

The report may be distributed by email paper copy portable storage medium FTP restricted webpage or any other physical or electronic distribution medium. In one or more embodiments of the invention the entity is granted access to an electronic interface that allows the entity or a representative thereof to run the report on demand. Alternatively reports may be generated by the same entity that controls the aggregate data repository. The report interface may also include controls to filter the aggregated data used to generate the economic indicator Step .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the specific filtering criteria used are based on requests by purchasing entities. Thus the reports may effectively be customized for the purchasing entities. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to provide restricted access to the economic indicator. In one or more embodiments of the invention the price of access is proportional to the amount of access granted. For example access to economic indicators for an entire country may cost more than access to an economic indicator for an individual town or county.

Beginning with discussion of in one or more embodiments of the invention in Step employer payroll data are obtained. As discussed above the employer payroll data identify the number of employees of different businesses. The employer payroll data may also include additional information about each employee such as salary duration of employment benefits information for example health benefits and or any other type of information typically stored by employers about their employees. In one or more embodiments of the invention each employee is identified in the employer payroll data by a unique identifier such as a social security number employee number or any other type of identifier suitable for distinguishing between different employees. To help protect sensitive and or private data unique identifiers may be chosen that are not traceable back to specific employees.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention in Step personal income data are obtained. As discussed above the personal income data identify income sources such as paychecks and other types of financial gains. For example profits from online sales of products for example using EBay Craigslist the Global E Commerce Mega Marketplace GEMM or any other similar type of electronic storefront hosting a website day trading investments or any other type of profit generating activity may be considered income for the purposes of this discussion. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that online sales via one or more of the aforementioned electronic storefronts or other profit generating activity may not be included in the employer payroll data. Accordingly in one or more embodiments of the invention the personal income data include information about off the books sources of income that would not be counted in employment statistics using traditional methods.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the employer payroll data and the personal income data are aggregated. Specifically the employer payroll data and the personal income data may be aggregated using a system and or method described above. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregating the employer payroll data and the personal income data allows for all income sources i.e. official income sources and off the books income sources to be considered collectively.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the employment metric is generated based on the aggregated data. Many different types of employment metrics may be generated. As one example the aggregated data may be used to estimate an unemployment rate or conversely an employment rate . As another example the aggregated data may be used to compare official income i.e. income reported by employers with off the books income. Such information may be useful for example to estimate tax revenues lost to off the books income.

Further as noted above the aggregated data may be filtered according to demographic criteria. Accordingly the employment metric may be specific to one or more demographic criteria. For example the employment metric may relate to employment in a specific industry or income bracket. Further the employment metric may relate to worker demographics such as age sex location or marital status. The aggregated data may be filtered in many different ways to generate a customized employment metric.

Turning to discussion of as noted above the employment metric may identify an employment unemployment rate. To that end in one or more embodiments of the invention in Step an employment status is identified for each worker represented in the aggregated data. As noted above a worker may receive income from an official source and or an off the books source. If the worker does not recieve income from an off the books source traditional methods of determining the unemployment rate would count the worker as unemployed. However in one or more embodiments of the invention because personal income data identifies off the books income sources the worker may be counted as employed instead.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step having identified that the worker receives an official income source and or an off the books income source the worker is counted exactly once in a total employment count. If the worker receives multiple official income sources the worker may also be counted exactly once. In one or more embodiments of the invention counting the worker exactly once helps provide a more accurate total count of employed workers in the employment metric. Thus embodiments of the invention help avoid skewing the employment metric when workers have multiple income sources and or off the books income sources.

In one or more embodiments of the invention counting the worker exactly once is achieved using one or more of the aforementioned unique identifiers. Specifically each income source for a worker may be associated with the same unique identifier for example the worker s social security number thereby allowing all the worker s income sources to be considered as a whole even if the income sources are reported from a mixture of business applications and personal financial management applications.

In general embodiments of the invention allow for an employment metric to be generated based on aggregated employer payroll data and personal income data. Because the data are obtained from multiple data sources e.g. both from the employer and employee using automated processes the data may be very timely and accurate. Thus embodiments of the invention may help individuals businesses and government entities to make informed decisions based on the actual employment market. For example in the event of a crisis for example an immediate crisis such as a natural disaster or terrorist attack or a long term crisis such as severe economic depression or recession embodiments of the invention may provide timely and accurate information about how the employment market is responding to the crisis. Without timely and accurate information the impact of the crisis on the employment market may be underestimated or overestimated. Further embodiments of the invention allow the employment metric to be generated and regenerated based on a variety of demographic criteria. Thus embodiments of the invention allow for the employment metric to be tailored to the specific economic interests of individuals businesses and or government entities.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention for example a data processing service authentication service data filter aggregate data repository data source business application application data repository data link service staging data repository data processing service and or any other portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

