---

title: System and method for tracking and rewarding users
abstract: Systems and methods of tracking and rewarding users of search engines, content networks, communication networks, other networks and/or combinations of networks are described. In many embodiments, users create accounts and control when and the type of information that is tracked. The tracked information can be used to provide rewards, customize offers and rewards and to improve services provided to the user. One embodiment includes receiving secure identification information from the user, retrieving user account information using the secure identification information, receiving a search query from the user, crediting the user account with a reward that is directly related to providing the search query, and returning search results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812532&OS=08812532&RS=08812532
owner: 
number: 08812532
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080107
---
The current application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 883 971 filed Jan. 8 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to rewards programs and more specifically to the tracking of users and the rewarding of users based upon tracked behavior.

Many internet search engines generate revenue by selling advertising space to advertisers that wish to provide advertising relevant to specific key word search terms or that wish to target specific keywords on a broad content network or target specific sites or target a specific audience. In many instances competition for advertising space is resolved by the search engine operator auctioning key word advertising or site targeted advertising or context targeted advertising to the highest bidder. The amount of revenue generated by a search engine is typically proportional to the number of impressions i.e. number of people to whom the advertising was shown and or the number of click throughs i.e. the number of people that visited the advertiser s web page in response to the advertisement and or the number of people who take a specific action such as complete a form or initiate a call or sign up for a service or execute a transaction or buy some good or service and or the total value of transactions conducted by users as a result of the advertisement or promotion or offer from the search engine or its content network partners or advertising partners or advertisers or combinations thereof.

Content providers can attempt to increase advertising revenue by providing advertising relevant to the content provided. In many instances the advertising is provided by third parties that use tools to determine the nature of the content offered by a content provider and match the advertising to the content.

Mobile devices are increasingly being used to view content. Therefore mobile devices are also becoming devices that can be used to distribute advertising. The increasing functionality of mobile devices is also leading a number of mobile network operators to contemplate providing transaction services in addition to voice and data services. Transaction services can include enabling users to subscribe to services offered by the mobile network operator subscribing to services offered by third parties purchasing goods making payments via financial accounts or other payment technique and or other types of transactions.

Systems for tracking and rewarding user behavior are described. One embodiment includes receiving secure identification information from the user retrieving user account information using the secure identification information receiving a search query from the user crediting the user account with a reward that is directly related to providing the search query and returning search results.

A further embodiment includes establishing a content network including a plurality of separate content sources receiving secure identification information from a user client application retrieving user account information using the secure identification information and crediting the user account with a reward that is related to a user interaction with a content source within the content network.

Another embodiment includes a computing device connected to a network content servers connected to the network and a tracking server connected to the network. In addition the computing device is configured to view content provided by the content servers via the network and the computing device is configured to provide identification information and information concerning user activities to the tracking server via the network in response to a user authorization.

A yet further embodiment includes a mobile communication device configured to receive content from a content server via a mobile network provided by a network operator and a rewards server that is configured to track interactions between the mobile communication device and content servers. In addition the rewards server is configured to credit an account associated with the user in response to specific actions of the mobile communication device.

Turning now to the drawings systems for tracking and rewarding user behavior are shown. In several embodiments the system is capable of tracking activities of a user including sites visited by the user and interactions that a user has with the site. In many embodiments tracked information is used to allocate rewards to the user. Typically the rewards are awarded in direct response to the user performing a specified activity. Direct rewards can be distinguished from random awards which typically involve a user being allocated an entry in a sweepstake in response to the completion of a predetermined activity. Allocation of rewards can vary depending upon the system. The rewards can be associated with use of a search engine activities within a content network and or activities associated with use of a mobile device such as a cell phone personal digital assistant and or other networked consumer electronics device. The rewards can take any of a variety of forms including money points redeemable for money goods and or services goods discounts on goods including coupons and or services including free mobile phone minutes.

In a number of embodiments a user creates a profile that is stored in a rewards management system. The profile can be populated from a variety of sources including from the user directly from profiles associated with other accounts and or from information collected by the system as the system tracks the user s activity. Tracked information and or rewards are associated with the user s profile and actual or inferred information from the profile can be used in the selection of rewards in the selection of offers and in the provision of services.

In several embodiments the user has complete control over when the user s activities are tracked by the system and the types of information collected when the user s activities are being tracked. In many embodiments the tracked information is used to improve the quality of services provided to the user such as search services. In a number of embodiments the tracked information and or a user s profile are used to refine the rewards allocated to a user. In several embodiments tracked information from one or more users is used to detect attempts to game the system and to penalize attempts to fraudulently obtain rewards. Systems for tracking and rewarding users in accordance with embodiments of the invention are discussed further below.

A system for tracking user behavior and rewarding users in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The system includes at least one client that is capable of obtaining information from online content sources via a network . In a number of embodiments a client is an appropriately configured personal computer. In many embodiments a client is a consumer electronics device such as a mobile phone a portable game machine set top box and or any other device capable of connecting to a data network. In the illustrated embodiment the client is connected to a network . The network can be the Internet a cable network or mobile phone network a wireless access point or any other communication network.

The system includes a search engine server and a rewards management server . The search engine server and the rewards management server are both connected to the network and in many embodiments are connected to each other. The rewards management server includes a data storage management system and a rewards management system . The rewards management server is also connected to a storage device .

A number of web servers are also connected to the network and many of the servers are associated with content networks. A content network is an association of content sources that can include online sources that provide content via a digital communication network on an on demand basis such as the web servers shown in and offline sources such as television content providers including broadcast cable and satellite print media and other sources that provide content on a basis other than an on demand basis. The association formed between the content sources can take any of a variety of forms. In a number of embodiments content networks include a number of content sources that source advertising and or other services from a single source. In other embodiments content networks include a number of content sources that collectively market or sell advertising. In many embodiments a content network is created by a number of content sources seeking to jointly promote content and or services from the various sources within the content network. In the illustrated embodiment the content network web servers host web pages that provide content and can include additional features associated with membership in the content network. The additional features may simply be information indicating membership of the content network. The additional features could also include providing access to a search engine that forms part of the content network or that has agreed to provide search services to a content network advertising provided by an advertising source associated with the content network and any other feature that advances the interests of the content network.

In a number of embodiments a number of web pages within the content network include search functionality enabled by the search engine web server and or include search based advertising. In many embodiments the advertising is site targeted advertising contextual advertising context targeted advertising content targeted advertising keyword targeted advertising and or other forms of advertising.

Several of the web servers illustrated in are associated with advertisers. The advertiser web servers host advertiser web pages . The system also includes several vendor web servers that host vendor web pages . As will be discussed further below the system can track user interaction with these servers and can allocate rewards in direct response to predetermined interactions.

In many embodiments the client provides the rewards management server with information concerning the activities of the user. As will be discussed further below several embodiments of the invention provide the user with the ability to control when and what information is communicated to the rewards management server . The information provided to the rewards management server can be used to track the user s behavior and or provide the user with rewards. Various examples of activities that can be tracked and that can form the basis of rewards are discussed below.

In a number of embodiments the rewards management server tracks and rewards a user s search related activities. A user can use the client to provide a search query to a search engine server . The search engine server responds to the search request by generating a series of search results. The search results can be obtained using any search algorithms. In addition to the search results the search terms can be used to identify advertisers interested in associating their advertisements with the search results. In many embodiments the search results and advertisements are formatted as a web page that is provided to the client by the search engine server . In the event that revenue is generated from advertising and or via the user clicking through an advertiser s advertisement the rewards management server can allocate all or a portion of the revenue to an account maintained by the rewards management server with respect to the user as a direct reward for the activity performed by the user. The reward can also be linked to the user performing an action with respect to an advertiser s site such as viewing the site joining the site subscribing to a service purchasing a good or service from the site providing information to the site making a referral or recommendation virally propagating an aspect of the site and or any other action.

In several embodiments the rewards management server can track and reward a user s interactions with any site irrespective of whether the user was directed to the site as a result of a search query. In a number of embodiments the rewards management server tracks and rewards a user for interactions with sites associated with a content network. These interactions can include any of the interactions described above and can further include conducting a search within a content network conducting a search from a site within a content network and actions that may result in the user navigating away from the content network.

In addition or as an alternative to rewarding users with revenue rewards management servers in accordance with several embodiments of the invention maintain information concerning the search history and or browsing history of a user. The maintained information can be used by a rewards management server to allocate reward points to the user. The reward points can be exchanged for goods services and or money. Examples of appropriate points rewards include but are not limited to airline miles or points that can be exchanged for other rewards including airline miles or free stays at hotels or free mobile services including mobile telecommunications minutes free passes to WiFi hotspots free SMS messages free MMS messages and or free ring tones free games free subscriptions to a mobile service or other services or a free device that permits the use of a service. The maintained information can also be used by a rewards management server to provide a user with offers for goods and or services. In a number of embodiments the search history and or browsing history are also reviewed in the allocation of rewards to detect repeated patterns of high volumes of usage indicative of abuse of the system. In several embodiments abuse is prevented by allocating awards in ways that cannot be predicted by a user so that repetitive behavior is not likely to result in the accumulation of rewards. Embodiments of various processes for tracking and rewarding different types of user behavior are described below.

A process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention for tracking and or rewarding a user s search activities is shown in . The process includes conducting a search in order to generate search results. Once search results are generated the search results can be used to select advertisements relevant to the search terms or other information that formed the basis of the search. The search results and the selected advertisements can then be displayed . Often the display of advertisements can result in a payment from an advertiser. A portion of the payment can be allocated to a user as a direct cash reward for the user s patronage of the search service. In the event that a cash reward is provided to the user an account maintained on behalf of the user is updated to reflect the reward. As discussed above the payment is often predicated on the search not matching a pattern of activity determined to be indicative of abuse. In several embodiments the reward is a predetermined amount that is unrelated to specific advertising revenue that is generated by a user s search. The amount can be determined as an example based upon average advertising revenue generation rates or using any other method.

Once the search results and advertisements are displayed a user can perform any number of actions including navigating to the web page of an advertiser. The act often referred to as click through of redirecting to an advertiser s website in response to an advertisement can result in the payment of money to the search engine operator. In other embodiments other predetermined actions such as clicking through a website and performing an action at the advertiser s website such as providing personal information becoming a member of the site completing a subscription endorsing and or recommending a person entity vendor service provider or product purchasing a product or service virally propagating an aspect of the site and or any other predetermined action or sequence of actions can result in the allocation of a reward. In a number of embodiments a portion of the payment or a predetermined reward is allocated to a user. As with payments for the display of advertisements the allocation of a reward to the user is reflected by performing an update to the user s account.

In order to track and or assign rewards to a specific user a rewards management server typically must be able to identify actions associated with specific users. In a number of embodiments the user is identified to a rewards management server via software installed on the user s client device such as client software or a cookie. In other embodiments the user identifies himself or herself to the rewards management server by logging into the rewards management server prior to performing any activity. A user can also instruct the rewards management server whether the user wishes for information to be collected and or the type of information that the user is willing to allow the rewards management server to collect. A feature of many embodiments is that the user is uniquely identified and the information used to identify the user is maintained securely.

A state diagram showing a series of user interface displays generated by a client in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The state diagram includes a secure login screen that includes prompts that request a user name and password from the user. The user name and password are used to populate a user account main page with information about the user and his or her account. In several embodiments the user account main page includes balances of various types of rewards such as cash rewards offers and or point rewards. In addition the user account main page can include prompts enabling the deposit use or transfer of cash. The user account main page can also provide access to a directory of merchants with whom rewards can be redeemed. The user account main page can also provide prompts enabling the purchase of goods and or services with reward points and the transfer of reward points. In many embodiments the user account main page generally enables a user to manage his or her account and can provide the user with access to customer service and information to assist the user in the management of the account. In many embodiments the user account main page supports messaging contact management and or online social networking features.

The user can transition from the user account main page to the toggle switch for system tracking page . The toggle switch for system tracking page is a page that provides the user with prompts enabling the user to turn on and off system tracking and enabling the user to specify the type of information the system can collect and enabling the user to specify the collected information. In a number of embodiments the toggle switch can be easily accessed from a dedicated button or from a pull down menu in the user s browser or toolbar or search toolbar or a dedicated button on the user s browsing device as may be installed according to the user s preferences.

Information provided by a user in response to prompts on the user account main page and the toggle switch for system tracking page can lead to a transition to an account management page . The account management page is a page that enables control over a variety of additional aspects of the user account. In a number of embodiments the page can be used to update user information select and approve data usage specify user preferences link to other accounts enable or disable toggle switching view the user s transaction history and or generate reports. As an example the user can link his or her account to a user s other accounts to facilitate the transfer of user information. These accounts can include but are not limited to accounts with other sites or vendors content networks financial institutions e.g. PayPal credit card brokerage etc. other rewards programs and or any other accounts containing personal information.

A state diagram showing a series of user interface diagrams generated by a client during creation of a user account in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . When a user wishes to create an account the user is provided with an initial sign up screen in which the user provides initial sign up information that include an email address first name last name date of birth a user name and password. The initial information can be supplemented by other information that can be solicited from the user via additional sign up screens . The user can also modify the information at a later date. Once the user has created an account the user can be provided with an interface that facilitates the installation of tracking controls. The user is provided with one or more options for installing a toggle switch that enables the user to control whether or not tracking is enabled. The interface and or other interfaces can also enable the user to specify the types of information that can be tracked and the uses that can be made of the tracked information. In systems that support profiles the sign up process can include additional interfaces that solicit additional information that can be used in refining offers rewards and or advertising presented to a user. In the illustrated embodiment an interface solicits profile information concerning relationships and lifestyle and another interface solicits personal information such as information concerning education work history hobbies interests favorite books favorite music favorite movies favorite TV shows favorite sites travel destinations and membership on other sites. In many embodiments profile information similar to that solicited in the interfaces and can be automatically obtained from other sites such as online networking sites. In several embodiments the information is extracted using standard APIs. In the illustrated embodiment an interface provides a search facility that enables a user to search for sites including sites of social networks financial institutions rewards programs etc. to link to the user s profile. The interface also includes a directory to enable selection of sites to link to the user s profile. Another interface can solicit information required to log into the site and extract information for inclusion in the user s profile. In embodiments that support messaging an interface can be provided that enables the user to import contact information into the user account. In many embodiments the user is provided with rewards as an incentive for referring contacts to sign up to be a part of the tracking and rewards system and or other programs. Although a specific set of interfaces and categories of information is shown in other interfaces can be used to construct a user profile.

As discussed above interfaces can be provided that enable a user to specify the type of information that can be tracked by a tracking and rewards system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. A state diagram showing a series of user interface displays for soliciting instructions from a user concerning the information to track is shown in . One interface includes a series of options of the types of information that can be tracked. In the illustrated embodiment the categories include search data browsing data personal profile data relationships and lifestyle data and data from other linked accounts. In other embodiments additional options and or a different set of options can be provided. In many embodiments options can be provided that enable a user to specify the usage of tracked information. In several embodiments such options would include but not be limited to enabling a user to specify usage by data field within the user profile. Examples of uses can include whether the information can be provided to 3parties whether the information can be used to target advertising offers and or rewards and or whether the information can be used to refine search results. The state diagram in also includes an interface that enables the user to toggle tracking on and off. As discussed above the tracking toggle can be provided in any of a variety of locations. The toggle can be located within the user interface of a browser can be located within an interface provided by a web site and or any other interface established by the operator of a tracking and rewards system.

As discussed above several embodiments of the system enable a user to toggle between tracking a user s activities and not tracking the user s activities. A flow chart showing a process for tracking system usage in response to an instruction to track system usage in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process is similar to the process shown in . However in the process shown in a decision is made concerning whether a user has enabled tracking of her or his browsing or searching. In the event that the user has not enabled tracking the system either notifies the user of the need to set tracking to obtain benefits or sets some form of a periodic reminder. When the user has enabled tracking the generation of search results and the performance of an action of advertising causes the retrieval of user data. The user s data is then updated with information concerning the search such as the time location browsing history click through information and any other available information that may be of interest. The information used to update the account can then be used to calculate any cash rewards and or point rewards to be credited to the user. In addition the information can be used to select offers to provide to the user. The user s account can then be updated . The method responds similarly to revenue obtained from the user completing a predetermined action see discussion above . In many embodiments the user only receives a benefit from completing a predetermined action such as a portion of a payment from an advertiser if the user has authorized the system to track the user s browsing and or searching behavior. In many embodiments the user is rewarded for selected searches across a time period hour of day or specific day or week or month or portion of year and or the system excludes any non genuine searches from the calculation and or allocation of any rewards so as to not invite abuse from users.

in several embodiments non genuine searches or non genuine click throughs on advertisements are ignored receive reduced rewards and or result in a deduction from the user s accrued rewards. In many embodiments the Rewards Management System determines the level to which a search request is genuine by comparing a search request from the user and the related browsing pattern leading up to the search request and following the display of search results including but not limited to time spent on specific pages click throughs and or links accessed time of day location and other available data to the user s historical search and browsing patterns and or to general statistics on current search topics and browsing patterns. In several embodiments users are notified of an initial trial period during which no rewards are accrued or allocated the purpose of such trial period is to store data on the user s use search and browsing patterns. This data is then used to guide the allocation of rewards once the trial period is concluded. In several embodiments during periods where the user has enabled tracking the Rewards Management System evaluates the search request and the related browsing pattern leading up to the search request and following the display of search results as described above and assigns a Search Authenticity Index for each search request. In a number of embodiments a Search Authenticity Index is also assigned to a set of search requests. The Search Authenticity Index is used to analyze a sequence of search requests to determine whether to include the specific search requests in the calculation of rewards and or the weighting to assign to such search requests for the purpose of calculating and or allocating rewards at a time in the future. In many embodiments the Rewards Management System randomly selects searches and or click throughs and or browsing activities across a period of time to be included in the calculation and or allocation of rewards so as to make it difficult for users to predict the way the system calculates and or allocated rewards and to discourage users from conducting unnecessary or frivolous searches or attempting to abuse the system. In many embodiments the system examines search requests from multiple users in real time and or click throughs and or browsing activities to determine whether such uses are intended for abuse so as to exclude such uses from the calculation and or the allocation of rewards. In several embodiments the system examines the number of search requests in real time for a specific term or set of terms from a single user and from multiple users and or the associated click throughs to assign a probability of intent of abuse for such searches and or click throughs. Once the probability assigned crosses a pre determined threshold the system would reduce the weighting assigned to such search requests and or click throughs or exclude such search requests and or click throughs for the purpose of the calculation and or allocation of rewards. The manner in which the probability is calculated varies as new patterns characteristic of abuse are identified. In many embodiments the probability of intent of abuse is determined by calculating the correlation between a particular user s behavior and one or more predetermined patterns of abuse.

In many embodiments users can access pages that form part of a content network. Content networks are discussed above and can include a variety of online sites such as publishers sites social utility websites social networking websites news pages or websites or media broadcasters or financial information websites or news aggregators or blog sites or telecom utility websites or others. An embodiment of a process for rewarding a user for performing a search and browsing to pages within a content network is shown in . The process is similar to the process shown in . When a user browses to a page within a specified content network the process determines whether the user has enabled the process to track the user s browsing behavior. If the user has enabled tracking then the system updates the user data and uses the data to reward the user for conducting searches and or predetermined actions related to the content network see description above for examples of typical predetermined actions . In the event the user has disabled tracking then the system can remind the user that the user could obtain rewards by enabling the tracking feature.

The process shown in commences with a user conducting a search and then navigating to a site listed in the search results or a site associated with an advertisement accompanying the search results. Tracking and rewards systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention can continuously track a user s browsing behavior and reward the user for predetermined actions performed with respect to sites within a content network and or sites outside of a content network. A distinction between sites within a content network and sites outside of a content network does not need to be made but is often made where the tracking and rewards system derives revenue from the content network for example serving advertising to sites within the content network .

An embodiment of a process for tracking and rewarding a user as the user interacts with sites within a content network is shown in . The process is similar to the process shown in with the exception that performing a search is simply one type of interaction that a user can have with the content network. As the user browses the content network advertising can be selected and served to pages within the content network by the tracking and rewards system. Assuming that tracking has been enabled the system can provide rewards to the user related to viewing the advertisements. As the user interacts with sites in the content network the user s interactions can be tracked and used to award the user with rewards for performing specific predetermined actions within the content network see discussion above for examples of typical predetermined actions that are rewarded . The advertisements displayed to the user can be site targeted advertisements that are selected based upon the content on a particular site. When a search query is received the advertising can be keyword based advertising. The advertisements can also be context targeted advertisements that are selected based upon the content of sites recently visited by the user and tracked by the system. The advertisements may also be advertisements selected based upon a user s historical browsing activity and or based upon interests and or other pieces of information specified within a user s profile. In several embodiments the advertisements are selected by the tracking and rewards system and provided to the content network. In other embodiments third parties select the advertisements based upon information provided by the tracking and rewards system and provide the advertisements to the content network. In further embodiments third parties select the advertisements displayed within the content network without any communication with the tracking and rewards system.

As discussed above many embodiments of systems in accordance with the present invention collect information concerning the searching and browsing activities performed by a user. In several embodiments rewards are provided for browsing within a content network. However rewards are often awarded for simply enabling the tracking of browsing activity. A process for performing a search and rewarding a user in the event the user selects to browse to a web page that does not fall within a predetermined content network in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process is similar to the process shown in . The process shown in involves the user browsing outside a predetermined content network. The decision to browse outside the network does not involve the payment of money to the search engine provider however the process does check to see whether the user has authorized tracking. If the user has authorized tracking then the process adds information concerning the browsing activity to the user s account and potentially provides the user with a reward as an incentive for allowing tracking of the user s browsing behavior. In many embodiments the information collected is used often in combination with other information to select the awards that are allocated to the user. In the event that tracking is not enabled then the system can remind the user that benefits can be derived by enabling tracking.

Tracking and rewards systems can generally track user browsing behavior i.e. browsing between sites that may or may not form part of a content network . A process for tracking and rewarding general browsing behavior is shown in . The process is similar to the process shown in with the exception that the process typically does not involve the selection of the advertisements that are displayed to the user. The process simply involves tracking as the user visits sites and interacts with the sites. In a number of embodiments the user s client application includes the ability to display advertising separate from the content provided by sites visited by the user. Revenue derived from advertising can be used in the allocation of rewards to the user. The advertising displayed can be selected based upon the content viewed in the browser the browsing context the user s browsing history and or any other basis.

Although specific processes are outlined above for tracking the activities of a user and for allocating rewards other processes in accordance with embodiments of the invention can be used to record interactions that a user has with sites and or allocate rewards that may or may not be directly related to revenue derived as a result of the user s activities.

Much of the discussion above involves the utilization of the capabilities of a rewards management server. A rewards management server connected to a pair of storage devices and is shown in . The rewards management server hosts a rewards management system. The rewards management server tracks user behavior and allocates rewards according to the behavior and the user s preferences. The rewards management server can receive a variety of information as inputs. In one embodiment the rewards management server receives as inputs information including a user s current search request a user s real time click throughs a user s real time browsing real time cost per impression or cost per thousand impressions cost per mille CPM information for site targeted advertising real time cost per click through or cost per click CPC information and or cost per action CPA information for keyword targeted advertising and or context targeted advertising real time cost per impression or cost per thousand impressions cost per mille CPM information for keyword targeted advertising offers from advertisers and or vendors and real time exchange parameters for point vs. cash vs. offer rewards. In response to various inputs a rewards management server can generate an output that provides optimized rewards and offers for the user.

In order for the rewards management system to process the inputs and allocate rewards the rewards management system stores a variety of information on one or more storage devices. In the illustrated embodiment the rewards management server is connected to two storage devices. A first storage device is used by the rewards management system to store information concerning user preferences. In many embodiments the stored information includes whether tracking is enabled selected and approved data usage user reward accounts linked for disbursement of rewards other user accounts or completed profiles linked to facilitate information transfer and access as authorized by the user address information and demographic information.

A second storage device is used by the rewards management system to store tracking data. In a number of embodiments the stored tracking data includes historical searches historical click throughs age specified or inferred location history browsing history income level specified or inferred education level specified or inferred career or profession specified or inferred employer and employment history schools or universities attended historical transactions buying habits group memberships relationship information and preferences specified or inferred hobbies subscriptions preferred vendors favorite movies favorite books languages residence address and or travel destinations and other information. In several embodiments when the user does not specify user data or information the system assigns a specific probability distribution on the inferred information and updates such probability distribution as new data becomes available from user s browsing or search activity or user specified information. In other embodiments any tracked data and or profile data considered useful by the operator or the rewards management server can be stored in any of a variety configurations.

In addition to allocating rewards historical information collected concerning a user s search and browsing history can be used to refine search results provided to the user by the search engine. A process for refining search results using historical information in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process includes conducting a search which results in the generation of a set of initial search results. A determination can then be made as to whether the user has enabled tracking. If the user has not enabled tracking then a reminder message can be provided a periodic reminder set or a reminder counter incremented. When tracking is enabled user data is retrieved and information concerning the current search is added to the user data. The historical information can then be used to refine the search results. Once the results are refined relevant advertisements can be selected and displayed with the search results to the user. The display of advertisements can result in the accrual of revenue from advertisers. A determination can then be made as to whether the user has enabled tracking many systems rely on the first determination . If the user has disabled tracking then the user can be provided with a reminder. When tracking is enabled various rewards associated with the user s activities can be calculated and used to update the user s account.

The manner in which a stored user profile search history and or browsing history can be used to refine search results can be illustrated by example. In many embodiments the search engine categorizes search results by categories in addition to the search terms. The correlation between the categories and subjects that are likely to be of interest to the user and or which have historically been of interest to the user is then determined and those categories with the highest correlation are presented to the user with an increased ranking. A number of examples are presented below.

If a user submits a search request using the terms site monitoring the system would generate the initial search results and check if the user has enabled tracking of searches and uses by the user the system accesses the stored user information including browsing history historical searches and click throughs current location time career or profession historical transactions and other stored data to provide more context for the search request and refine the search results. If for instance the profession of the user specified or inferred is in the construction industry or a related industry and or recent historical searches include the terms construction site or construction more relevance weighting is assigned to search results related to construction site monitoring . In this example if however the profession of the user specified or inferred is in the information technology industry or in related industries and or recent historical searches included web security or web monitoring then more relevance weighting is assigned to search results related to web site monitoring . The system then refines the search results accordingly and selects advertisements to be displayed based upon triggered the refined search results.

In several embodiments the system would aggregate search results under the key relevant headings in decreasing level of relevance starting with the most relevant heading in the example used above based on the resulting refinements if search results related to construction site monitoring have the highest relevance the heading site monitoring construction appears first with a few initial sub headings the remaining sub headings can be further displayed if the user clicks on the heading followed by the next relevant heading site monitoring web and its related sub headings and so on and so forth. The word s in brackets provide the context for generated search results under a specific heading.

Another example is a search request by a user using the terms development plan the system would generate the initial search results and check if the user has enabled tracking of searches and uses by the user the system accesses the stored user information including browsing history historical searches and click throughs career or profession historical transactions and other stored data to provide more context for the search request and refine the search results. If for instance recent historical searches included development coaching or professional development or personal development then the system would assign more relevance weighting to professional development plan or personal development plan accordingly. If however the stored data indicate that the profession of the user specified or inferred is in government or is related to economic development and or recent historical searches include economic plan or economic development or incentives then the system would give more relevance weighting to search results related to economic development plan . If on the other hand the stored data indicate that the profession of the user specified or inferred is in the healthcare industry or in the pharmaceuticals industry or related fields and or recent searches include clinical trials or efficacy or clinical safety then the system would give more relevance weighting to search results related to clinical development plan . The system then refines the search results accordingly and selects the advertisements triggered by the refined search results to be displayed.

Similarly the system would make use of stored data including historical searches time of day historical locations of the user current location as available and other stored information to refine the search results for search requests using the terms traffic report and assigning relevance to various contextual categories of search results related to traffic report including internet traffic report or current location traffic report or website traffic report etc.

If the user has disabled tracking or if the stored data does not provide any helpful information to assign relevance weighting to specific search results for refining the initial search results then the system would display the initial search results together with the selected advertisements triggered by the initial search results.

A process similar to the process shown in for refining search results in response to previous search and browsing activity of a user in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process shown in includes rewarding a user for clicking through advertising. The process is similar to the process shown in . When search results and advertisements are displayed to a user the user can select an advertisement. The selection can result in the accrual of advertising revenue. The system then determines whether tracking has been disabled. If the tracking has been disabled then the user can be provided with a reminder to enable tracking to obtain rewards. When tracking is enabled the user s data is retrieved and updated to reflect the search results and or browsing activity. The information concerning the search and browsing activity can then be used to calculate rewards and the user s data is updated to reflect any additional rewards.

A process similar to the process shown in for refining search results in response to previous search and browsing activity of a user and allocating rewards to the user in response to the user browsing to a page within a content network in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process shown in includes rewarding a user for browsing to a page within a content network. The process is similar to the process shown in . When search results and advertisements are displayed to a user the user can perform any of a predetermined set of actions with respect to a site within a content network see discussion above . The action can result in the accrual of revenue from advertisers and or other sources. The system then determines whether tracking has been disabled. If the tracking has been disabled then the user can be provided with a reminder to enable tracking to obtain rewards. When tracking is enabled the user s data is retrieved and updated to reflect the search results and or browsing activity and or current location time of day and other available data. The information concerning the search and browsing activity in addition to the stored data can then be used to calculate rewards and the user s data is updated to reflect any additional rewards.

A specific example of an application for tracking and rewards systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention is the use of tracking and rewards systems by mobile phone service providers. As discussed above a client can be a mobile device. The tracking and reward system can be used to track usage of the mobile device for voice data or other communications and to reward users with various rewards as described above. The tracking and reward system can be used to track sites visited by subscribers to a mobile service and to reward users with benefits such as free minutes free SMS messages free MMS messages handset upgrades and or benefits unrelated to the provision of mobile phone services such as frequent flier miles or other types of rewards. In addition to tracking sites visited by a mobile device tracking and rewards systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention can be used to track other types of transactions. Uses of tracking and rewards systems in mobile networks in accordance with embodiments of the invention are discussed further below.

A mobile network that includes a rewards management server in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The system includes a plurality of mobile devices that can connect to one or more mobile communications networks . The mobile communications networks can provide gateways to other networks. In the illustrated embodiment the mobile communications network provides gateways to the public switched telephone network PSTN and to the Internet . Mobile devices can conduct voice calls via the mobile communications network and the PSTN. Mobile devices can exchange data with sites via the mobile communications network and the Internet.

The mobile communications network is also connected to a rewards management server . In the illustrated embodiment the rewards management server includes a plurality of servers that are connected to a database . The rewards management server can be integrated into a mobile telephone service provider s billing system or be separate from the billing system. The rewards management server can be used in a manner similar to that outlined above to track a user s search activities sites visited by the user and actions performed by the user. In addition to tracking the system can allocate rewards based upon tracked user behavior. In a number of embodiments the user creates a user profile or is granted a user profile by the mobile phone service provider and the user can populate the profile with information see discussion above . In several embodiments the user can control when and the type of information that is tracked. In a number of embodiments the user is able to communicate with the rewards management server via the user s mobile device . In many embodiments the user is able to communicate with the rewards management server via a site accessible by any device capable of connecting to the Internet. A similar process can be used to track and reward a user browsing between websites that do not form part of a content network.

A process for tracking activities performed using a mobile telephone in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process includes initiating a communication. The communication is enabled and the communication is completed . The communication can be any type of communication. For example a telephone call an SMS text message an MMS message an email and or a data transfer. A user billing account associated with the mobile phone is updated and or decision is made as to whether the user has signed up for the rewards program. If the user has signed up and or the user has activated tracking then the user s reward account is updated . If the user has not created an account and or has not activated tracking then the user can be provided with a periodic reminder to encourage the use of the rewards program.

In many embodiments goods and services can be purchased using the mobile device and or other types of transactions can be conducted using the mobile device including purchases of goods or services subscription to services payment transactions financial transactions and transaction associated with rewards programs . A process for tracking the conduct of transactions and providing rewards in direct response to the completion of predetermined transactions in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown in . The process includes initiating a transaction using a mobile device which is then enabled by the network operator. Where the transaction involves a service provided by the network operator enabling the transaction may simply involve activating the service. In embodiments where the transaction involves goods and or services provided by a 3party the network operator can facilitate the transaction. The completion of the transaction is reported to the user and to the extent the transaction involves payment of money the user s billing account is updated to reflect the cost of the transaction. In other embodiments other accounts such as accounts maintained by financial institutions or institutions that provide other payment technologies are updated. A determination is made as to whether the user has a rewards account and has authorized tracking with respect to a category that includes the transaction. When the user has authorized tracking of the transaction the user s rewards account is updated to reflect the transaction. When the user has not created an account and or has not authorized the tracking of rewards then the user can be periodically reminded of the opportunity to create a rewards account.

While the above description contains many specific embodiments of the invention these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention but rather as an example of one embodiment thereof. For example the above discussion focuses on awarding rewards for searching and browsing content networks and or various sites located throughout the Internet. Several embodiments of the invention encourage users to access a web site by providing users with rewards for browsing content and or performing searches for content located within a specific site. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined not by the embodiments illustrated but by the appended claims and their equivalents.

