---

title: Propulsion system, opposing grains rocket engine, and method for controlling the burn rate of solid propellant grains
abstract: A solid propellant thrust control system, method, and apparatus for controlling combustion of solid propellants in an opposing grains solid propellant rocket engine (OGRE) is provided. In particular, an opposing grains rocket engine and propulsion system is provided, in which actuator means connected are connected to solid propellant grains disposed in the pressure vessel of the engine. The actuator means are operable to selectively move the solid propellant grains together or apart relative to one another, such that the burning ends of the solid propellant grains decrease or increase relative to one another. This action controls the rate of combustion of the solid propellant grains by varying spacing distance between the burning ends of the solid propellant grains, and enables extinguishment and reignition of the OGRE. Further, a method is providing for controlling the burn rate of solid propellant grains undergoing combustion in an opposing grains rocket engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051640&OS=08051640&RS=08051640
owner: 
number: 08051640
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080509
---
This invention was in part made with government support under contracts FA9453 04 C 0315 and HQ0006 07 C 7726 awarded by the Missile Defense Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates in general to solid propellant rocket motors and gas generators in solid propellant rockets and more particularly to a solid propellant thrust control system method and apparatus for controlling combustion of solid propellants in an opposing grains rocket engine OGRE .

Solid rockets have traditionally been extremely difficult to control in terms of precision throttleability and response time. Traditional methods of control have used large heavy hot gas valves which limit the rocket to lower performing low condensed phase particulate cool burning propellants. These methods control the burning or mass evolution rate by changing the chamber pressure which in turn varies the standoff distance of the flame zone 1 2 mm from the solid propellant surface. This in turn varies the heat feedback and hence the recession rate of the propellant see Fundamentals of Solid Propellant Combustion Kenneth K. Kuo Martin Summerfield Vol. 90 p. 891 October 1984 Amer Inst of Astronautics Aeronautics .

Further combustion control using valves is limited by the high temperature capability of the construction materials which in turn often requires the use of lower temperature propellants having lower performance. In addition the valves add complexity require significant development time increase weight cost and electric power consumption while decreasing system reliability. Valves also require cleaner lower performing propellant gases as compared to higher performing propellants using metals and metal hydrides that produce condensed phase oxide combustion products.

In addition to the above deficiencies of valves to control combustion unlike the present invention hot gas valves are incapable of enabling multiple cycles of extinguishment and reignition. In particular when using hot gas valves to control combustion a new pyrotechnic igniter must be provided for each ignition event as each pyrotechnic igniter is destroyed during said event. Thus a mechanism for insertion of a new pyrotechnic igniter must further be provided thereby adding to the cost and complexity of the system.

Further conventional methods used to control solid rocket combustion include changing the throat vent area of the motor with a hot gas valve or pulsing the burning by inhibiting and then igniting new propellant burn area. Energy management of solid rockets is sometimes achieved by sudden depressurization of the chamber by opening vent holes or valves.

Another alternative controllable rocket engine is an OGRE opposing grains rocket engine . In such OGRE engines solid propellants may be extinguished by creating a sudden imbalance in the heat feedback from the flame zone a few hundred microns above the propellant surface and the unburned propellant a few hundred microns below the surface engines. This transient condition is typically created by suddenly venting the solid rocket motor combustion chamber gas creating a depressurization condition known as dp dt. Typical propellants such as the OGRE compositions operating at a chamber pressure of 1 000 psia are extinguished at a negative dp dt of about 165 000 psi sec as shown in see Kenneth K. Kuo Martin Summerfield Fundamentals of Solid Propellant Combustion Vol. 90 pp. 661 732 October 1984 Amer Inst of Astronautics Aeronautics .

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a system and apparatus capable of controlling the thrust of a solid propellant rocket engine on command without the use of conventional large heavy valves.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system and apparatus capable of generating hot gases on command without the use of conventional heavy valves.

It is yet a further object to provide an opposing grain rocket engine capable of achieving the above objects.

After considerable experimentation and development the present inventors developed a novel propulsion system in particular an opposing grain rocket engine OGRE which is capable of directly controlling the burning rate of the propellant upon command by physically controlling the height of the flame zone through precision movement of burning ends of opposing grains of propellant material over a range of a few millimeters. Such a propulsion system is not limited to the application of a rocket engine but rather may be utilized more generally as a gas generator in various mechanical industrial applications. It is well known that extinguishment occurs if the flame zone is rapidly dispersed. Classically this is done by dp dt i.e. changing pressure over time. In contrast with the OGRE of the present invention extinguishment can be effected by sudden retraction dv dt .

Namely the present inventors unexpectedly discovered that physically collapsing the flame zone produces the same effect as a pressure rise for a given base rate. The base rate can also be changed several fold with catalysts and exothermic fuels such as metals. Some experimental tests conducted by the present inventors have demonstrated that this can produce up to a 30 40 fold rate change or turndown ratio. In fact an infinite turndown ratio was experimentally demonstrated i.e. the system and apparatus of the present invention was applied to produce full thrust in a rocket engine extinguish the rocket engine reignite the rocket engine and produce full thrust again.

In particular for OGRE extinguishment the same transient extinguishment conditions as pressure rise were produced by a rapid retraction of the opposed grains causing a sudden change in combustion zone volume by dv dt. In one experiment the present inventors determined that a relative grain retraction rate sufficient to cause extinguishment at a constant burning surface area was 50.8 millimeters second or 50 800 microns second . This retraction rate for certain propellants causes the flame zone to increase about forty fold in thickness in a second thus nearly instantaneously disbursing its energy to one fortieth of its steady state content and resulting in extinguishment.

Further the present inventors discovered that with the proper tailoring of propellant pairs forming the combustion gap that either a Proportionally Controlled PC or a Pulse Duration Modulation PDM solid propellant engine can be built. Moreover the present invention discovered that the burning rate could be controlled by shaping the propellant grain surface in order to have more surface area. For example in a preferred embodiment one propellant grain may be shaped like a male cone and an opposing fuel grain as a female cone.

In the PC solid propellant engine the mass flow rate or thrust can be controlled by linearly opening up the combustion gap and linearly reducing the propellant burning rate due to a reduction in heat feed back. The thrust can be reduced to a very low level or zero and the engine is similarly powered up by closing the gap. In the PDM mode the burning is extinguished by suddenly closing the gap to zero whereupon the remaining gaseous products are vented and combustion is resumed by withdrawing the grains and reigniting either from residual heat or a pilot light system.

In a general embodiment of the present invention the propellant combustion gases are trapped in an extremely narrow 0 2 mm gap between two moveable walls of propellant thereby modulating its heat feedback to the burning surface of the propellant. Employing the process of the present invention enables the use of 

Accordingly in a first preferred embodiment of the present invention a propulsion system which can also be utilized as a gas generator is provided comprising 

 c propellant slidably disposed within the interior of the pressure vessel said propellant comprising at least two discrete solid propellant grains positioned in an end to end spaced relationship and being movable relative to one another and

 d one or more actuator means connected to said solid propellant grains said actuator means being operable to selectively move burning ends of solid propellant grains relative to one another whereby to control rate of combustion of the solid propellant grains by varying spacing distance between the burning ends of the solid propellant grains.

In a second preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided which can be throttled up by moving the burning ends of the solid propellant grains closer together whereby to increase erosive burning and increase pressure of combustion gases inside the pressure vessel.

In a third preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided which can be throttled down and or extinguished by moving the burning ends of the solid propellant grains further apart thereby decreasing or eliminating erosive burning and decreasing pressure of combustion gases inside the engine.

In a fourth preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided further having an actuator means which is connected to each solid propellant grain said actuator means being operable to simultaneously slide a plurality of the solid propellant grains relative to one another within the pressure vessel whereby to vary spacing between the burning ends of the solid propellant grains.

In a fifth preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided having an actuator means which is responsive to temperature and or pressure of combustion gases in the engine.

In a sixth preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided having two solid propellant grains slidably disposed inside the interior of the pressure vessel and actuator means connected to each of the solid propellant grains to effect sliding movement of the solid propellant grains.

In a seventh embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment is provided wherein one propellant grain is shaped like a male cone and an opposing fuel grain as a female cone. This provides an increase in burning surface area for a given space and allows further control of the burning rate of the propellants.

In an eighth embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided wherein at least one propellant grain is oxidizer rich and at least one propellant grain is fuel rich. In this preferred embodiment the OGRE effect is obtained regardless of the fact that the propellant grains are fuel rich or are oxidizer rich.

In a ninth embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided wherein at least one propellant grain is comprised of a nitramine such as RDX and or HMX and at least one other propellant grain is comprised of ammonium perchlorate AP . In such preferred embodiment the propellant grain comprising AP decomposes into perchloric acid and ammonia and the propellant grain comprising RDX and or HMX decomposes into nitrogen dioxide and formaldehyde. The oxidizing species from each propellant grain have an affinity for the decomposition products of the opposing grain. This type of combustion environment provides great environment for rapid and effective combustion of metal fuels.

In a tenth embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided wherein the propellant grains are formulated to be standard stoichiometrically formulations.

In an eleventh preferred embodiment of the present invention an opposing grains rocket engine is provided comprising 

 d one or more actuator means operable to move the two opposed solid propellant grains relative to one another in the pressure vessel whereby to vary spacing between burning ends of the solid propellant grains.

In a twelfth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided wherein the one or more actuator means is are operable to throttle up the engine by sliding closer together the two opposed solid propellant grains so as to decrease spacing between the burning ends of the solid propellant grains and increase erosive burning and the pressure of combustion gases in the engine.

In a thirteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided wherein the one or more actuator means is are operable to throttle down or extinguish combustion in the engine by sliding further apart the solid propellant grains whereby to increase spacing between the burning ends of the solid propellant grains and decrease erosive burning and pressure of combustion gases in the engine. In a most preferred embodiment the opposing grains are moved apart relatively rapidly apart. For example when the opposing grains are moved apart at a rate of about 50 000 microns sec. so as to cause the opposing grains having an initial gap of 1 500 microns to move apart so as to have a gap therebetween of about 12 000 microns combustion is extinguished. Some OGRE propellant combinations will burn on their own if pulled apart slowly but will extinguish if pulled apart rapidly. Rapid withdrawal of the grains literally lifts the burning flame structure right off of the surface of the propellant leading to extinguishment.

In a fourteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the propulsion system of the first embodiment above is provided wherein the rocket nozzle is positioned at about a center of gravity of the engine and the one or more actuator means is are operable to move the two opposed solid propellant grains toward the center of gravity as the solid propellant grains are consumed so as to maintain constant the center of gravity of the engine.

In a fifteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided wherein as the two opposed solid propellant grains are consumed their burning ends are moved toward one another at a rate approximating the combustion of the solid propellant grains thus maintaining constant the center of gravity of the rocket engine.

In a sixteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided further having a pyrotechnic igniter disposed adjacent the solid propellant grains whereby to initiate ignition of solid propellant grains.

In a seventeenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided having an elongated fuel rich solid propellant grain with a first end and a second end opposite the first end positioned at about a center of gravity of the engine oxidizer rich solid propellant grains positioned adjacent each end of the fuel rich solid propellant grain in an end to end relationship and the one or more actuator means operable to move the burning ends of both oxidizer rich solid propellant grains relative to the burning ends of the fuel rich solid propellant grain.

In an eighteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention the opposing grains rocket engine of the eleventh embodiment above is provided having a means for equalizing pressure within the pressure vessel via facilitation of flow of combustion gases. The present inventors unexpectedly discovered that equalized pressure greatly reduces the force required from the actuator. Further the smaller the actuator force required to move the opposing solid propellant grains the smaller and lighter the actuator required. Moreover the smaller the actuator required the lower the power required to operate the actuator thereby providing longer operating time or a smaller lighter battery.

Accordingly in a more preferred embodiment according to the seventeenth embodiment above one or more pipes are provided within adjacent and or in communication with the pressure vessel said pipes operable to allow flow of combustion gases within the pressure vessel. In another more preferred embodiment a void space is provided between an interior side wall of the pressure vessel and the solid propellant grains whereby to facilitate flow of combustion gases and equalization of pressure in the engine. Equalizing pressure is important as it greatly reduces the force required by the actuator to move the propellant grains. The smaller the actuator force needed the smaller lighter actuator is needed. The smaller the actuator the lower the power required. This gives either longer operating time or a smaller lighter battery.

In a nineteenth preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for controlling the burn rate of solid propellant grains undergoing combustion in an opposing grains rocket engine in which combustion gases from burning propellant grains are discharged through a rocket nozzle connected to the rocket engine the method comprising 

moving burning surfaces of at least two discreet solid propellant grains relative to one another to vary a distance or spacing between burning ends of the solid propellant grains thereby adjusting the rate of burning of the solid propellant grains.

In an twentieth preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for throttling up the burn rate of solid propellant grains undergoing combustion in an opposing grains rocket engine by moving burning ends of the solid propellant grains closer together whereby to increase erosive burning and heat flux to burning surfaces and effect an increase in pressure of combustion gases in the engine.

In a twenty first preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for throttling down the burn rate of solid propellant grains undergoing combustion in an opposing grains rocket engine by moving burning ends of the solid propellant grains farther apart whereby to decrease erosive burning and heat flux and decreasing pressure of combustion gases in the engine.

In a twenty second preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for extinguishing combustion of solid propellant grains in the rocket engine by moving further apart burning ends of the discreet solid propellant grains. In a most preferred embodiment the opposing grains are moved apart relatively rapidly apart. For example when the opposing grains are moved apart at a rate of about 50 000 microns sec. so as to cause the opposing grains to have an initial gap of 1 500 microns have a gap therebetween of about 12 000 microns combustion is extinguished.

Some OGRE propellant combinations will burn on their own if pulled apart slowly but will extinguish if pulled apart rapidly. Rapid withdrawal of the grains causes a sudden increase of the flame zone volume with time and literally lifts the burning flame structure right off of the surface of the propellant leading to thermal imbalance and extinguishment. Propellant grains that are moved rapidly to extinguish same are those that stoichiometrically balanced. An example of such a composition is a formulation of 88 ammonium perchlorate AP and the balance thereof a binder such as HTPB hydroxyl terminated polybutadiene . An example of a propellant grain that requires rapid separation of the two or more propellant grains to extinguish combustion is a composite solid propellant based on ammonium perchlorate strontium nitrate magnesium aluminum and hydroxy terminated polybutadiene i.e. oxidizer rich and fuel rich .

In a twenty third preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for moving ends of opposed solid propellant grains relative to one another by actuator means connected to the solid propellant grains.

In a twenty fourth preferred embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for maintaining approximately constant the center of gravity of an opposing grains rocket engine during operation by moving opposed solid propellant grains with actuator means toward a center of gravity of the rocket engine whereby to maintain approximately constant the center of gravity of the engine during burning and consumption of the solid propellant grains.

The basic configuration of an opposing grains rocket engine OGRE of the present invention shown generally at in consists of an outer rocket casing or pressure vessel containing two separate and discrete solid propellant grains and . To each of the solid propellant grains and is attached an actuator and respectively to move the propellant grains with respect to one another i.e. to extend or retract the solid propellants in a controlled manner to vary the spacing between burning ends and to effect a controlled rate of burn. By controlling gap between burning ends and of propellant grains and the rate of combustion of propellant grains and and resultant discharge of propellant gases from a nozzle can be controlled.

Although illustrates the use of two opposing propellant grains the number of propellant grains used in the opposing grains rocket engine of the present invention is not limited to two. For example a rocket engine used in a divert and attitude control system thruster such as illustrated in comprises three discrete propellant grains having two separate combustion zones. In a preferred embodiment the middle propellant grain is fuel rich and the side grains are oxidizer rich.

An important aspect of the present invention is manipulating the flame zone. This is achieved by the present invention in various ways including the moving of the opposing grains via actuators. The present inventors conducted various tests of the performance of the OGRE of the present invention using for example the prototype shown in and the prototype shown in . In particular the prototype thruster included two ball screw actuators and in connection with propellant grains and respectively so as to be capable of moving same. These propellant grains and were encased in the combustion chamber . Upon initiation burning the propellant gases were expelled into the post combustion chamber and through the nozzle .

As illustrated in the OGRE prototype thruster included a pressure transducer a thermocouple and a linear variable displacement transducer . Through the use and testing of such prototype among various other discoveries the present inventors discovered that the burn rate of the propellant grains may be controlled by manipulating the surface area thereof i.e. forming the propellant grains in various configurations so as to control the burn rate of propellant.

For example as illustrated in one propellant grain may be provided in the shape of a male cone and an opposing fuel grain may be provided in the shape of a female cone . However a multitude of propellant grain shapes may be utilized so as to manipulate the surface area and accordingly the burning surface and burn rate of the opposing propellant grains. This preferred embodiment allows further control of the burning rate of the propellants.

In an OGRE based system of the present invention the mechanical action of bringing burning ends of solid propellant into close physical proximity has the same effect as increasing chamber pressure. That is the various zones of the combustion process are compressed closer to the burning surface. In addition the radiant thermal energy and elements of chemistry of one grain will interact with the opposing grain in this narrow gap. In this condition the propellant mass generation rate begins to approach the maximum dictated by the combustion enthalpy of the formulation. In effect this is the burn rate that would be achieved at infinite chamber pressure. It represents the maximum high throttle point of the system.

There are other physical effects which help to increase the burn rate sensitivity and performance of the OGRE system. One such effect is erosive burning which takes place when the Mach number of gases flowing over the surface of a solid propellant grain increases to high levels. This high speed flow has the effect of greatly accelerating the burn rate of the solid propellant. The effective burn rate of the propellant becomes the sum of the typical burn rate at a given chamber pressure plus the mass of propellant being eroded from the surface by the effects of the high speed gas flow.

Erosive burning is an important aspect of OGRE solid rockets. This is due to the fact that as the two propellant grains in an OGRE rocket come together a narrow gap is created and filled with hot combusting gases. These hot combusting gases will immediately begin flowing towards the rocket s nozzle. This environment generally creates sonic or near sonic gas flow thus leading to erosive burning with its consequent increase in burning rate.

The exact physics of erosive burning of a solid propellant is still in dispute. However it seems clear that erosive burning will have a greater effect on the oxidizer rich propellant grains used in OGRE rocket motors than it will on the fuel rich grains. This is fortuitous because the majority of the mass that needs to be generated during combustion comes from these oxidizer rich propellant grains.

These propellant grains can be moved closer or further away from each other by actuators and . Moving the propellant grains closer together generally has the effect of throttling up or increasing the rate of combustion burn rate of solid propellants and . The end burning grains are pushed towards the center of the motor as the propellant is consumed. This has two primary advantages. First it keeps the combustion event adjacent the thruster nozzle . Second it allows the system to maintain constant its center of gravity at the centerline of the thrust.

There are two approaches to energy management in an OGRE thruster. The thruster can be throttled down or it can operate according to pulsing a rapid extinguishment reignition duty cycle . The approach used on a given system will be dictated by the requirements of the mission. When it is desired to throttle the system down opposing grains and can be moved further apart. This results in a reduction of the infinite chamber pressure like condition and hence a reduction in the burn rate. The reduced burn rate results in reduced chamber pressure thus lowering the burn rate further. The motor will then throttle down to its new operating equilibrium.

As discussed above it is well known that solid propellants will extinguish if the flame zone is rapidly dispersed. This is classically achieved by rapid depressurization of the combustion chamber which tends to lift the combustion process up off of the burning surface i.e. the burning end of the propellant grains causing the combustion process to cool and extinguish. In a similar manner the OGRE motor of the present invention achieves the same results by rapidly moving the opposing grains and away from one another. The present inventors discovered that rapid reignition of the extinguished propellant grains is possible when using the OGRE of the present invention as long as a given maximum dwell time is not exceeded.

In a preferred embodiment a case bonded fuel rich propellant grain shown in as mentioned briefly above is disposed in the center of the rocket motor directly below or above the nozzle . Oxidizer rich propellant grains and are divided into two parts one disposed on the left side and one disposed on the right side of the motor as shown in . The oxidizer rich grains are actuated toward the fixed fuel rich grain in the center of motor . This doubles the burning surface area with one combustion zone on the left side of the fuel rich propellant grain and a second on the right side of the fuel rich propellant grain . Actuators and are used to move propellant grains respectively.

Equalizing pressure is important in OGRE rocket engines as it greatly reduces the force required by the actuator to move the propellant grains. The smaller the actuator force needed the smaller lighter actuator is needed. The smaller the actuator the lower the power required. This gives either longer operating time or a smaller lighter battery. illustrates a preferred embodiment in which propellant grains indicated generally at have a flattened top surface . The flattening of the top surface of the propellant grains provides a void space for gas flow and pressure equalization during the combustion process. Such a propellant grain may be utilized in any variation of the OGRE of the present invention.

As shown in another pressure equalization means includes the provision of pipes to enable the flow of combustion gases for equalizing pressure within the pressure vessel via facilitation of flow of combustion gases. In particular one or more pipes are provided within adjacent and or in communication with the pressure vessel . These pipes allow the flow of combustion gases within the pressure vessel.

Conventional controllable solid rocket motor technologies such as pintles and hot gas valves typically require significant compromises with respect to solid propellant composition and performance. Propellants are typically formulated with low flame temperatures and low erosive properties. For example low performance solid oxidizers such as ammonium nitrate and even lower performing oxidizers are used instead of industry state of the art oxidizers such as ammonium perchlorate. This causes the propellant to suffer both in specific impulse and in density specific impulse performance.

Another significant limitation of conventional controllable motors is that they cannot tolerate the high temperature and erosive nature of metal fuels in the solid propellant. The addition of metal fuels such as aluminum generally can increase specific impulse in the range of about 1 20 and density specific impulse by about 6 26 .

In contrast the opposing grains rocket engine OGRE of the present invention operates successfully with even high loadings of metal fuels such as aluminum and magnesium. In addition opposing grains rocket engine technology holds the promise of facilitating superior metal combustion especially in comparison to other relatively small solid rocket motors.

A large solid rocket motor such as the Space Shuttle RSRM motor generates molten metal droplets with a nominal diameter of 180 . The metal droplets then ignite and combust with the water and carbon dioxide in the free gas stream. The oxidation process combusts the droplets at a rate of approximately 1 per millisecond of diameter of the droplets . The implication of these parameters is that 90 ms are typically required to consume the metal.

Smaller solid rocket motors often do not have sufficient residence time to fully combust metal fuels. The US Air Force Rocket Propulsion Laboratory developed a set of standard heavyweight solid rocket motors for use in research and development evaluation. These motors are the Ballistic Analog Test and Evaluation System or BATES motors. Research has shown that the 15 pound BATES motor has an 8 to 10 mS residence time and the 70 pound Bates motor has an approximately 22 mS residence time. These values can vary due to such factors as propellant burn rate and nozzle geometry.

During solid rocket propellant combustion metal droplets agglomerate and then leave the surface of the solid propellant as a large drop. During their travel the metal droplets are converted to metal oxide drops. The droplets then reach a maximum stable drop size. The maximum stable drop size is driven by the conditions inside the motor. The gas dynamic drag and shear forces in the accelerating gas field try to shred the droplets while the van der Waals forces internal to the droplet try to hold it together. Under this stress the droplets will shear down to a size that is stable in a given environment. In general 1 of droplet diameter has been seen for every inch of nozzle throat diameter. It is also generally observed that the resulting metal oxide droplet diameter is typically 70 of the parent metal droplet.

Another challenge associated with metal fuels and solid rocket motors is that of two phase flow losses. A typical metallized solid rocket motor contains about 20 metal aluminum fuel. The combustion of this fuel will typically result in 32 by weight moles per 100 grams at the throat of the combustion products being metal oxide AlO .

The metal oxide is known as a condensable . Most solid rocket motor combustion products leave the rocket as a gas. Metal fuels combust to metal oxides such as AlO that exist as liquid droplets inside the rocket motor and condense to solid particles upon cooling. 20 of the metal oxide condensables form large coarse oxide droplets. The remaining 80 will be smoke 1 to 1.5 in diameter .

These large coarse metal oxide droplets are the primary cause of two phase flow losses in solid rocket motors. Two phase flow losses reduce the specific impulse of the rocket motor due to the thermal and velocity lag resulting from a mixed flow of liquid droplets and combustion gases. The surface to volume ratio of the large coarse droplets is such that there is insufficient time to transfer the thermal energy from the interior of the droplet to the surrounding gas. Thus the motor does not fully benefit from the energy generated by metal combustion.

A second source of loss is the gas dynamic drag of the large droplets on the flow of the combustion gases. Molten metal oxide does not behave according to perfect gas laws. Therefore it does not expand and accelerate in the nozzle. Hence the only mechanism for accelerating the metal oxide droplets is the transfer of momentum from the gases that surround it. In other words in order for the metal oxide droplets to accelerate the bulk combustion gases must decelerate.

Two phase flow losses can have a significant effect on motor performance. Air Force Rocket Propulsion Laboratory research has shown that a solid rocket motor will lose 1 of specific impulse Isp performance for every 5 mass of aluminum that is added to the propellant. Since a typical metallized solid rocket motor today contains 20 aluminum by mass this translates into a 4 loss of specific impulse.

Two phase flow losses are even larger in smaller size solid rocket motors. This is due to the acceleration profile in the nozzle. All rocket nozzles are sonic i.e. Mach number equal to one or above at the throat. However larger rocket nozzles accelerate the flow over the course of as much as 10 feet while smaller motors do the same in only a few inches. The larger rocket motors accelerate the two phase flow over a longer period of time and hence can do so much more efficiently and consequently suffer fewer losses.

When the metal oxide droplet is 1.5 or smaller in diameter it changes the situation significantly. These small droplets transfer heat much more effectively due to a more favorable surface to volume ratio. At a diameter of 1 the droplet begins to behave more like a gas i.e. it will accelerate efficiently and cause little in the way of two phase flow losses.

When OGRE solid propellant grains come together there is a very small gap on the order of 1 mm between opposing grains. The gas dynamic flow in this gap is at or near the sonic condition i.e. Mach number equal to 1 with a velocity of about 3 000 feet per second. This high speed flow in a gap produces small metal and metal oxide droplets. This is due to the fact that the droplets are sheared in the violent high speed flow in the gap. According to the present invention a large percentage of the metal oxide droplets in opposing grains rocket engine rockets will be of a small size that facilitates high combustion efficiency and heat transfer while minimizing two flow flow losses.

In a preferred embodiment the opposing grains rocket engine thruster can use the industry standard propellant consisting of ammonium perchlorate aluminum hydroxy terminated polybutadiene AP Al HTPB . When the thruster was tested with both propellant grains consisting of this type of propellant controllability was clearly achieved.

In another preferred embodiment one of the propellant grains is formulated to be oxidizer rich and the other to be fuel rich thereby providing a very safe and high performance approach to opposing grains rocket engine technology. Safety was improved because unlike conventional solid propellants neither the oxidizer rich nor the fuel rich grain can burn vigorously if ignited in isolation. It is only when these two grains are brought in close physical proximity that they burn vigorously.

In yet another preferred embodiment an oxidizer rich propellant grain is used in the OGRE thruster of the present invention. These oxidizer rich propellant grains can be fabricated by pressing ammonium perchlorate AP in a fluorocarbon binder. This approach to propellant grain fabrication has proven to be mechanically robust and ballistically effective.

In still another preferred embodiment an epoxy based binder filled with 5 magnesium fuel can be used. This approach produced a fuel grain with excellent mechanical properties. A number of OGRE prototype thruster tests have been conducted using this fuel.

In another preferred embodiment a fuel rich propellant formulation is provided for use in the OGRE of the present invention said formulation being based on a phthalate plasticized polyvinyl chloride PVC binder filled with 5 magnesium fuel. This approach produced a fuel grain with mechanical properties that had a lower than desired modulus but was otherwise effective.

Yet another preferred embodiment uses a fuel propellant grain that consists solely of a PVC binder gumstock. This propellant combination was tested with the oxidizer rich propellant grain in an OGRE thruster of the present invention. These tests demonstrated that controllability was clearly achieved.

In a preferred general embodiment of the present invention at least one propellant grain is oxidizer rich and at least one propellant grain is fuel rich.

In another preferred embodiment the propellants are not fuel rich and oxidizer rich. Rather they are comprised of nitramines. For example one propellant grain may be comprised of RDX and another propellant grain may be comprised of ammonium perchlorate AP . In such preferred embodiment the propellant grain comprising AP decomposes into perchloric acid and ammonia and the propellant grain comprising RDX and or HMX decomposes into nitrogen dioxide and formaldehyde. The oxidizing species from each propellant grain have an affinity for the decomposition products of the opposing grain. This type of combustion environment provides great environment for rapid and effective combustion of metal fuels.

A simplest representation for the decomposition of these two oxidizers is NHClO NH HClO CH2 NNO2 3 CH2O 1.5 NO 2.25 N 

It has been observed that the cross pair reaction of the above products produces an extremely quick and energetic reaction resulting in very low pressure exponents and early release of hydroxyl radicals OH and its reaction with aluminum very close to the burning surface. The reaction pairs are as follows NH NO HO N CH2O HClO HO CO CO HCl If aluminum is present the OH readily penetrates its oxide shell and ignites it very rapidly and close to the surface of the burning solid propellant surface.

Equalizing pressure within the combustion chamber pressure vessel is important in OGRE rocket engines as it greatly reduces the force required by the actuator to move the propellant grains. The smaller the actuator force needed the smaller lighter actuator is needed and hence the lower the power required to operate the actuator. This reduction in actuator size and require power further provides longer operating time and the ability to use a smaller lighter battery.

Accordingly a means of equalizing pressure is provided by the present invention. Specifically as shown in one or more pipes may be provided within adjacent and or in communication with the pressure vessel said pipes operable to allow flow of combustion gases within the pressure vessel . In another more preferred embodiment as illustrated in a void space is provided between an interior side wall of the pressure vessel and the solid propellant grains whereby to facilitate flow of combustion gases and equalization of pressure in the engine. Equalizing pressure is important as it greatly reduces the force required by the actuator to move the propellant grains. The smaller the actuator force needed the smaller lighter actuator is needed. The smaller the actuator the lower the power required. This gives either longer operating time or a smaller lighter battery.

The prototype thruster on test bench is shown in generally at . This prototype employs two Thomson 12 VDC Performance Pak linear ball screw actuators . The thrusters are capable of moving two propellant grains independently anywhere in the combustion chamber . Hold down blocks fix the prototype on bench .

Each actuator has a stroke length of four inches and is capable of exerting 750 lbs of force. These actuators are capable of extending and retracting at a maximum rate of 1.1 inches per second. Under motor control the actuators can vary from 0 inches per second up to the stated 1.1 inches per second of travel rate. The propellant surfaces will be able to move apart or together at a rate of 2.2 inches per second.

The combustion chamber shown generally at in is centered between two actuators. Aluminum hold down blocks were fabricated to secure and center the prototype. The entire assembly was secured to a table or bench using threaded fasteners. A cross sectional view of the opposing grains rocket engine combustion chamber is shown in illustrating the details of the internal construction.

The combustion chamber was fabricated from cylindrical copper stock. The outside diameter of the chamber was 76.2 millimeters mm . The internal bore diameter was 25.4 mm and the chamber was 152.4 mm long. A recess was machined into the top of the chamber to accommodate a post combustion chamber .

Two pressure transducer ports were machined into the sides of the combustion chamber . A cross sectional view of the fully loaded combustion chamber is shown in with propellant grains . End effectors with o ring seals are connected to actuators not shown for propellant grains . The end effectors attach to the actuators in such a way that the actuator or does not impart up and down side loads to the solid propellant . This was achieved by pinning the actuator end attachment into a slot in the end effectors thus giving it room and freedom to pivot.

A post combustion chamber shown in increases the residence time of the combustion gases inside the motor before discharge from nozzle . This leads to more complete combustion and increased propulsive efficiency. The post combustion chamber had an outside diameter of 76.2 mm.

The gas flow leaves the opposing grains rocket engine gap and enters the original 12.7 mm diameter port in the primary combustion chamber. The gases then expand to the inner diameter of the post combustion chamber port 19.05 mm . The post combustion chamber port was 47.9 mm long and then tapered down to an inner diameter of 12.7 mm over a distance of 11.9 mm. This 12.7 mm inner diameter matched the entrance section of the nozzle.

National Instruments LabVIEW software was used as the basis for controlling the thruster and acquiring data on the opposing grains rocket engine prototype control system. The LabVIEW controlled opposing grains rocket engine OGRE system consists of a combination of hardware and software. In particular the hardware consisted of two Pololu SMC04 brushed motor controllers a power supply for excitation voltage a power relay which would allow the power to be cut in the event of an abort situation and control and feedback lines. The control and feedback lines terminate in a data acquisition and control system. The wires were connected to multiple differing terminal blocks installed in a National Instruments SCXI 1001 12 slot chassis.

The Pololu SMC04 had the ability to control brushed DC motors with current requirements of up to 30 amps continuous. The SMC04 had multiple controlling interfaces including a serial protocol for PC and microcontroller based applications a pulse width interface for connection to radio control equipment and an analog voltage interface for simple potentiometer control. In addition the SMC04 includes feedback alternatives which allows for closed loop control of position or speed.

The opposing grains rocket engine OGRE control software used a serial protocol interface. The software consisted of a custom Virtual Instrument VI written in LabView 8.21 . This instrument VI implemented a parser which read and parsed English like statements. Multiple statements combined to build a test script.

It was necessary to calibrate the actuator internal displacement sensors before test firing. A Penny Giles SLS190 Linear Variable Displacement Transducer LVDT identified as in is capable of greater than 0.01 mm resolution with a repeatability of 0.01 mm was employed to calibrate the LVDT. This LVDT sensor is shown to the right of the bench prototype in . As expected this sensor proved to be highly linear in output.

The objective of this test was to demonstrate repeatable automated control of an opposing grains rocket engine OGRE thruster. During this test the most successful and responsive propellant combination that had been tested to date namely an oxidizer rich grain consisting primarily of ammonium perchlorate with a perfluorcarbon based binder and a fuel rich grain consisting of a polyvinylchloride based binder with magnesium was used.

This test enabled the empirical derivation of an optimum set of control scripts for the prototype thruster. For example it was found that advancing the propellant grains too aggressively could result in a number of adverse outcomes including over pressurization of the motor motor extinguishment or even mechanical damage to the propellant grains. If the propellant grains were actuated at too slow of a rate the thruster may develop insufficient chamber pressure and a low thrust. In the final analysis sixteen preliminary tests were necessary in order to determine the right combination of actuation rate actuation time and dwell time to achieve the desired prototype thruster performance for this test.

A control script was used during this test in which the actuator advances for 70 ms causing the chamber pressure to rise. The actuator then pauses for 300 ms. At the beginning of this pause the opposing grains are in relatively close proximity. For this reason the opposing grain combust at a relatively high burning rate due to the physics of the OGRE effect. However because the actuators are no longer advancing the propellant grain surfaces regress away from one another causing a decrease in burn rate as the physical separation increases.

In this particular example one propellant grain was oxidizer rich and one propellant grain was fuel rich allowing maximum sensitivity to the OGRE effect. Thus when the propellant surfaces regress such that the surfaces are 5 mm apart the combustion extinguished altogether thus causing the chamber pressure to drop to zero. This is repeated four times to produce a train of four propulsive pulses. The system then dwells for 750 ms and then begins another train of four pulses. This process was repeated until the actuators extended past their limit for maximum throw distance as defined in the control system red line values. At that point the actuators retracted and the test was completed.

A plot of the pressure trace with respect to time is shown in . The way in which these tests were divided into a series of eight sets of pulse trains with each pulse train containing four pulses is illustrated in . This test demonstrated a chamber pressure that rose above 100 psi immediately following the ignition event. During this test the opposing grains rocket engine thruster achieved the intended results of the programmed control strip and produced 35 pulses 25 complete extinguishments and reignitions and greater than a 20 second mission time.

These results represent breakthrough levels of solid rocket motor controllability. This is especially the case since only a single pyrotechnic igniter was used for initial motor ignition. This performance is in sharp contrast to competing technologies such as pintles and hot gas valves which generally cannot reliably extinguish and when extinguished generally require another pyrotechnic igniter to reignite.

A charge of composite solid propellant was added to the ignition system in addition to the pyrogen igniter. A composite solid propellant based on ammonium perchlorate strontium nitrate magnesium aluminum and hydroxy terminated polybutadiene was selected for use as a booster charge for the opposing grains rocket engine prototype thruster ignition system. The inherent ballistics of this composite propellant would burn sufficiently hot in excess of 3 500 F. . The duration of the igniter booster charge could be controlled by the physical dimensions of the propellant grain. The thicker the propellant grain the longer it will burn.

The composite solid propellant was cut into a disk roughly the same diameter as the opposing grains rocket engine propellant grains i.e. approximately 1 inch. This composite solid propellant disc was approximately 1 mm thick. The disc was adhered to the fuel grain with a very small quantity of epoxy. The combination of a composite solid propellant booster charge and a pyrogen igniter was sandwiched between the two opposing grains rocket engine propellant grains.

As discussed above the present invention provides a solid propellant propulsion system and an opposing grains rocket engine. In addition the present invention provides various methods of controlling the burn rate igniting extinguishing and reigniting solid propellants. Importantly although specific embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed herein those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the propulsion system described above can be used in various application requiring a gas generator.

Thus the scope of the invention is not to be restricted to the specific embodiments. Furthermore it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

