---

title: Pressurized water reactor flow skirt apparatus
abstract: A pressurized water reactor vessel having a flow skirt formed from a perforated cylinder structure supported in the lower reactor vessel head at the outlet of the downcomer annulus, that channels the coolant flow through flow holes in the wall of the cylinder structure. The flow skirt is supported at a plurality of circumferentially spaced locations on the lower reactor vessel head that are not equally spaced or vertically aligned with the core barrel attachment points, and the flow skirt employs a unique arrangement of hole patterns that assure a substantially balanced pressure and flow of the coolant over the entire underside of the lower core support plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305668&OS=09305668&RS=09305668
owner: Westinghouse Electric Company LLC
number: 09305668
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080207
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC07 051D14636 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to water cooled nuclear reactors and more particularly to apparatus for improving the distribution of coolant entering the core of water cooled nuclear reactors.

The primary side of nuclear reactor power generating systems which are cooled with water under pressure comprises a closed circuit which is isolated from and in heat exchange relationship with a secondary side for the production of useful energy. The primary side comprises the reactor vessel enclosing a core internals structure that supports a plurality of fuel assemblies containing fissile material the primary circuit within heat exchange steam generators the inner volume of a pressurizer pumps and pipes for circulating pressurized water the pipes connecting each of the steam generators and pumps to the reactor vessel independently. Each of the parts of the primary side comprising a steam generator a pump and a system of pipes which are connected to the vessel form a loop of the primary side. The primary side is also connected to auxiliary circuits including a circuit for volumetric and chemical monitoring of the pressurized water. The auxiliary circuit which is arranged branching from the primary circuit makes it possible to maintain the quantity of water in the primary circuit by replenishing when required with measured quantities of water and to monitor the chemical properties of the coolant water particularly its content of boric acid which is important to the operation of the reactor.

The average temperature of the core components during full power reactor operation is approximately 580 F. 304 C. . Periodically it is necessary to shut down the reactor system for maintenance and to gain access to the interior side of the pressure vessel. During such an outage the internal components of the pressure vessel can cool to a temperature of approximately 50 F. 10 C. . The internal components of a pressure vessel typically consist of upper and lower internals. The upper internals include a control rod guide tube assembly support columns conduits for instrumentation which enter the reactor through the closure head and a fuel assembly alignment structure referred to as the upper core plate. The lower internals include a core support structure referred to as the core barrel a core shroud that sits inside the core barrel and converts the circular interior of the barrel to a stepped pattern that substantially corresponds to the perimeter profile of the fuel assemblies that constitute the core supported between the lower core support plate and the upper core support plate.

Generally the reactor vessel is cylindrical having a hemispherical lower end. The core barrel is connected to the interior walls of the reactor vessel at or adjacent to the area where the cylindrical and hemispherical portions of the reactor vessel meet. Below the main core support i.e. the core barrel that is capped at its lower end with the lower core support the hemispherical vessel defines a lower head or lower plenum. A generally annular downcomer surrounds the reactor core barrel between the core barrel and an inner wall of the reactor vessel. Cooling fluid typically water is pumped into this annular downcomer. The coolant fluid circulates downward into the lower plenum. The hemispherical shape of the lower plenum assists in evenly circulating the coolant fluid therein. A plurality of reactor core coolant inlet openings are located on the underside of the lower core support plate. Coolant flows from the lower plenum into the core coolant inlet openings and upwardly into the core to cool the fuel assemblies.

In order to maintain adequate and uniform cooling throughout the core it is important that a uniform coolant flow and pressure be maintained across all of the reactor core coolant inlet openings in the lower core support plate. Non uniform coolant pressure or flow causes uneven coolant flow into the core which results in uneven cooling of the fuel assemblies of the core. Uneven fuel assembly cooling may force the entire core to be derated to accommodate hot assembly locations. Non uniform coolant flow and pressure may result in vortices or other flow disruptions to form in the coolant fluid circulating in the lower plenum.

It is desirable to provide core monitoring instrumentation within the core of a nuclear reactor. Traditionally the leads connecting such instrumentation to the exterior of the reactor exit the reactor vessel through a central portion of the lower hemispherical portion of the reactor vessel. A plurality of conduits extending from the underside of the lower core plate to the interior walls of the lower hemispherical portion of the reactor vessel carry the instrumentation lines through the lower plenum.

The presence of the conduits in the lower plenum assists in maintaining even coolant flow within the lower plenum and disrupting the formation of vortices in the circulating coolant fluid. Such vortices disrupt coolant flow and produce low pressure areas at the core coolant inlets which they intersect.

In newer reactors it has become desirable for any instrumentation conduits to exit the reactor vessel other than through the lower plenum. It has been found that the absence of instrumentation conduits from the lower plenum permits vortices to form in the circulating coolant in the lower plenum.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 267 285 issued Nov. 30 1993 and assigned to the assignee of this invention suggested the use of one or more spaced parallel plates supported in the lower plenum parallel to the lower support plate with holes for the passage of coolant as a means to suppress vortices.

With the advent of larger passive plants with larger cores it became evident that further means were necessary to improve the distribution of coolant flow in the lower plenum to assure uniform coolant flow and pressure were maintained across all of the reactor core coolant inlet openings in the lower core support plate.

Accordingly there is a further need to improve the design of the lower reactor vessel plenum to assure this uniform flow and pressure is maintained.

These and other objects are achieved by employing a cylindrical reactor pressure vessel having a lower head and a lower core support plate. A cylinder having a vertical wall with a plurality of holes extending therethrough and an upper edge is supported from a plurality of locations around the lower head with the upper edge of the cylinder proximate the lower core support plate so that the majority of coolant flow entering the reactor pressure vessel and down the annulus between the cylindrical reactor pressure vessel walls and the core barrel passes through the holes in the vertical wall of the cylinder on route to the core inlet holes in the lower core support plate which is supported by the lower end of the core barrel. Desirably the upper edge of the cylinder is spaced below a bottom surface of the lower core support plate. Preferably a circumferential rib extends radially inward from the interior of the vertical wall of the cylinder to stiffen the wall so it can withstand the pressure of the flowing coolant.

In one embodiment the circumferential rib is formed slightly above a center of the height of the vertical wall of the cylinder and the holes in the vertical wall are formed in a first and second pattern. Preferably the holes in the vertical wall of the cylinder are substantially the same size and the first pattern of holes is above the rib and the second pattern of holes is below the rib. Desirably the first pattern is substantially circumferentially continuous and the second pattern is not substantially circumferentially continuous. In one embodiment a plurality of pairs of spaced vertical slots extending from a bottom of the cylinder vertically upward are cut in a lower portion of the vertical wall of the cylinder with each pair of vertical slots forming an attachment leg that is connected to the lower head. Preferably the circumferential distance between some of the pairs of spaced vertical slots differ from the distance between others of the pairs of spaced vertical slots and desirably the slots are symmetric across a diameter of the cylinder. Preferably the connection locations of the attachment legs to the lower plenum are not vertically aligned with the attachment locations of the core barrel to the reactor pressure vessel. In one embodiment six to eight attachment legs are provided and the slots extend up vertically to just below the elevation of the rib. Desirably the non continuous pattern of holes of the second pattern are separated by the attachment legs.

In another embodiment the holes in the first pattern and the holes in the second pattern are substantially aligned in circumferential rows and the number of rows of the second pattern are larger than the number of rows of the first pattern. Preferably each row of the first pattern is nested in another row of the first pattern and each row of the second pattern is nested in another row of the second pattern.

Preferably the cylinder substantially closes off the space between the annulus and a bottom portion of the lower head and the holes in the vertical wall of the cylinder are arranged so that a first portion of the coolant is directed directly up through the plurality of holes in the lower core support plate and a second portion of the coolant is directed downward toward the bottom portion of the lower head and up through the vortice suppression plates.

Referring now to the drawings shows a simplified nuclear reactor primary system including a generally cylindrical reactor pressure vessel having a closure head enclosing a nuclear core . A liquid reactor coolant such as water is pumped into the vessel by pump through the core where heat energy is absorbed and is discharged to a heat exchanger typically referred to as a steam generator in which heat is transferred to a utilization circuit not shown such as a steam driven turbine generator. The reactor coolant is then returned to the pump completing the primary loop. Typically a plurality of the above described loops are connected to a single reactor vessel by reactor coolant piping .

An exemplary reactor design is shown in more detail in . In addition to a core comprised of a plurality of parallel vertical co extending fuel assemblies for purposes of this description the other vessel internal structures can be divided into the lower internals and the upper internals . In conventional designs the lower internals function is to support align and guide core components and instrumentation as well as direct flow within the vessel. The upper internals restrain or provide a secondary restraint for the fuel assemblies and support and guide instrumentation and components such as control rods .

In the exemplary reactor shown in coolant enters the vessel through one or more inlet nozzles flows downward through an annulus between the vessel and the core barrel is turned 180 in a lower plenum passes upwardly through a lower core support plate upon which the fuel assemblies are seated and through and about the assemblies. The coolant flow through the core and surrounding area is typically large on the order of 400 000 gallons per minute at a velocity of approximately 20 feet per second. The resulting pressure drop and frictional forces tend to cause the fuel assemblies to rise which movement is restrained by the upper internals including a circular upper core plate . Coolant exiting the core flows along the underside of the upper core plate and upwardly through a plurality of perforations. The coolant then flows upwardly and radially to one or more outlet nozzles .

Rectilinearly moveable control rods typically include a drive shaft and a spider assembly of neutron poison rods that are guided through the upper internals and into aligned fuel assemblies by control rod guide tubes . The guide tubes are fixedly joined to the upper support assembly and connected by a split pin force fit into the top of the upper core plate . The pin configuration provides for ease of guide tube assembly or replacement if ever necessary and assures that the core loads particularly under seismic or other high loading accident conditions are taken primarily by the support columns and not the guide tubes . This assists in retarding guide tube deformation under accident conditions which could detrimentally affect control rod insertion capability.

In larger plants it is desirable to further refine the flow pattern in the lower plenum to assure that a constant flow rate and pressure is maintained over the entire surface of the lower core support plate . To accomplish that objective this invention employs a flow skirt schematically shown in by reference character and shown in more detail in . The flow skirt is a perforated cylinder structure in the lower reactor vessel plenum that channels the coolant exiting the annulus between the vessel and the core barrel through flow holes in the flow skirt and is attached to the reactor vessel bottom head by welding an integral attachment leg to a land on the reactor vessel bottom head at circumferentially spaced locations around the bottom head. The mounting locations of the flow skirt on the lands circumferentially spaced around the bottom head are diametrically symmetrical though not evenly spaced so that the mounting locations do not align vertically with the attachment positions of the core barrel to the interior of the reactor vessel wall.

Referring back to the coolant enters through the inlet into the vessel and down the annulus . At the bottom of the annulus the coolant encounters the flow skirt . A major portion of the coolant is then forced through the holes in the flow skirt wherein a portion is directed upward and directly through the lower core support plate while a second portion is directed to the lower portion of the plenum underneath the vortice suppression plate where this portion of the coolant turns upward through the holes in the vortice suppression plate to the lower core support plate. This hydraulic action balances the pressure and flow throughout the underside of the lower core support plate .

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular embodiments disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalence thereof.

