---

title: Real time medical data analysis system
abstract: A medical data analysis system utilizing a cloud computing resource. Exemplary embodiments provide real time medical testing data to a cloud computing resource via middleware. Exemplary middleware may condition the data for use by the cloud computing resource and the middleware may appropriately format the results of the analysis provided by the cloud for display on a user interface device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09095274&OS=09095274&RS=09095274
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09095274
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080831
---
The present disclosure relates to medical data analysis systems. In particular to system s that utilize a cloud computing resource to analyze medical data.

It is known that monitoring blood flow through blood vessels organs capillaries and the entire vascular system may be helpful in diagnosing a patient s overall health. Blood flow measurements may be especially advantageous when a health care provider is diagnosing or screening for various cardiovascular conditions aneurism risk hypertension clotting or benign or malignant masses. Currently the screening process for vascular issues can include physical examination genetic screening hereditary trait evaluation magnetic resonance imaging MRI with or without contrast hypertension readings investigative scoping or biopsy procedure s computed axial tomography CAT or CT scan or positron emission tomography PET as well as X ray and ultrasound imaging.

Embodiments provide medical data analysis systems utilizing a cloud computing resource. Exemplary embodiments may provide real time medical testing data to a cloud computing resource via middleware. Exemplary middleware may condition the data for use by the cloud computing resource and the middleware may appropriately format the results of the analysis provided by the cloud for display on a user device for example.

In one aspect a method of analyzing medical data may include sensing at least one medical parameter of a patient to provide sensed medical data transmitting the sensed medical data to a cloud computing resource for processing in at least near real time receiving analysis results from the cloud computing resource and transmitting the analysis results to a user interface device.

In another aspect a method of analyzing medical data may include providing a middleware computing device including middleware the middleware computing device being operatively coupled to at least one medical gathering device configured to gather medical data about a patient and operatively coupled to a cloud computing device including an application adapted to analyze medical data and generate an analysis result receiving by the middleware computing device the medical data about a patient from the medical data gathering device transferring the medical data from the middleware computing device to the cloud computing resource receiving an analysis result from the cloud computing resource by the middleware computing device and transferring the analysis result to a user interface device.

In another aspect a medical data processing system may include a middleware computing device including middleware the middleware computing device adapted to receive sensed medical data from a medical data sensing device and the middleware computing device being operatively coupled to a cloud computing resource having at least one application for processing the sensed medial data and being operatively couple to a user interface device.

The Brief Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalization and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject matter described herein will become apparent in the teachings set forth herein.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and make part of this disclosure.

This disclosure is drawn inter alia to methods apparatus computer programs and systems related to the analysis of medical data utilizing a cloud computing resource.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may provide a medical data analysis system offering improved efficiency for complex medical testing by utilizing a cloud computing infrastructure to conduct complex matching data analysis and computations to generate useful testing results. Conventional models of screening for vascular issues are well established. Even with nuclear magnetic resonance imaging MRI and other non invasive methods the only way for a treating physician to definitively diagnose a particular condition with a high degree of certainty in many cases is to perform an invasive procedure. Unfortunately many invasive procedures present an elevated risk to the patient as well as an increased expense over non invasive testing. If an accurate topical or other sort of non invasive test could provide additional data to the health care providers charged with diagnosing the patient then perhaps this would avoid the necessity of invasive procedures in some or many cases.

Additionally conventional systems often lack adequate baseline and historical guidelines for normal conditions based upon archived data from the same non invasive testing method on the same patient or other patients with similar demographics. Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may allow a patient s prior medical data to be coordinated via cloud computing resources for data analysis with new non invasive test results to quickly yield a probability factor in testing for vascular irregularities for example.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may provide an integrated system for testing of internal vascular issues as well as other medical tests dependent on real time data flow. Many of these tests may also be conducted using a non invasive testing method that may provide additional data to the health care providers charged with diagnosing a patient. Such a testing system may avoid the necessity of invasive procedures in some or many cases. Additionally the system may store and make available baseline and historical guideline data for normal conditions based upon archived data from the same non invasive testing style on the same patient or other patients with similar demographics. Data may be correlated using cloud computing resources for data analysis with new test results to quickly produce results of the testing for vascular irregularities for example. This data provided by the cloud computing infrastructure may be quickly configured by a middleware solution and securely transmitted to health care providers to enable the patient to obtain prompt testing results.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure include a system that may be adapted for medical testing and that acts upon real time data. Such a system may be advantageous over medical testing that is based upon a post measurement analysis of static data. Data that is collected by real time testing such as electrocardiograms vascular flow readings topical sensor readings etc. may be utilized by an exemplary system to yield quick results with analytical data to not only assess the test results at hand but also to analyze results against the patient s own history. Many of the medical applications benefiting from this embodiment may utilize dozens hundreds or more medical data inputs sensor data and other medical readings all of which are processed in real time or near real time by cloud computing.

In addition exemplary embodiments may provide a demographic analysis involving the patient s test data compared to data obtained from other patients with the same or similar demographics. The comparison data may include data that was determined to be negative positive and or inconclusive for the same test. This analysis may be performed for a single test or can generate progressive analysis of multiple tests conducted on the patient over time. The system may assess archived conditions and current conditions to make a predictive diagnosis thus enabling a health care provider to take the necessary steps in the patient s care as a result of the testing.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to perform real time analysis on vascular testing data for example. Vascular testing may be accomplished using sensors such as internal gate sensors floating through the bloodstream tracked by imaging technology an ultrasonic device and or focused audio data readings for example. In such an application the speed at which the data can reach the cloud and be processed back through the middleware to the user may be an important factor. High speed transfer and processing of data may enable enhanced access to diagnostic data for the health care provider s .

In an exemplary embodiment shown in sensors such as miniature microphones may be used to measure blood flow and coronary artery wall thickness for example. As is known in the art various ultrasound technologies are capable of measuring many medical parameters. Certain ultrasound devices for example may be used to ascertain artery wall thicknesses such as coronary artery wall thickness. Further measurement such as by an ultra sound device of carotid and femoral artery wall thicknesses may be useful in predicting the risk of a cardiovascular event. Regarding blood flow measurement Doppler ultrasound devices for example enable calculation of the flow rate of blood within blood vessels.

The sensors may provide real time data that may be securely transferred to the middleware of the system which may be resident on one or more servers. The middleware may reformat or package the data for use by the cloud computing resource . The middleware may then transfer the properly formatted data to the cloud computing infrastructure . The cloud computing resource may slot the data into the appropriate place in a database for the patient and in some cases into anonymous demographic and sortable categories enabling a database keyed analysis of user queried data. depicts a cross section of a coronary artery including the lumen and the artery wall . Exemplary embodiments of the disclosure may also be used to measure carotid artery wall thickness.

In an exemplary embodiment involving an electrocardiogram EKG the patient s real time EKG data which may be obtained using electrodes operatively connected to a medical data gathering device may be securely forwarded to the middleware . The middleware may condition the data for the cloud computing resource . Such conditioning may include configuring or translating data queries or results to be compatible with a specific file type database application format and or specification. A query from a user interface device which may be operated by or at the direction of the patient s healthcare test provider or physician may query the system . The query which may originate from one of many types of user devices operating systems and software application versions may be received and processed by the middleware for transmission to the cloud computing resource in an appropriate format for the cloud computing resource s operating system s application versions device specifications etc. as patient query data .

The exemplary cloud computing resource may set the user query within an application to run an analysis of the data in real time or in near real time. For example the cloud computing resource may compare the patient s medical data with baseline medical data the patients own history and demographic data all of which may be stored in or accessible by the cloud computing resource . The analysis may also include the generation of one or more reports by the cloud computing resource which may include chronological graphical reports including charts indicating healthy and unhealthy results in clear and easy to read display formats for example. In an exemplary embodiment the results transmitted back to the middleware may be specifically responsive to the user s query . An exemplary system may have the capability to analyze and distribute information in many diverse formats. Further exemplary systems may utilize the robust computational power of the cloud to process data very quickly.

In an exemplary embodiment once the results have been received by the middleware from the cloud the middleware may condition the results so that the end user s authorized to receive the data result of the query can receive the data result in a form that will be most conducive to viewing by the user based on the particular parameters of the users interface device s . Such conditioning may include configuring or translating data queries or results to be compatible with a specific file type database application format and or specification. For example the results may be formatted for display on the type of device e.g. desktop computer mobile or handheld device etc. utilized by the user. Utilizing the middleware to manipulate data sent to and from end users devices may require programming for compatibility with each type of device application programming interface API and or operating system to ultimately deliver an application version that enables the information to be functional accurate and useful.

Data analysis in near real time or real time with the actual test readings may lead to the test being extended refocused or discontinued based upon the data analysis results. The same process may be used during surgical procedures where real time data monitoring may be utilized to generate predictive warnings and verify courses of treatment and choices made during the procedure. The ability to access extensive data from medical testing and procedures can provide doctors and other health care providers with a much larger more easily accessible and more detailed field of information from which to make more informed decisions about a patient s care immediately or over time.

As shown in in an exemplary embodiment a user may initiate a data request using a user interface device which may bee transmitted to the middleware . The middleware may send a query to the cloud. The cloud may provide data results to the middleware which may receive and adapt the results into results for transmission to the user interface device . In addition one or more applications of the cloud computing resource may operate on patient data provided by the middleware .

In some exemplary embodiments the user may utilize a portable user interface device such as a notebook or handheld computer and the medical data sensor may also be portable. The sensor and the user interface device which may be integrated into a common unit may be connectable to the middleware from a plurality of locations thus allowing the system to function in a mobile work environment.

In some embodiments the cloud computing resource may include or access medical data from a plurality of patients. In exemplary embodiments because the medical data is stored within or accessible by the cloud and the applications are run within the cloud a plurality of users may have access to the same data and applications via the middleware. Further if the data and or applications are updated all users may immediately have access to the updated data and or applications. This is in contrast to conventional systems relying on local data analysis and storage which may require updates to applications and data to be installed locally on each user device.

As shown in exemplary middleware architecture may include components such as user interface applications application engines business components a hardware abstraction layer and hardware . The user interface applications may include user interface skin and other customization A. A user application programming interface API may link the user interface applications with the application engines . The application engines may include multiple engine architecture E such as Flash A HTML B Java C or other languages D. The business components may include system and applications management A media management B communications C metadata D and security E and may incorporate business logic adaptation F. A system application programming interface API may link the business components with the hardware abstraction layer .

As shown in exemplary cloud computing architecture may include a user interaction interface systems management component a provisioning tool a service catalog monitoring and metering components and servers which may include one or more servers and or one or more virtual servers. The user interaction interface may interact with the system management component and the service catalog . The systems management component may interact with the user interaction interface the service catalog the monitoring and metering components and the provisioning tool . The provisioning tool may interact with the system management component the service catalog and the servers . The servers may interact with the provisioning tool and the monitoring and metering components . The monitoring and metering components may interact with the systems management component and the servers . The service catalog may interact with the user interaction interface the systems management component and the provisioning tool .

Exemplary embodiments of the disclosure may utilize encryption and or other security features to maintain the security and integrity of the various data that is transferred within the system. For example any or all of data queries and results may be encrypted prior to and decrypted after transfer between any of the components of the exemplary systems. Further it is within the scope of the disclosure to utilize any known authentication system to verify the authority of the user to query the system and or receive results . For example a user interface device may include a password protected user interface. Further still it is within the scope of the disclosure to store data within the cloud in an encrypted form.

As used herein the term real time generally means as the data is being collected. It is to be understood that information incurring slight delays such as data transmission time and minimal computer processing time is considered to fall within this definition. More generally as used herein processes are conducted in real time so long as they are conducted substantially as the data is being collected. As used herein the term near real time allows for further delays to the extent that it still appears to an end user that the processing is occurring substantially as the data is being collected. The speed may vary from application to application depending on the user s needs and expectations.

Some embodiments are pertinent to more medical uses than the exemplary applications discussed herein. In general certain exemplary embodiments may be utilized whenever processing of data such as medical data may be advantageously performed by a cloud computing resource. For example some embodiments may be useful where such processing includes performing calculations or analysis using collected data modeling of collected data for interpretation comparing of collected data with previously collected data or baseline data or calculating of a risk factor based upon collected data.

With reference to depicted is an exemplary computing system for implementing embodiments. includes a computer including a processor memory and one or more drives . The drives and their associated computer storage media provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Drives can include an operating system application programs program modules and database . Computer further includes user input devices through which a user may enter commands and data. Input devices may include an electronic digitizer a microphone a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like.

These and other input devices can be connected to processor through a user input interface that is coupled to a system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Computers such as computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface or the like.

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more computers such as a remote computer connected to network interface . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and can include many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . Networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide area networks WAN local area networks LAN intranets and the Internet. For example in the subject matter of the present application computer may comprise the source machine from which data is being migrated and the remote computer may comprise the destination machine or vice versa. Note however that source and destination machines need not be connected by a network or any other means but instead data may be migrated via any media capable of being written by the source platform and read by the destination platform or platforms. When used in a LAN or WLAN networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or an adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet or network It will be appreciated that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

According to one embodiment computer is connected in a networking environment such that the processor and or program modules can perform with or as a computing system for middleware communicating with a cloud computing resource in accordance with embodiments herein.

In one exemplary embodiment as shown in a method of analyzing medical data may include sensing at least one medical parameter of a patient to provide sensed medical data transmitting the sensed medical data to a cloud computing resource for processing in at least near real time receiving analysis results from the cloud computing resource and transmitting the analysis results to a user interface device.

In another exemplary embodiment as shown in a method of analyzing medical data may include providing a middleware computing device including middleware the middleware computing device being operatively coupled to at least one medical gathering device configured to gather medical data about a patient and operatively coupled to a cloud computing device including an application adapted to analyze medical data and generate an analysis result receiving by the middleware computing device the medical data about a patient from the medical data gathering device transferring the medical data from the middleware computing device to the cloud computing resource receiving an analysis result from the cloud computing resource by the middleware computing device and transferring the analysis result to a user interface device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

