---

title: Apparatus, method and programmable product for identification of a document with feature analysis
abstract: The present application relates to a method, apparatus and programmable product for uniquely identifying a document. More specifically, the application allows for the identification of the document through collection of minutiae data at various points throughout the document's lifecycle without reliance upon or requirement for any unique identification characters, barcodes and/or objects that were added to the document specifically for the purpose of identification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08520888&OS=08520888&RS=08520888
owner: Bell and Howell, LLC
number: 08520888
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080425
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 908 000 filed Apr. 26 2007 entitled Apparatus Method and Program Product for Identification of a Document with Feature Analysis U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 951 640 filed Jul. 24 2007 entitled Document Processing System Control Using Document Feature Analysis for Identification and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 980 621 filed Oct. 17 2007 entitled Method and Programmable Product for Unique Document Identification Using Stock and Content the disclosures of which also are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

The present subject matter relates to a method apparatus and programmable product for uniquely identifying a document and more specifically identifying the document throughout its lifecycle without reliance upon or requirement for any unique identification characters barcodes and or objects that were added to the document specifically for the purpose of identification.

The concept behind human fingerprint identification and analysis is to examine the characteristics of a fingerprint in order to identify its unique attributes. In translating the physical print into unique recognition data by an analysis tool e.g. high resolution imaging device which may be subsequently stored various data points called minutiae are gathered such as depicted in . Traditionally uniqueness of a physical fingerprint was identified via the magnification of an image of the print and visual analysis of characteristics of the magnified print. Minutiae is essentially data representative of elements of interest. When one considers that no two fingerprints are identical it is thus so that no sets of fingerprint minutiae points are alike. Minutiae may be compiled in various ways such as two dimensional coordinates representative of specific elements of interest as a function of the relative distances between select elements of interest as a function of relative angular measurements between select elements of interest etc. Such information in compilation may be associated with a unique identification tag as being representative of a sole individual. Hence the statistical probability of duplicate fingerprints and therefore duplicate sets minutiae data is so astronomically high as to be considered virtually impossible even for identical twins.

The number and location elements of interest for compiling the minutiae vary from finger to finger and from person to person for any particular finger for example a person s left thumb versus their right . When a set of fingerprint images is obtained from an individual the data number for a minutiae is recorded for each finger. The precise locations of the minutiae are also recorded in the form of numerical coordinates for each finger. Other minutiae data may also be collected and associated with the fingerprint image such as scar tissue data or the like for distinct identification purposes. The result is the generation of a function based on the compilation of this minutiae data that can be entered and stored in a computer database. Having acquired this data a computer can rapidly compare this functional data against any previously stored fingerprint data in order to potentially link to an original source.

Unlike fingerprint analysis where inherently unique aspects of a physical fingerprint are relied upon most document identification methods involve the decoding of or recognition of physical content or markings on the document as identification means. For example in the mail processing industry where postal authority rules and regulations must be adhered to in order to avoid mail fraud and enable postage discounts for mailers document identification and recognition is critical. Usually a postal authority relies solely on a sequence number barcode postal ZIP Code or other physical marking selectively placed upon the mail article as a means of identifying it from other articles in a batch of mail and or from among all mailpieces. Likewise in many manufacturing or goods distribution industries where unique documentation e.g. labels is required to distinguish a particular good or manufacture unique scancodes item numbers or serial numbers are used. Even in the field of document forensics which may involve the determination of signature forgery mark authentication writing indentations smudge mark analysis etc. there still is a dependency upon analysis of the content characters and or objects i.e. object character recognition of that which is printed or written on the document.

Suffice to say there is currently no system or method for enabling the complete identification of a document especially throughout its lifecycle based on the same principles that enable a fingerprint to be distinctly identified from all others. Because it is common for documents to be printed and or copied such that they possess identical physical content or markings e.g. charts words logos letter head etc. there is a need in the art for a system and method for unique document identification and analysis enablement would require the generation of minutiae data that is not limited to or based solely upon such content or markings such as a barcode or the like. Conventional techniques of adding unique identifiers to a document for later identification involves added expense. Furthermore the there is a need in the art for a system that enables a client to easily gain access to relevant data pertaining to a document throughout its life cycle on demand.

The teachings herein alleviate one or more of the above noted problems by providing a method apparatus and programmable product for document identification. The present teachings allow for unique identification a document and more specifically allow for the identification of the document through collection of minutiae data at various points throughout its lifecycle without reliance upon or requirement for any unique identification characters barcodes and or objects that were added to the document specifically for the purpose of identification.

Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The advantages of the present teachings may be realized and attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations set forth in the detailed examples discussed below.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The teachings presented herein pertain to the collection of minutiae data at various points throughout the life cycle of a document for the purpose of generating and cultivating a unique document identification value associated with said minutiae data. Furthermore the teachings pertain to the identification of documents throughout its lifecycle based on its associated document identification value. The document identification value may be generated as a function of the compilation of said collected minutiae data such that the assignment of the identification value is unique to only that document. Alternatively the document identification value may be assigned uniquely by a minutiae data processing module or computing device. As a mere example and not by way of limitation with respect to the teachings herein contemplate that analysis tools may be used to process a document for the purpose of identifying characteristics that distinguish it from countless other documents in a manner similar to that performed for distinguishing a fingerprint from countless other possibilities.

With this in mind those skilled in the art will recognize that an image of the document may be analyzed using resolution imaging and magnification techniques to reveal unique document minutiae data points characteristic of the original document as shown by image . In a manner similar to an image of a human fingerprint this document minutiae data may be compiled and stored into a data structure possibly even including metadata associated with the document and then associated with a unique document identification value . The value assigned would be based at least in part on the document minutiae data collected initially while subsequent minutiae data may be added at future points of processing of the document. Suffice to say the ability to associate a unique identification value to a data structure inclusive of minutiae data and possibly metadata provides a convenient means for which to distinguish a document from a myriad of possibilities. Furthermore as will become apparent to those skilled in the art the ability to persistently maintain updated minutiae data respective to a document by association of its unique document identification value provides a means of document tracking and use logistics compilation. The document identification value is required to uniquely identify the computer record that contains minutiae data associated with document being processed. Numerous techniques are available to those skilled in the art to assign a unique document ID that is not based on the contents of the data file.

Generally speaking metadata is data about data. As described herein metadata may refer to any information that reveals the context and or characteristics of other data e.g. data structures objects how when or by whom a particular set of data was collected or how the data is formatted. This may include the compilation or encoding of information about data such as a document that aids in the discovery assessment history and management of the data. From a systems perspective metadata compiled in association with system generated data is known for providing a means of recognizing and describing all aspects of said system data activities people and organizations involved locations of data and processes access methods limitations timing and events as well as intended utilization and rules with govern use of the metadata. In general metadata can be classified in three distinct ways 1 By content wherein the metadata can either describe the resource itself for example name and size of a file or the content of the resource for example This video shows a boy playing football 2 by mutability wherein with respect to the data comprising a resource e.g. a video file metadata can be either immutable for example the Title of a video does not change as the video itself is being played or mutable the Scene description does change or 3 by logical function wherein the intent or logical reasoning underlying the structure of the data is described. Hence document metadata is used in a general context to refer to any data that is stored about the document that has been fingerprinted associated with a unique document identification value as compared to minutiae which is used for document identification. Indeed those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations of metadata schemas exist including but not limited to Dublin Core AACR2 Anglo American Cataloging Rules and GILS Government Information Locator Service . The teachings herein are therefore not limited to any particular implementation.

As described with respect to the teachings presented herein minutiae data may refer to any data representative of or descriptive of the physical or structural elements that define characterize or distinguish one document from another. However for document fingerprinting minutiae data is not necessary limited to data regarding specific elements of interest on the document. By physical it is meant the orientation style placement appearance and other such features that influence the appearance of the document. On the other hand structural elements refer to the internal characteristics and composure of the paper or other medium upon which the document is produced. Minutiae data may include data generated associated or conveyed during and throughout the life cycle of the document including but not limited to data expressed or created during the time of document creation definition edition versioning formatting importation exportation storing purging printing viewing reviewing conversion print adaptation transmission receipt reproduction e.g. photocopying scanning imaging and physical manipulation. More specifically the minutiae data may be compiled and associated with metadata. When compiled individually or in concert with other information e.g. metadata the minutiae data may provide a persistent data record that may be retrieved as a function of the unique physical structural and or contextual elements associated with a document. No one minutiae item is sufficient for unique identification of a document but rather it is the collection of numerous matching minutiae that enables the unambiguous identification of a document. For this reason those skilled in the art will recognize that minutiae data may be expanded during the document s lifecycle.

In an exemplary depiction of the primary phases of processing of a document wherein the aforementioned characteristic data may be obtained in accordance with the teachings and principles herein are shown. Namely each phase represents the different phases of the document life cycle expressed herein as the electronic softcopy collection phase the first observation hardcopy collection phase the subsequent observation phase and the document representation phase . The first phase corresponds generally to the electronic or data realm of activity of document processing while the second phase corresponds to periods of analysis after rendering the document to a physical medium. By first observation collection it is meant that initial moments of analysis and data collection extraction of a hardcopy version of the document may be performed. The subsequent observation collection phase corresponds to moments of data collection extraction subsequent analysis and document identification beyond the initial printing phase. Generally this may occur as the document is distributed throughout a mail processing facility or postal network or as the document is processed by a recipient . The last processing phase represents post delivery of the document wherein the physical document is capable of being represented electronically by one or more electronic representation mediums e.g. scanner device . More about these environments will be presented with respect to the teachings later on in the detailed description.

Data processing i.e. minutiae or metadata collection at each phase is performed by an extractor module an executable module integrated with and or communicable with a process device or utility e.g. software hardware or firmware processes or tools capable of operating during the time of a respective phase. The extractor module operates to extract acquire and or convey data in different ways depending on the corresponding phase of data processing of the document. Moreover the extractor module is deployable for independent operation upon the various devices or utilities usable during the electronic collection phase first observation collection phase subsequent observation phase or document representation phase while enabling network communication. In this way the modules may relay information to each other if necessary and or communicate with a document minutiae data assessment module . In addition the extractor module may also communicate with the particular device tool e.g. software or process it is operating in association with during a respective document processing phase such as to provide tracking information or ID notification data.

The document minutiae data processing module is a device e.g. server executable module or process that analyzes document minutiae data provided by an extractor module in the form of a data structure. In other instances the document minutiae processing module communicates relevant information pertaining to a document to the extractor module . In general the minutiae data processing module processes the various fields of the data structure in order to access the data contents therein and then executes one or more of the following actions based on the data 1 compare the document minutiae data received against existing document minutiae data stored to a document minutiae database to determine if it is associated with a particular document identification value and 2 assign a unique document identification value based upon the received document minutiae data or other data processing function that produces a unique file identification and document ID. More details regarding the behavior and function of the document minutiae processing module and its interaction with the extractor module will be described in later paragraphs. Suffice to say when and extractor module is integrated with a document processing medium e.g. a printer document authoring software high speed inserter device printstream management medium e.g. printstream creation software or analysis tool e.g. imaging device spectrometer that operates upon the document during its lifecycle the extractor module may access key information representative of the unique elements and features of the document.

The initial phase of document lifecycle data processing referred to as the electronic softcopy collection phase corresponds to minutiae generation and collection at the point and time of document composition and or printstream composition. Document composition and in some instances printstream composition refers to instances wherein a document is generated designed and or altered via electronic data processing means i.e. a document composition tool such that the resultant output is at least an electronic softcopy representation of the document as structured in accordance with a specific file format e.g. .doc .txt .html .dat . During an instance of document composition various types of objects and or characters may be associated with the document via a document composition tool to comprise the human or machine readable content or message of the document. Ultimately during the electronic collection phase any instance of a document in softcopy form whether the document has been stored to a storage medium or not is suitable for exposing document minutiae data capable of being collected by an extractor module .

Examples of document composition tools which may be employed during the electronic collection phase include but are not limited to word processing software such as Microsoft Word and Word Perfect desktop and web publishing software such as Framemaker Dreamweaver and WebPlus and image creation software tools such as CorelDRAW or Photoshop. In general software applications such as these provide a WYSIWYG What You See Is What You Get interface for enabling advanced content authoring capability to the user without exposing via the user interface the underlying schema elements and semantic variables that comprise the document e.g. metadata data tags delimiter values . Many proprietary composition tools also are available and used by those skilled in the art to compose a document. So for example in Microsoft Word when a user types the word Legacy in bold the interface doesn t display any data tags indicative of the style character format type or definition of this user entry e.g. Legacy but rather only shows Legacy.

Other document authoring generation or composition tools from which document data may be extracted include those that are text based e.g. Text Editor Notepad and WYSIWYM What You See Is What You Mean based e.g. Butterfly XML wherein the various schema elements and or semantic variables that enable the structure of the document and its content are presented to the user interface directly. As a practical matter other document creation tools include any software or operating systems capable of rendering characters and or objects to a user display or wherein said characters and or objects are capable of being rendered to print. For example when a user creates a representation of the current state of their desktop via the Print Screen function of their keyboard the captured image data is stored to a electronic buffer space e.g. the clipboard a file and represents an instance of document composition and or printstream composition.

Regardless of the type of document authoring tools employed be it those described above hardware based or firmware based those skilled in the art will appreciate that the schema elements and semantic data e.g. meta tags document type definitions etc. that define the document may be exposed and or acquired for analysis. Still further those skilled in the art will recognize that the teachings are not limited to any particular type of semantic data markup language data serialization format syntax schema or the like as indeed various types may be employed including but not limited to Extensible Markup Language XML Hypertext Markup Language HTML Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML JavaScript Object Notation JSON Ordered Graph Data Language OGDL AsciiDoc REBOL and other such languages executable by various programming parsers e.g. PERL C JAVA . The extractor module may be integrated with the document composition medium as an executable module e.g. DLL dynamic link library having the appropriate functions and interface accesses for perceiving and recording the data expressed during document creation. Indeed the extractor module may also perceive and record data exchanges between multiple other dynamic link libraries as they interact in connection with the document creation tool.

Similarly printstream composition tools may also be employed during the electronic collection phase . In general printstream composition refers to instances wherein a softcopy representation of a document is translated into a specific printstream format such that the resultant output is at least a print file representative of the document as structured in accordance with a specific print file format. Various types of print file formats are well known in the art for enabling the communication of a softcopy representation of a document with a printing device including but limited to postscript SOLscript variable postscript VPS VIPP Metacode Advanced Function Presentation AFP Printer Control Language PCL enhanced metafile EMF or Hewlett Packard Graphics Language HPGL . During an instance of printstream composition the softcopy representation of the document is engaged in conversion to a respective print file format. The print file representative of the respective print stream may include instructions for regulating and controlling the behavior of the printer device i.e. ink head spray pattern.

Alternatively printstream composition may refer to instances wherein existing printstream data i.e. one or more print files are manipulated or restructured to alter the expected document output from the printing device. In the former scenario the document composition tool may employ one or more print drivers modules or the like to achieve conversion or the print drivers modules may process the softcopy document directly. In the latter scenario various printstream composition techniques and tools may be employed for manipulating merging or converting existing printstream data including but not limited to Presort Accuracy Validation and Evaluation PAVE via Mail Manager 2010 by BCC Software or Print Stream Optimization and ReCompose via the B WE One software suite provided by B we Bell Howell Company. Other printstream composition techniques and tools may include those for performing print file splitting document re engineering print file data extraction document indexing etc. Also various techniques exist for converting from one standard print file to another e.g. conversion from an Enhanced Metafile to a Windows metafile . It is not uncommon for printstream composition to occur in parallel with the document composition process depending on the type of operating system being utilized to compose the document. Indeed during the electronic collection phase any instance of printstream composition whether for application within a mail processing environment or not is suitable for exposing document minutiae data capable of being collected by an extractor module .

Still further in the mail processing industry a data center processor may be used to compose documents destined for operation by a mail processing device such as an inserter. Data center processors typically enable document and or printstream composition to commence and alternatively the manipulation of such data. In association with the document created by the data center processor may be one or more machine processing device control settings e.g. inserter data file IDF .

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of document minutiae gathering during the electronic phase of data collection extraction is shown. In particular a document composition tool such as a document authoring software application or word processor is capable of operating upon a computing device . Various types of documents may be composed using the document composition tool including but not limited to documents destined for print press production and high speed printing devices such as lottery tickets insurance documents stock certificates billing statements checks and mailing envelopes . Some of these exemplary documents have commercial or industrial applications while others may be generated in consumer environments. Regardless of what entity composes such documents each of these documents represents those which are specific to a particular individual or recipient. As shown by these examples even in the absence of tools to interpret the physical content of such documents there are many applications in which the ability to distinguish between a myriad of such documents may be critical.

Also operating in concurrence with the document composition tool and or computer device is an extractor module which may run as a background process at times of document composition and or printstream composition. The document composition tool which generally includes a representative user interface device context for presenting an electronic depiction of a document enables a user to associate various graphics primitives and characters such as text symbols etc. having various defined properties font types font styles font sizes spacing characteristics glyph characteristics line styles etc. with the document. In addition the user may also associate with the document various objects such as images graphs charts financial metrics color backgrounds etc. During document composition and or printstream composition select document minutiae data may be collected by the extractor module and stored into a retrievable data structure for subsequent retrieval. Document minutiae data collected during the electronic collection phase may include but is not limited to word count per page or per the entire document tab spacing and indentation lengths margin lengths paragraph numbers header footer locations image locations line numbers line spacing character and or font spacing number of characters with and without spaces textual color properties text strings and characters white space total area data document size and other such data useful for defining and influencing the physical appearance of the document when rendered to its hardcopy printed form. The minutiae data may also include content information such as specific text phrases numbers or combinations thereof where no single grouping of text phrases or numbers is sufficient for document identification nor were these items added to the document for the purpose of identification.

Also in association with the document minutiae data the extractor module may compile metadata information relative to the document and or printstream being composed. An exemplary metadata structure along with an explanation of the meaning of the various element types comprising it is shown in TABLE 1 below.

Metadata may be encoded semantically into the document being composed through the usage of META tags. An example of this in the context of the HTML syntax is shown below 

Alternatively metadata may be stored in a separate file or database that is linked to the document or printstream being composed. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that other elements including custom elements may be stored as metadata. In addition references to additional resource data may also be stored as metadata. For instance in a mail processing environment machine and document control setting information may be utilized to control how an inserter handles a composed document. These settings may be established during document composition such as by the data center processor and stored as a control settings file. Settings may include document folding or cutting instructions instructions on which inserts to select for inclusion in an envelope along with the document document arrangement instructions e.g. to control the sequence in which inserts or pages of the document are placed labeling instructions printer instructions. The name of the control settings file conveying this information its whereabouts its source of origination some reference to the information can be saved as metadata for subsequent referenced. Indeed any metadata that aids in perceiving the context of the acquired document i.e. its identification discovery assessment function location history and management is within the scope of the present teachings.

The extractor module may perform a persistent or periodic aggregation of the above described metadata by accessing the metadata file or decoding the META tag syntactical references during document and or printstream composition. Moreover the extractor module may perform a persistent or periodic aggregation of the minutiae data by interpreting the application programming interface API function calls and or object library instructions called during document composition or printstream composition. Alternatively the extractor module may directly invoke various function calls associated with the API as applied by the document composition tool for retrieving the various semantic variables that influence the physical characteristics and layout of data for the document content layout margins text features .

For example the Windows operating system takes advantage of a graphics device interface GDI a type of API which provides functions and related structures that a document composition or printstream composition application can use to generate graphical output for displays printers and other devices. Using GDI functions the document composition tool can draw lines curves closed figures paths text and bitmap images intended for comprising the content of the document as well as define how said information is arranged and or formatted. The functions that enable formatting include those for retrieving or setting the text formatting attributes of a document those for retrieving or setting the character widths and those for retrieving or setting string widths and heights. An exemplary means by which the extractor module may access the document minutiae data during document composition and or printstream composition is to invoke the various retrieval functions associated with the API i.e. retrieve text color data of a text string by calling the GetTextColor function retrieve the current background color for a text string by calling the GetBkColor function retrieve actual character width or spacing data by using the GetCharABCWidths and GetCharABCWidthsFloat functions or retrieve the physical dimensions of any font to be embedded within the document by calling the GetTextMetrics function. Text information oriented at specific coordinates regions of interest ROI i.e. text information located within a particular range of coordinates or locations upon a document may also be retrieved without necessarily decoding or interpreting the text itself.

Similarly the same above described document minutiae data may be retrieved from analysis and interpretation of printstream data e.g. a print file representative of the document during printstream composition which may occur in parallel with document composition. For example an enhanced metafile EMF is a print device independent print file format supports all device driver types used to record the text output commands text formatting attributes a semantic variables that were associated with the document via the GDI function calls made by the document composition tool . Each time the document composition tool calls one of the above described GDI drawing functions one or more new EMF records are created and stored in the print file representative of the document. Elements of the EMF include a header a table of handles to GDI objects e.g. SetTextColor SetTextMetrics a private palette and an array of metafile records. Hence the extractor module may read the print file e.g. the EMF identify those specific references or variables that influence the physical characteristics of the document e.g. tab spacing and indentation lengths margin lengths character and or font spacing number of characters with and without spaces textual color properties text or image coordinate data and store such data as document minutiae data .

It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that compiling document minutiae data representative of the physical characteristics of the document in association with metadata descriptive of the context of the document and or printstream composed provides key information unique to the document in question. Indeed depending on processing requirements and environments different combinations of such data may be specified for extraction by the extractor module . For example the extractor module may be programmed to seek only five specific minutiae data elements of interest in characterizing a document that is intended for a single recipient. Exemplary elements of interest respective to the data comprising a document say a credit card statement may include but is not limited to location style content formatting and number of characters of an account number included as part of said credit card statement. In contrast more minutiae data points may be compiled for a document intended for multiple users such a form letter to be mailed out to thousands of different recipients. The same is true for the associated metadata where only specific metadata elements of interest e.g. machine ID date and time of creation may be compiled in combination with the minutiae data while avoiding the collection of less relevant metadata. Customization of this nature will be appreciated by those skilled in the art as the extractor modules may be adapted to fit a particular environment organization or user in which it may be deployed while still maintaining a consistent data collection standard the standard of extracting only minutiae data useful for influencing or representing the physical and structural characteristics of the document and metadata useful for perceiving the context of the acquired document i.e. its identification discovery assessment function history and management. The same minutiae features that are extracted from the electronic versions of the documents can also be extracted from an image of the hardcopy document. It is the comparison of these two sets of minutiae that forms the basis of fingerprint document identification.

Reference is now made to which depicts the exemplary process of minutiae gathering during the first observation collection hardcopy phase of data extraction. As stated this corresponds to the moment in the lifecycle of the document wherein it is rendered to a physical medium e.g. paper as opposed to maintained electronically softcopy form and initially processed for analysis by one or more analysis tools. More specifically the first observation collection phase pertains to the first instance of analysis and data collection extraction upon a hardcopy version of the document by a particular type of analysis tool. Hence when documents such as the stock certificate are printed from a computing device by a printing device various types of analysis tools may be employed for processing the document to obtain unique minutiae data. As a first type of analysis a high resolution imaging device may be used to perform a paper analysis of the printed document. The paper analysis may include analysis of the fiber structure in high fiber content paper analysis of the paper density that naturally occurs when the paper pulp is compressed or analysis of paper textual features that may be intentionally introduced into the paper. In performing the analysis the entire document may be analyzed or alternatively a specific region of interest of the document may be analyzed.

The latter increases the speed and efficiency of the analysis process while the former increases the number of unique minutiae data points capable of being generated. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that from an internal microscopic level of perception even two documents appearing identical physically e.g. same content layout formatting typesetting will differ greatly structurally even if compared against one another at a limited region of interest. As such the analysis tool need only observe a limited sample of the document i.e. analyze the rightmost bottom region of the document to within a rectangular region of 0.25 0.25 inches. Alternatively the region of interest need not be symmetrical but rather asymmetrical e.g. a region enclosed by a freeform object as defined by the operator of the analysis tool. In either way restricting the fiber composition analysis to a smaller defined region of interest greatly increases the rate of processing of documents for performing such analysis and enables feasibility of implementation within residential commercial and industrial settings.

Pursuiant to the paper composition analysis within the region of interest a high resolution image of the fibers or pulp concentrations comprising the document may be translated to reveal specific minutiae elements of interest. Minutiae data collected respective to the elements of interest may include but is not limited to number of distinct fibers perceivable within the ROI length and width of select fibers fiber curl histogram bi variate scatter point data coordinate location of a select reference fiber etc. In the case of pulp minutiae data may include but is not limited to pulp density data or pulp type analysis. Using a paper and pulp analysis device measurements of the fiber formation area length breadth perimeter optical density shape and location of objects done on a feature specific basis may also be captured as minutiae data. Such machines may also be capable of analyzing metallic semi conducting and oxide materials and fibers embedded within the document having a conductive capacity e.g. paper embedded with radio frequency identifier RFID materials . RFID is a broad field of technology covering material or devices that respond to radio frequency illumination. These devices may include but are not limited to active devices that radiate a result when interrogated or passive devices that re radiate a result when illuminated wherein the passive devices may include but are not limited to semiconductor devices material deposited on a substrate printed material or fibers contained in the paper. The minutiae data may be persistently stored by an extractor module executable as compatible software firmware upon the respective analysis tool e.g. image analysis machine for collection of such data during the time of document analysis. This data may then be aggregated into a data structure for subsequent retrieval. It will be seen later on that the data structure may be utilized in different ways to affect the behavior of the extractor module and its interaction with the document minutiae processing module not shown depending on the data stored therein.

Another type of analysis of the document during the first observation collection phase may be conducted using an imaging device . Exemplary imaging devices for collecting minutiae data may include but are not limited to scanners optical readers cameras copy machines fax machines etc. An image of the hardcopy document may be analyzed using resolution imaging and magnification techniques to reveal unique document minutiae data points characteristic of the original document as depicted with respect to the composite image . Document minutiae data collected during the electronic collection phase by the extractor module operating in association with the imaging device may include but is not limited to word count per page or per the entire document tab spacing and indentation lengths margin lengths paragraph numbers header footer locations image locations line numbers line spacing character and or font spacing number of characters with and without spaces textual color properties text string and character coordinate information paper stock paper type dimensions and other such data descriptive of the physical characteristics of the various objects and or characters that appear on the hardcopy document. Also in association with the document minutiae data the extractor module may compile metadata information created by the imaging device as it processes the document . As will be apparent to those skilled in the art the minutiae data collected by imaging the hardcopy document to much an extent mirrors the minutiae data collected during the electronic collection phase . It will be seen later on that this is an intentional feature of the present example for enabling advanced tracking and linking of the hardcopy version of a document to its original electronic representation and history data via the assigned document identification value .

Other analysis tools and or sensing devices may also contribute additional minutiae data associated with the document including a microscopic imaging device for generating micro macroscopic minutiae data and a chemical analysis tool for generating chemical composition minutiae data. While the paper fiber composition minutiae data is based on analysis of the paper fibers comprising the document micro macroscopic minutiae data is based on more rigorous magnification of the document for boring deeper into the internal structure of the document. A scanning electron microscope SEM may be used to generate detailed molecular images such as shown with respect to a captured image representative of a select ROI of the envelope. Due to the manner in which the image is created SEM images have a characteristic three dimensional appearance and are useful for judging the surface structure of the sample in question e.g. the document . Other forms of microscopic devices and or techniques may also be employed including x ray microscopy and scanning acoustic microscopy SAM . Chemical analysis may be performed for analysis of microscopic particles or regions within a sample region of interest of the document analyzed by the scanning electron microscope SEM . Energy dispersive spectrometer EDS micro analysis may be performed by measuring the energy and intensity distribution of x ray signals generated by a focused electron beam on the region of interest of the document. In this way minutiae data representative of the micro and chemical elemental composition of materials can be obtained along with any associated metadata generated by the respective analysis tools used. The metadata may reveal time stamp information device or tool identification data network identification information and other data that may be useful for understanding the events context of the document at that moment of its lifecycle.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that various other tools not expressly presented herein may also be utilized during the first observation minutiae collection phase for characterizing the physical and structural qualities of the document. For example OCR technology may be employed for interpreting the plurality of markings resident upon a document where the results of the interpretation may be further employed as minutiae data. Such analysis may be employed on a case by case basis however given that no single marking is sufficient in and of itself to uniquely identify a document from amongst a myriad of possibilities i.e. one out of a trillion of actively known or fingerprinted documents . The interpretation of a single element of content e.g. words text strings barcodes of a document does very little to enable one to identify a specific instance of a document against even numerous photocopied versions thereof having the same identical content. Indeed practitioners of the art may employ their own suite of sensors or analysis tools for processing of documents in accordance with their own requirements. In an effort to further enhance data processing rates for the above described analysis tools and select minutiae data of interest need only be stored into the data structure . In particular only the minutiae data most pertinent to characterizing the physical e.g. text coordinates word counts and structural composition of the document e.g. microscopic macroscopic fiber chemical within the region of interest need be compiled. Of course the number of data points measurements or calculations retained as minutiae data may be customized to fit specific processing environments organizational capabilities or user needs. In this way the analysis tools may be adapted accordingly to ensure higher scan rates sampling speeds timing settings and signal processing for analysis of the samples under analysis.

The data structure for aggregating the minutiae data may then be communicated via a network connection to the document minutiae processing module not shown which may reside locally in proximity to the analysis tool via a local server or at a remote server or location. Depending on the data conveyed to the document minutiae processing module various actions may commence including but not limited to 1 associate the contents of the data structure with a newly assigned document minutiae identification value or 2 associate the contents of the data structure with an existing document minutiae identification value. More regarding the activities and behavior of the document minutiae processing module will be described in later paragraphs.

In an inserter environment one or more analysis tools sensors or a suite of various sensors tools depicted as and may operate upon a document being processed by the inserter . The analysis tools may be positioned inline at various points along the inserter for analyzing the documents in real time or alternatively offline for post inserter processing analysis. For example the analysis tools and could be high speed imaging devices e.g. readers cameras for acquiring but not necessarily interpreting the various markings that may appear on a scanned document. Coupled to the inserter is a control computer which may provide a user interface that enables an operator of the inserter to interact with inserter control software that runs the inserter . Alternatively the inserter control computer may also be coupled to the various analysis tools i.e. high speed cameras for providing a user interface that allows an operator to observe the various images acquired during processing or control the settings of the analysis tools. Also the inserter control computer may execute a machine or document control file which includes various instructions for cutting folding and manipulating the document as required to meet document preparation needs. Those skilled in the art will recognize of course that various implementations may be employed other than that depicted herein.

As a first exemplary point of observation the analysis tool sensing device may observe a document as it is engaged in front end inserter processing activities. Such activities may include loading the paper into the feeder module of the inserter and cutting and folding the paper to construct a document of desired size. Generally the roll of paper is printed in advance by one or more printer modules not shown to display the various objects and or characters that comprise the human or machine readable content of the document. It is fed into the inserter as a continuous roll . In the case of a camera being employed as the analysis tool image data pertaining to the document at may be compiled and translated into minutiae data by the extractor module . An extractor module may be integrated with and or communicable with the suite of analysis tools sensors e.g. one extractor module per analysis tool . As before minutiae data may be persistently stored by the extractor module during the time of document analysis. This data is then aggregated and packaged into a data structure .

Also as indicated before various minutiae data elements of interest may include word count per page tab spacing and indentation lengths margin lengths number of paragraphs number of lines character and or object coordinate information and any other data descriptive of the physical appearance of the hardcopy document. Fold and or cut line location data may also be stored such as by determining the distance from an edge of the paper to a point of contact with a cutter as measured from an image depicting this point of contact. Minutiae data associated with the structural composition of the document may include reflectance and contrast data paper density or paper texture information. Also in association with the document minutiae data the extractor module may compile metadata information created by the imaging device as it processes the document . In particular the metadata may include timestamp information machine ID machine location etc. By associating the metadata with the minutiae data collected during inserter processing a historical account of the activities involving document is maintained. Ultimately this information is retrieved via its assignment to a unique document identification value.

The data collection process continues at the other points of analysis along the inserter including during accumulation and merging of the various inserts with a document envelope insertion and finished document output wherein trays are readied for postal processing and or distribution . In the case of accumulation and document merging and envelope insertion this involves the association of different documents with one another in order to compile a distinct mail article. Keeping in line with the teachings herein each of these documents e.g. inserts document obtained from the print roll the envelope may themselves be associated with their own unique document identification value assuming some form of value was initiated at a phase of that document s lifecycle . As minutiae data pertaining to the document is collected at the accumulation phase minutiae data may also be collected for the associated insert s . In this way all respective documents may be associated with its own unique document identification value which as we will see is either created or recalled. As the document plus the one or more inserts have a relationship their respective minutiae data may also include reference data indicative of the document identification value of its associates. Alternatively where the document identification value of the inserts are known in advance the document itself may simply be assigned the known reference values of the inserts without the performance of minutiae data collection for the inserts. Regardless of how this is done those skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple document identification values having a common association may be referenced to one another. This significantly increases the ability to track a document and its associates throughout the document lifecycle by referencing a particular document identification value as stored to a minutiae database.

Further minutiae data may be accumulated at the finished document output processing phase including the recording of any postage marks printer marks labels or other physical manipulations that may occur from the inclusion of other inline devices. Inline devices may include but are not limited to postage meter systems postage application devices printers or labelers. In some instances these other inline devices may be designated as an analysis tool and thus may be integrated with an extractor module for enabling the generation of minutiae data. For example a postage meter enabled with an extractor module could record postage affixed data as applied to a document as minutiae data. Doing so creates an additional audit trail that could be useful for the operator or postal authority in reconciling postage payment discrepancies.

Attention is now directed towards the minutiae data processing module . Once minutiae data is stored as a data structure by the extractor module it is transmitted via a communication channel e.g. serial connection LAN connection wireless connection to the minutiae data processing module . The minutiae data processing module extracts the data populating each field of the data structure performs any decomposition formatting of the data if required then checks the minutiae database as shown in to determine if it matches any existing data. The match determination process as recognized by those skilled in the art may be executed using varying types of matching algorithms and or logical instructions. Furthermore the match determination process may be performed in accord with match sensitivity settings so as to enable high confidence or threshold based e.g. specified percentage match evaluation of the minutiae data against data within the minutiae database. For example if the match threshold sensitivity is set to 75 then a minutiae data set matching less than 75 of any other data sets within the database would be considered a non match. Suffice to say any effective or known means of match determination processing is within the scope of the teachings herein.

In instances where no match is found of any of the document minutiae data against the database the minutiae data processing module associates a unique document identification value with the transmitted data data structure. This unique identification number may be assigned in various ways including but not limited to as a function of the document minutiae data obtained as a Universal Unique Identifiers UUIDs via the application of a hash generation algorithm or other encryption data generation algorithm as a numeric value of various bits e.g. 48 bit 128 bit 246 bit or a combination thereof. In this scenario of no match no minutiae data from the electronic softcopy collection phase exists corresponding to an instance of the hardcopy document being fingerprinted i.e. associated with an identification value on the basis of its unique characteristics for the first time. On the other hand when a match is found of any of the minutiae data transmitted by the extractor module such as to within the given threshold the minutiae data processing module identifies the corresponding document identification value. It may then append any new minutiae data data not previously associated with the identification value to the existing data structure.

As a practical example consider a document for which a document identification value is created during the electronic collection phase of the document s lifecycle. Recall that the minutiae data collected during the electronic collection phase is data useful for defining and influencing the physical appearance of the document when rendered to its hardcopy printed form e.g. word count number of lines coordinate locations of text and or images . When the same document is physically rendered and analyzed during the first observation collection phase or subsequent observation phase the same matching minutiae data points are identified on the physical representation of the document e.g. word count coordinate locations of text and or images . Additional minutiae data pertaining to this document i.e. chemical paper composition may also be acquired during this phase due to the application of additional analysis tools sensors. Hence the minutiae points identified in the physical that match those identified in the electronic triggers the recollection identification fingerprint match of the correct document identification value by the minutiae data processing module. Resultantly the additional minutiae data e.g. chemical composition minutiae data is simply appended to the existing data structure for the document such that this information is now too associated with the originally assigned identification value.

As an additional capability the minutiae data processing module may also communicate with the extractor module in cases where a match is identified. By doing so the extractor module may further communicate relevant information to the device process or utility in which it is integrated or communicable with. Those skilled in the art will recognize the various implications of this capability as it pertains to document processing and control. For example in an inserter environment a physical document may be identified fingerprinted in order to access machine or document control instruction files relevant to that document. In this way an operator who previously had no access to the machine or document control files required to construct a document via the inserter may acquire such information by fingerprinting the document and then subsequently accessing the reference data that indicates the source location author resource link etc. of the machine and document control files. As another example consider a sorting environment wherein a physical representation of a document may be fingerprinted in order to access reference data indicative of the source location author etc. of an inbound sort scheme relevant to a particular mail article. In this scenario the physical characteristics of a single mail article e.g. an inbound mail article upon being associated with its document identification value could enable access to the appropriate inbound sort scheme relevant to the receiving organization. This would significantly reduce the amount of scheme customization required by a sorting manufacturer in adapting a newly installed sorter to an organization.

Another benefit derived from the minutiae data processing module being able to communicate back to the extractor module is in providing alerts of instances of document matches. For example when a user of a document composition tool having integrated extractor module functionality e.g. extractor enabled or fingerprint enabled wants to gain access to information regarding an original instance of a document they are currently viewing this information could be communicated to the user. Communication of the information could be in various forms such as via a pop up window being rendered to the user interface or an e mail communication. The minutiae data processing module may return the document identification value associated with the instance of document being viewed if a match between the current instance of the document and an original instance is determined along with any metadata e.g. history data event data resource data pertaining to the original. Based on this awareness the user may then be presented with one or more options that impact the instance of the document being viewed including but not limited to enabling the determined document identification value of the document being viewed to be associated with or referenced to a document identification value assigned to an edited instance of said document or enabling the application of special instructions that were used to compose the initial instance of the document for application by the current document composition tool upon which a current instance of the document is being viewed e.g. enable the Macro My Thesis Objective as used by the original document composition tool to be utilized by the current composition tool modify the user interface settings of the current document composition tool to match that of the originally used composition tool . Alternatively the extractor module may perform one or more of the above described options automatically.

Overall the document identification minutiae data matching confirmation process may be configured to be performed automatically by the minutiae data processing module upon identification of a match or invoked by the user via the user interface. In the case of invocation by the user this process may be accomplished by means of a command line interface or from the clicking of a button from the graphical user interface of the current document or printstream composition tool e.g. button on a toolbar reading GET FINGERPRINT . Those skilled in the art will recognize that various techniques for integrating or embedding additional functionality into software applications are well known e.g. Google toolbar for integration within a web browser and that any means for doing so is within the scope of the teachings herein.

Reference is now made to which depicts an exemplary high level postal network wherein a document may be processed. The postal network may include a plurality of mail distribution and processing facilities including sectional center facilities SCFs bulk mail centers BMCs and automated area distribution centers AADCs . Various rules apply for directing mail between these facilities based upon various factors such as the type of information placed onto a mail item e.g. 3 digit vs. 5 digit ZIP Code the rate category for which the mail qualifies etc. In the exemplary depiction a document destined for Dallas is first received and processed by a postal facility from which the document originated located in Chicago. Various types of processing may be performed upon the mail piece by the Chicago postal facility such as stamping of special instructions labeling of the document the addition or correction of address information for forwarding purposes the addition of written marks sorting by a mail processing and or transport device etc. Similar processing may also be performed once the document is received by the Dallas postal facility . Both facilities may also employ one or more analysis tools sensor suites such as cameras and or barcode scanners for processing a document. The occurrence of the above described processing events represent instances wherein minutiae data pertaining to the document may be perceived subsequently extracted then logged associated with a document identification value and or matched for document identification purposes. Hence an extractor module and minutiae data processing module may be employed in a manner as described previously to acquire and or interpret minutiae data pertaining to a document.

As such minutiae data pertaining to a document such as an envelope containing various inserts and or documents may be maintained from the moment of arrival to an initial postal processing facility through the postal network to the time the delivery is to be directed to the intended recipient . To enable data extraction an extractor module may be execute upon the various sorters transport devices barcode scanners cameras or other analysis tools utilized within the facility. Likewise the minutiae data processing module may reside locally e.g. upon a server operable within each postal facility or remotely such as by a third party provider. When the document is identified as being associated with an existing document identification value any new minutiae data may be appended to the existing minutiae data accordingly. Of interest to those skilled in the art is the capability of accessing various event data such as postal sorting machine ID or timestamp data by referencing the document identification value for enabling persistent tracking of the document as it continues further throughout the subsequent observation collection phase of its lifecycle and further into the document representation phase .

Additional processing that may occur during the document representation phase beyond postal network processing is depicted in . When a document e.g. stock certificate is received by a recipient this document may be further processed by one or more extractor enabled analysis tools sensors for gaining more information regarding the document e.g. it s history source of origination authenticity . For example a micro macroscopic analysis tool e.g. SEM machine may be employed in order to generate internal structure based minutiae data pertaining to the document . In transmitting the minutiae data to the minutiae data processing module it may be compared to determine if it matches any existing minutiae data previously associated with the document via a document identification value. If a match is determined an identification alert may be transmitted to the recipient or the analysis tool wherein the alert is displayed to an LCD display resident upon the device . Additionally the data on record may be updated to include additional minutiae data not previously identified e.g. a pen mark applied by the recipient to the physical document as well as the updating of any metadata e.g. time stamp data analysis tool ID data recipient ID data .

In addition or alternatively the document may also be processed by one or more extractor enabled electronic representation mediums corresponding to the document representation phase . Devices of this nature include but are not limited to fax machines scanners image capturing devices digital cameras and any other devices for generating an electronic representation of the physical document . Minutiae data as acquired from the processing of the physical document by these devices may be passed on to the minutiae data processing module for updating of an existing data structure pertaining to the document in instances where the document s unique identification value was determined .

The document when processed by one or more of the electronic representation devices may also be rendered for display via one or more computing devices . For example when the document is scanned by the scanner device the image representative of the scanned document may be rendered to the user interface for observation. When the computing device is extractor enabled a determination as to whether or not the document being viewed matches any existing document identification value may be performed in accordance with the process described earlier. In instances where no identification value is identified for the rendered document this indicates the observance of a previously unidentified document. In such a case a document identification value may be assigned accordingly. Essentially where the document is scanned imaged or in any way rendered for display electronically this represents an occasion for the collection of minutiae data pertaining to the formatting display instructions and any other data descriptive of the physical characteristics or content of the document. Hence practitioners of the art will recognize that the ability to initially assign a document with a unique identification value need not be limited to the electronic collection phase . Furthermore it will be recognized that the document lifecycle and or processing phases and as presented herein need not occur in a sequential order. Indeed any instance wherein an extractor module is resident or communicable with a device capable of processing a document provides a means for data extraction and or document identification.

Reference is now made to which depicts a high level distributed extractor module environment for enabling document identification. A centralized document identification value management provider may maintain a secure server for regulating access to a minutiae data processing module . The server may also maintain a central document minutiae database wherein all document identification values and their associated minutiae data and or metadata information is stored. In accordance with the teachings extractor modules and may be executable in connection with one or more analysis tools sensors vision system scanner device inserter or sorter control computers barcode scanners . In addition the extractor module may be executable in connection with various document composition tools and or printstream composition tools for composing documents and or printstream manipulating print file data . As documents are operated upon at various phases of processing extracted minutiae data is sent to the server for processing by the minutiae data processing module represented by the solid arrows and . As stated previously the minutiae data processing module may itself be distributed such that it may operate or reside locally or in proximity to the various extractor modules for which it communicates. However as a centralized device module or process maintained by a minutiae data service provider increased integrity of the minutiae data compiled to the document minutiae database may be maintained as only limited access to such data could be granted. In addition greater management of the myriad of extractor enabled devices may be maintained such as by requiring the registration of an extractor enabled device with the minutiae data service provider before enabling minutiae data collection or document identification value requests to be granted.

Additional clarification of the document fingerprinting processes beyond the functional operation of the system as defined in the preceding figures is obtained by explaining the processes in a flow diagram format . defines the document fingerprinting process starting with the document in electronic format referred to as the pre print phase. Even though the document fingerprinting process will be explained in terms of the identification and tracking of documents that will be inserted into an envelope for eventual mailing to the recipient the document fingerprinting processes not limited to this example. Any document that is created from an electronic media can be fingerprinted and tracked using the techniques described. Electronic document composition is a suite of tools or an integrated product that collects data from numerous sources such as accounting graphics and marketing departments to build a document to be delivered to a customer or mail recipient. The structure and content of the document is defined in this step therefore all the information is present that is required to eventually create the physical document.

Document fingerprinting requires that minutiae regarding the document be collected at multiple stages during the documents creation and utilization. Extraction may be performed at the time of composition and or after a print file has been created. If extraction has been enabled at the composition point then minutiae features that can be used to identify the document after print are collected . Minutiae is used in a very general sense throughout the document fingerprinting process to mean any features of a document that can be used to recognize the document each time it is observed during the life cycle of the document. At the composition step text graphics and numeric information is defined as well as the location coordinates if the item on the page for each composition item. This data is collected from the composition tool and catenated with document identification ID and metadata .

The document ID may be assigned by the system or created using the stored minutiae data. Since the minutiae data is not identical for any two documents if examined in sufficient detail an algorithm can be used to generate a unique document ID using the stored minutiae data. One example could be a cyclic redundancy check CRC which is a type of hash function used to produce a checksum a small fixed number of bits generated from a block of a computer file which contains the document minutiae. Those skilled in the art may select other algorithms that are more efficient at creating a unique ID from data stored in a computer file. Metadata is used in a general context which refers to any data that is stored about the document that has been fingerprinted. This data may include the name of the addressee the date created the operator using the composition tool and numerous other data points. Many additional data fields will be added each time action is taken on the document or each time the document is observed. The metadata defines all information relevant about the document throughout its life cycle.

Even if extraction of minutiae is performed at the composition point a print file in one of the standard formats Advanced Function Presentation AFP Printer Control Language PCL or Hewlett Packard Graphics Language HPGL is created so that the document may be printed . This provides an opportunity to extract minutiae from the print file that will be used to recognize the printed document. Since the print file contains all of the data or atoms of information plus the printer control data very detailed minutiae can be extracted. These minutiae will be different and more detailed than the minutiae that are extracted from the composition step . In some instances the print file will go through a re compose step where additional information is added to the print file plus format changes are incorporated. In this case step would be repeated since the minutiae data would change to represent the document that is going to be printed. Depending on the document identification requirements the document fingerprinting system can be setup to fingerprint all pages in a document or just the first page. Fingerprinting all pages gives more flexibility in recognition of the document but adds considerably to the processing and data storage requirements.

If both composition and print file minutiae and metadata exist then the data must be merged by appending new information excluding redundant data and generating a new document ID . The ID minutiae and metadata are passed to the minutiae data processing module which controls any updates or additions to the document minutiae database . The document minutiae database and minutiae data processing module may be hosted locally within an Automated Document Factory ADF or hosted remotely using a wide are network WAN . The WAN network maybe the World Wide Web or it maybe a dedicated network using T1 lines or their equivalent. In either case security protocol such as encryption may be used depending on the user s requirements. The document minutiae database may be divided into multiple databases that are used locally for a specific job runs or the database maybe hosted and is a global database that is accessible to many processing functions and users.

In the mail processing example an additional process is required to create the Inserting Data File IDF that is used to control the inserter for document assembly insert feeder control insertion into an envelope and application of postage in the output section based on projected weight of the finished mail piece. All of this IDF data will be used to control the inserter after the document is recognized based on its fingerprint during the initial infeed of the document into the inserter. The inserter control data generation can be accomplished by associating the fingerprint document ID with control information created during document composition or by analysis of the print file. The ability to extract IDF data is well understood by those skilled in the art. An alternate approach is to include the IDF data as metadata that is stored in the document minutiae database . When the document is identified upon entry into the inserter the IDF data would be extracted from the metadata and provided to the inserter control system.

The next process to be described occurs at the first observation of the printed copy of the document referred to as the post print phase. The post print phase involves document recognition if a document minutiae database entry was created pre print and creation of new or additional minutiae data using the sensor suit available at the observation location. depicts the first observation of the document post print. The printed document is loaded into the sensor suite which maybe stand alone and used to identify and track high value documents such as stock certificates. Numerous other document types maybe fingerprinted identified and tracked. For the mail example the sensor suite will be located at the input to the inserter where the paper document is first presented. A variety of sensors maybe used in the sensor suite depending on the amount of minutiae that is needed to uniquely identify the document. A list of possible sensors is shown in . An imaging sensor such as a camera or linear array image capture device will be used in nearly all cases on an inserter.

Minutiae extraction is performed using the sensor data and accompany analysis tools . In addition the imaging sensor can be used to locate the position of images such as logos and to identify the image using matching algorithms. Measurement of word count paragraph count paragraph locations on the document and heading locations are all fingerprint data that can be used for identification. Other sensors are currently available that add extra depth to the identification process by extending the fingerprint beyond what is generally used. For example high definition imaging can be used to examine the patterns created in a specific area of the document by the paper fibers or via pulp concentration. Chemical properties of the paper can be sensed and any biological content can be sensed with Polymerase Chain Reaction PCR . The magnetic properties of the ink can be used to identify the difference between water based ink and magnetic ink such MICR used in checks. Toner from laser copiers will also have different magnetic properties. Radio Frequency Identification RFID is a sensor that can be used to read encoded tags or to read a serial number off the document page that is generated from imbedded conductive fibers. The serial number may be an actual code or number or another form of recognizable pattern unique to the document page. Those skilled in the art will add additional sensors as required to ensure and unique identification of the document.

Many processing applications that use document fingerprinting will use a limited minutiae database that is applicable to the current operation. The database may be limited to those documents that were printed just before manufacturing of the mail pieces. If a unique database has been identified then the fingerprint search can be limited to that database which will contain fingerprint data collected pre print as previously described. If a fingerprint match is found then pertinent metadata can be extracted and if the fingerprint matching is for an inserter operation the IDF will be extracted and sent to the inserter control system to control the different stages in assembly of the document. Alternately the document ID is identified from the document minutiae matching process and this ID is sent to the inserter control system. For this alternative the IDF data is sent directly to the inserter control system from the composition or re composition tool. Such items as the cutters are controlled using page count data and insert feeders maybe selectively used based on the document metadata such as name of the recipient. The parameters needed for inserter control are well known by those skilled in the art. If no match is found the inserting operation will halt for corrective action by the operator. If this is not an inserting operation a new document entry will be added to the minutiae database . The minutiae data processing module is used to update the document minutiae data with the new information collected by the sensor suite . The metadata is updated with information about the document such as machine operator processing time inserter ID or other parameters that relate to the first observation of the printed document. For observation of other types of documents beyond those that are being processed on an inserter numerous other parameters maybe added to the metadata as required by the application.

If a limited minutiae database is not available then the global database will be searched to find a fingerprint match. This global database maybe hosted in the local facility or could be part of the networked database. If a match is found in the global database then the document if is passed to the minutiae data processing module for extraction of metadata. The process then continues as described above. If no match is found the inserting operation will halt for corrective action by the operator. If this is not an inserting operation a new document entry will be added to the minutiae database . The data added to the minutiae database will include the minutiae data metadata and document ID.

Numerous intermediate processing steps are involved before the envelope is finally delivered. Each of these intermediate steps involves sorting the mailpiece based on its delivery point. defines the processing steps in a sorting center . The mailpiece along with all other mailpieces to be sorted are loaded onto the sorter for processing. The sorter feeder separates each mailpiece so they can be individually processed into the sensor suite on the sorter . Minutiae data is extracted from the sensor data as previously described in the extractor module. The extracted minutiae data is compared to data in the global minutiae database to find a match . If not match is found an error has occurred and the mailpiece is rejected and will have to be manually processed. When a match is found the delivery point data is extracted from the minutiae database metadata . The delivery point generally will be a ZIPCODE for USPS applications. The delivery point data is then used to control the sorting of the mailpiece into the correct sort bin that is associated with the delivery point and the sort scheme being used on the sorter . Once the sort is complete the minutiae data processing module will update the metadata associated with the document ID just processed . The metadata may include but is not limited to processing time location operator or other parameters important to tracking the document. The sorting process is repeated numerous times at different locations during the delivery process . The process defined in will be repeated each time.

The process flows provided in provide one representative example of how document identification and tracking would be accomplished using the document fingerprinting concept. The example is focused on the mail processing environment but this example in no way limits the document fingerprinting approach. Those skilled in the art will adjust the processes for the banking industry that maybe tracking checks state lottery offices that maybe tracking lottery tickets security organizations tracking stock and bond certificates or insurance companies tracking claim and accident reports. summarizes the typical steps that may be included in the document identification and tracking process utilizing document fingerprinting techniques. The Pre print phase processes minutiae and metadata for the original electronic version of the document and creates a document ID file in the document minutiae database. The first observation post print phase involves two possible processes.

For process one the minutiae data needed for identification is extracted from the sensor suite data and a match is made with the document minutiae database if a pre print entry exists. The document ID in the document minutiae database is updated with new minutiae and metadata from this observation. For process two there is not pre print data available so this observation is the initial minutiae extraction event. As a result the new minutiae data and metadata is added to the document minutiae database with a new document ID. Pertinent metadata is provided to a user or subsystem as required. Subsequent observation post print is generally an observation associated with identifying the document in question and tracking it through a document life cycle of observations. In some cases the document is observed directly and in other case the document is indirectly observed since only the envelope containing it can be observed. New minutiae data is generally not added to the document minutiae database at this time. Exceptions would be if this is the first observation of the document in an envelope or a new sensor was added to the sensor suite. Metadata is added to the document minutiae database to represent this observation. Pertinent metadata is provided to a user or subsystem as required. Document representation phase is where the document is frequently converted into an electronic format for storage or forwarding to another recipient by electronic means. Minutiae can be extracted from the electronic format and used to ID the document and to obtain metadata. In addition the minutiae data maybe updated for easier future identification of the electronic version. Metadata is added to the document minutiae database to represent this observation. Devices such as but not limited to scanners FAX machines copiers and computer terminals can be document ID enabled so that extraction and document identification can be accomplished through access to a minutiae data processing module and the document minutiae database.

Those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that all of the above described analysis tools are suitable for extracting pertinent minutiae data associated with a document and that any other tools of a similar nature could be employed. Indeed in the case of various tools such as imaging tools e.g. camera readers etc. data may be collected without necessitating a decoding or interpretation of such data. For example while extraction of the various lines characters symbols or objects appearing on a document may commence with an imaging device the analysis of such information is a separate function generally performed via object character recognition OCR technology. OCR as practitioners of the art will recognize is not a necessary feature requiring employment within the context of the teachings. However OCR or barcode reading may be employed if desired such that the minutiae data may also include content information e.g. specific text phrases numbers barcode contents or combinations thereof . Again as no one minutia item is sufficient for unique identification of the document the collection of numerous matching minutiae enables unambiguous identification of a document. Therefore OCR and barcode minutiae may simply add useful data for increasing the confidence factor in identifying a document.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that the teachings herein promote identification of documents throughout their lifecycle regardless of OCR. Since the document is recognized identified and tracked based principally on features of the document that are an integral part of the document there is no requirement to create unique identifiers such as barcodes sequence numbers or other special features that exist for the purpose of uniquely identifying the document. Removal of these unique identifiers e.g. barcodes eliminates the cost of generating the identifier and the detrimental effect of disfiguring the document with printed matter that has nothing to do with the intended content of the document. Since the teachings as presented herein involve employment of many different document attributes minutiae including physical e.g. print feature information and structural e.g. internal composition textual makeup characteristics errors in optical character reading and barcode reading are eliminated and replaced with a robust process that utilizes many redundant matching criteria to achieve the high confidence document identification demanded by current and future document processing systems.

As another feature the teachings presented herein need not be limited to use for identification of mail items or for use within mail processing environments. For example consider an instance wherein a bill paper money processing device is operational with respect to an extractor module. In the absence of said extractor module bill processing devices are limited to verifying bill types the general orientation of the bill upon insertion through the device and perhaps whether the bill is a valid one. With an extractor module however minutiae data respective to the bill may be compiled and then processed as described before such as to determine a match or generate a unique identification value at the present point of the bill s lifecycle. Those skilled in the art will recognize the unique implications afforded by such a capability as it pertains to tracking of bills counterfeit detection location detection etc. In this light modern day bill tracking services such a Where s George which require manual processing of unique identifiers associated with a bill in question need not be used. Practitioners of the art will recognize that this is but a single example of varying uses of the teachings.

Although the discussion above has focused largely on the methodologies those skilled in the art will recognize that those methodologies may be embodied in specific equipment systems or devices. Also many of the operations described above may be carried out by processing and or associated execution of software firmware or microcode operating on processors or computers of any type used to provide the functionalities of the servers client devices and or programmed control for the various manufacturing mail processing elements shown in the drawings. Additionally code for implementing such operations may be in the form of computer instruction in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in or carried by any computer or machine readable medium.

As known in the data processing and communications arts each such general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor an internal communication bus various types of memory RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory etc. disk drives or other code and data storage systems and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The computer system also may be coupled to a display and one or more user input devices not shown such as alphanumeric and other keys of a keyboard a mouse a trackball etc. as represented generally by the workstation in the example of workstation in or computer in . The display and user input element s together form a service related user interface for interactive control of the operation of the computer system. These user interface elements may be locally coupled to the computer system for example in a workstation configuration or the user interface elements may be remote from the computer and communicate therewith via a network.

Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Media include any or all of the memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software.

As used herein terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Physical transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

