---

title: Treatment of conditions related to shock
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for prevention or treatment of physiological shock by administering a specific therapeutic agent, which is able to use smaller volumes of reagent to achieve complete inhibition, than other previously described techniques.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09272034&OS=09272034&RS=09272034
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09272034
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081006
---
This application is a U.S. national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of the PCT application with Ser. No. PCT US2008 011529 filed Oct. 6 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 977 587 filed Oct. 4 2007 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 980 430 filed Oct. 16 2007 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety into this disclosure.

This invention was made with government support under HL 10881 HL 067825 and HL 43026 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to treatment of shock. In particular the present invention relates to treatment of conditions related to shock.

Shock is a life threatening complication in situations associated with trauma including burns surgery ischemia sepsis and other critical care applications. Shock is a broad term that describes a group of circulatory syndromes all of which result in general cellular hypoxia. This leads to a depletion of the adenosine triphosphate ATP the failure of the sodium potassium pump mitochondrial dysfunction and ultimately the release of a variety of toxic substances including superoxides. Superoxides are toxic to essentially all tissues. They react with proteins and cause unfolding and are able to induce DNA damage. Additionally cellular activation in the circulation can be detected by leukocytes or endothelial cells resulting in superoxide production pseudopod projections enzyme release cytokine release and expression of membrane adhesion molecules. Cell activation fundamentally alters the biomechanics of microvascular blood flow by a shift in rheological adhesive and cytotoxic cell properties. Eventually these stress responses give rise to irreversible cardiovascular collapse because of their combined effects on the microcirculation.

There are few satisfactory drugs treatment methods or interventions available for the prevention of conditions related to shock. Most currently available methods for the treatment of such conditions related to shock deal with the symptoms rather than the cause. For this reason current clinical approaches are limited in their efficacy and can only prevent further damage from occurring.

Thus there is a need in the art for a more effective treatment of conditions related to shock. The treatment should be simple to administer effective and capable of aiding in emergency situations.

The present invention is a technique for treatment of conditions related to physiological shock by administering a more specific combination of therapeutic agents which is able to use smaller volumes of reagent to achieve complete inhibition than other previously described methods for example that in U.S. Pat. No. 6 534 283 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The present invention is based upon a new hypothesis for the cause of shock and multi organ failure self digestion through gut ischemic complications rather than bacterial endotoxin invasion.

The present invention dramatically reduces symptoms of multi organ failure and mortality in septic shock associated with leakage of cecal material into the peritoneum e.g. cecal ligation shock . Furthermore the present invention reduces symptoms of insulin resistance in shock e.g. septic hemorrhagic and cecal ligation shock . The methods were tested and verified in various animal studies as discussed below.

In experimental models it was demonstrated that blockade of pancreatic enzymes in the lumen of the intestine in combination with treatment against cytotoxicity in the peritoneum blockade of digestive enzymes binding of cytotoxic mediators and anti bacterial treatment in the peritoneum leads to a dramatic enhancement of survival rate in a model of septic shock cecal ligation model .

In experimental models it has further been demonstrated that plasma of animals such as rats in shock produced by cecal ligation have plasma that exhibits protease activity. The activity is sufficient to cleave the binding domain of insulin on the insulin receptor alpha. Introduction of Futhane and Doxycycline attenuates the insulin receptor cleavage. It is expected that other symptoms of cell and organ dysfunction such as arterial vasospasm immune suppression enhanced permeability apoptosis etc. characteristic for shock will also be attenuated by this treatment.

Such findings lead to the present invention resulting in treatment techniques for prevention of multi organ failure and mortality in septic shock associated with leaks from intestine during surgery punctured intestine ruptured intestinal legions or appendix or other any other situation associated with leakage of intestinal material e.g. cecal or fecal matter . Further such treatments would lead to prevention of the metabolic syndromes in trauma patients and patients in the ICU.

In certain exemplary embodiments the present invention is a method for prevention or treatment of physiological shock. The method includes administering to a peritoneum of an individual a therapeutic dose of any combination of one or more of pancreatic digestive enzyme inhibitor cytotoxic mediator inhibitor and antibacterial agent.

A method according to the present invention blocks formation of inflammatory mediators by pancreatic digestive enzymes in the intestine in septic shock and thereby reduces symptoms of multi organ failure and significantly reduces mortality rate. It also serves to reduce morbidity and reduce post operative complications enhance recovery rate and shorten hospital stays.

The treatment is administered into the lumen of the intestine to block fully activated digestive enzymes and auto digestion of the intestine. The treatment is highly effective to attenuate prolonged formation of inflammation in septic shock destruction of the intestinal epithelial lining and reduces mortality. There is currently no comparable treatment for septic shock.

This invention describes techniques for treatment of conditions related to shock. Various exemplary embodiments are presented to provide a broad spectrum of treatment available and application to such conditions.

As discussed above the strategy for inhibiting gut enteral function has been described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 534 283 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. This patent describes the use of protease inhibition in the lumen of the gut in principle and more specifically using specific commercially available protease inhibitors. The current strategy proposes numerous applications related to pancreatic protease inhibitors.

In the present invention treatment is administered into the lumen of the intestine in combination with a treatment of the peritoneal cavity that can be administered after onset of shock.

In one series of experiments the inventors discovered that delayed inhibition of digestive enzymes in the lumen of the intestine reduces inflammatory markers after shock. As a clinically relevant situation the inventors examined the effectiveness of a delayed intestinal protease inhibition during reperfusion after SMAO. Male Wistar rats were exposed to superior mesenteric artery occlusion SMAO for 100 min and treated by delayed intestinal lavage beginning 40 min after reperfusion with either buffer or a reversible digestive protease inhibitor FOY 0.37 mM . Arterial pressure during reperfusion was significantly lower in shock animals compared with sham shock animals. SMAO and reperfusion without protease blockade caused the formation of leukocyte activation factors in intestinal homogenates and in plasma as well as intestinal injury and also caused a significant increase in activated leukocytes in venules of cremaster muscle. In contrast with digestive protease inhibition in the intestine delayed lavage at 40 min after reperfusion led to a highly significant restoration of the initial blood pressure before shock decreased formation of intestine derived leukocyte activation factors and intestinal injury. Delayed digestive enzyme blockade also caused lower leukocytes adhesion in post capillary venules and reduced cell death in the cremaster muscle microcirculation. Intestinal ischemia induced endotoxemia was prevented by digestive enzyme inhibition.

In summary delayed intestinal protease inhibition serves to improve experimental SMAO induced shock by reducing intestinal injury the level of cell activation in plasma and in the microcirculation and by restoring the blood pressure.

Another series of experiments were performed to show that inhibition of pancreatic digestive enzymes in the lumen of the intestine reduces the need for resuscitation in hemorrhagic shock. The inventors examined the utility of intestinal lavage in a porcine model of hemorrhagic shock. An objective of this study was to determine the effect of digestive protease blockade in the lumen of the intestine during hemorrhagic shock. The animals 16 pigs were subjected to a shock that mimics clinical events. Pigs were bled 30 ml kg over 30 minutes and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 30 mmHg for 60 minutes and shed blood was then used to maintain a pressure of 45 mmHg for three hours. Both treated pigs 6 amidino 2 naphthyl p guanidobenzoate dimethane sulfate ANGD 100 ml kg of 0.37 mM in GOLYTELY PEG 3350 and electrolytes for oral solution via a duodenal catheter at 1 liter hr directly into the lumen of the intestine and controls GOLYTELY PEG 3350 and electrolytes for oral solution only had significant reductions in protein and protease levels in the duodenum during enteroclysis however only ANGD treated animals had persistent suppression of protease activity in the intestinal lumen and in plasma throughout the experiment. Pigs with blockade of digestive enzymes had a major reduction of transfusion requirement of shed blood 18.1 4.5 ml kg versus 30 0.43 ml kg p 0.002 a significantly lower level of neutrophil activation than controls after resuscitation 31.1 3.3 versus 46.9 4.5 in controls p 0.0002 . Leukocyte infiltration into the lung was lower in treated than control animals p 0.04 and the liver and small intestine showed less injury in treated animals. In summary a digestive enzyme inhibitor given via enteroclysis significantly reduces leukocyte activation and transfusion requirements during resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock.

In another series of studies the inventors show that blockage of digestive enzymes in the lumen of the intestine attenuates microvascular inflammation in peripheral organs. These experiments were designed to examine whether inflammatory mediators generated in the intestine by digestive enzymes are released early into the circulation and may contribute to the severe systemic inflammatory response syndrome during shock a condition that involves the microcirculation in peripheral organs. Intestinal ischemia and reperfusion induced hypotension upon reperfusion was accompanied by a significant increase in the level of neutrophil activating factors in the intestine and plasma. During reperfusion a significant increase in leukocyte endothelium interactions in post capillary venules and parenchymal cell death are observed in the cremaster muscle in controls after SMAO. In contrast intra intestinal pancreatic protease inhibition gabexate mesilate 0.37 mM results in a stable blood pressure throughout the experiment. Cell activation and leukocyte endothelial interactions both in term of rolling and firm adhesion to the endothelium and cell death as measured by propidium iodine labeling in the cremaster muscle were almost completely abolished after blockade with gabexate mesilate. In addition ischemia induced intestinal mucosal injury is attenuated with intestinal pancreatic protease inhibition. In conclusion intestinal pancreatic protease inhibition significantly attenuates intestinal ischemia induced shock by reducing the systemic inflammatory response syndrome.

In another series of experiments the inventors show that digestive enzyme blockade is protective against inflammation in shock if placed inside the lumen of the intestine and less by intravenous administration. From a mechanistic point of view an important feature is the fact that the significant protection rendered by the inhibition of pancreatic digestive enzymes is only provided if the enzymes are blocked inside the lumen of the intestine. If the enzyme inhibitors are administered directly into the circulation i.v. i.a. i.m. less and in some cases no protection is achieved a feature that has been confirmed using different protease inhibitors ANGD and aprotinin . This observation supports the hypothesis that digestive enzymes in the lumen of the intestine where they are fully activated and in high concentrations are the major enzymes in acute intestinal ischemia. They produce inflammatory mediators that are carried towards the central circulation via the portal venous system but also via the intestinal lymphatics. Besides the portal venous circulation and the intestinal lymphatics the inventors showed that inflammatory mediators can also be carried directly across the intestinal wall into the peritoneal cavity along a third major pathway.

In another study the inventors show that digestive enzymes mediate microvascular inflammation in septic shock. Sepsis is accompanied by severe inflammation whose mechanism remains uncertain. The inventors examined the possibility that pancreatic digestive enzymes may also be involved in inflammation in an experimental form of septic shock with a lethal dose of endotoxin in the rat. Immediately after intravenous endotoxin administration the small intestine was subjected to intra luminal lavage with and without an inhibitor of pancreatic digestive proteases FOY gabexate mesilate . After endotoxin administration 4 mg kg gram negative control rats developed hypotension tachycardia hyperventilation and leukopenia. The intestine and plasma contained mediators that activated leukocytes. The leukocyte endothelial interaction within the cremaster muscle microcirculation was enhanced. Endotoxin administration resulted in elevated IL 6 plasma levels and histological evidence indicates liver and intestinal injury. In contrast blockade of pancreatic proteases in the intestinal lumen significantly improved hemodynamic parameters and reduces all indices of inflammation in plasma as well as cell injury in peripheral skeletal muscle microcirculation. These experiments indicate that inflammatory mediators derived from the intestine by digestive proteases may be involved in the prolonged inflammatory response and may sustain symptoms of sepsis after an endotoxin challenge. A bolus administration of endotoxin causes a transient inflammation response and elevated intestinal permeability. But the sustained inflammation that leads to multi organ failure in this situation is caused by auto digestion due to escape of pancreatic digestive enzymes from the lumen of the intestine due to the elevated mucosal permeability.

A study of the long term survival after blockade of digestive enzymes provided further support to the findings. In preparation for this application the inventors carried out pilot studies in the rat with a hemorrhagic b endotoxic and c cecal ligation shock followed by an observation period for two weeks until normal cage activities were recorded in survivors. Without food restriction in hemorrhagic shock the mean blood pressure was reduced for two hours to 35 mmHg followed by return of all blood volume but no further resuscitation. The digestive enzymes were blocked at 1 hour after hypotension by direct infusion of ANGD 0.37 mM 15 ml into the intestinal lumen after a temporary exposure via a midline incision. In endotoxic shock the rats received gram negative endotoxin 5 mg kg i.v. the digestive enzymes were blocked in the same way at 1 hour after endotoxin administration. No other agent was administered. In cecal ligation shock both the digestive enzymes in the lumen of the intestine as well as inside the peritoneum were blocked with ANGD. Untreated controls in each model of shock had high mortality within less than 8 hours while blockade of the digestive enzymes ANGD in each shock model lead to a significantly enhanced survival rate Table I . In contrast to untreated controls all treated survivors returned after anesthesia within hours to normal activity walking climbing grooming drinking eating bowel movements and within 3 days to normal weight gain. Furthermore treatment with alternative serine protease inhibitors CYCLOKAPRON tranexamic acid TRASYLOL aprotinin in cecal ligation shock gave significant survival rates 5 5 rats P

It was further shown that plasma of shock rats has protease activity and causes cleavage of the extracellular domain of the insulin receptor E cadherin and CAT 1. In all forms of shock there is consistently proteolytic activity in plasma. Therefore the inventors investigated the ability of central venous plasma of rats in hemorrhagic shock collected at 4 hours to cleave the extracellular domain of the insulin receptor a by using an antibody against the extracellular binding domain of insulin combined with membrane receptor density measurements. Exposure of normal donor cells to plasma from shock rats but not to plasma of control rats causes extensive cleavage of the insulin binding domain. Furthermore this cleavage causes also a reduction of the glucose transport into the cell cytoplasm. These results show that the plasma enzymatic activity may be responsible for the development of insulin resistance typical for patients in shock. The activity can be significantly blocked with ANGD by more than 50 results not shown suggesting that proteases are a major component of this enzyme activity. There is also a significant cleavage of the extracellular domain of the tight junction protein E cadherin in intestinal epithelium and CAT 1 in leukocytes.

Another recent study by the inventors listed as item 9 below and which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety showed that pancreatic enzymes generate cytotoxic mediators in the intestine. And thus there exists a link between the permeability increase in the intestinal wall and the early stages of shock with formation of inflammatory and cytotoxic factors. These factors may either be already present in form of digested food or may be created by action of digestive enzymes on interstitial structures after entry into the intestinal wall and may cause the intestinal necrosis observed in shock. We have shown that both individual serine proteases and fluid from the lumen of the intestine with endogenous proteases have the ability to generate cytotoxicity from intestinal wall homogenates and that luminal fluid may also generate cytotoxicity from homogenized food. These findings further support the hypothesis that lavage of the content of the small intestine with broad spectrum inhibitors may be protective in shock in line with experimental evidence. There is a need to identify the actual biochemical structure of the cytotoxic factors and determine their mechanism of action.

In another follow up study listed as item 10 below and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety the inventors sought to show that the intestine is a source of cytotoxic mediators in shock and the role of free fatty acids and degradation of lipid binding proteins. In this study the inventors showed that using chloroform methanol separation of rat small intestine homogenates into lipid fractions and aqueous and sedimented protein fractions and measuring cell death caused by those fractions it was found that the cytotoxic factors are lipid in nature. Recombining the lipid fraction with protein fractions prevented cell death except when homogenates were protease digested. Using a fluorescent substrate the inventors found high levels of lipase activity in intestinal homogenates and cytotoxic levels of free fatty acids. Addition of albumin a lipid binding protein prevented cell death unless the albumin was previously digested with protease. Homogenization of intestinal wall in the presence of the lipase inhibitor orlistat prevented cell death after protease digestion. In vivo orlistat plus the protease inhibitor aprotinin administered to the intestinal lumen significantly improved survival time compared with saline in a splanchnic arterial occlusion model of shock. These results indicate that major cytotoxic mediators derived from an intestine under in vitro conditions are free fatty acids FFAs . Breakdown of free fatty acid binding proteins by proteases causes release of free fatty acids to act as powerful cytotoxic mediators.

The discovery further includes clarification of the mechanism that leads to insulin resistance. It is shown that one of the ways that the present invention works is due to enzymatic cleavage of the insulin binding domain and introduction of proteases attenuates the process.

There is currently no generally accepted treatment algorithm or protocol for treatment of insulin resistance in shock. Limited options include insulin administration.

In another recent study listed as item 11 below and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety the inventors showed that there is a relationship between proteinase activity and receptor cleavage and that there appears to be a mechanism for insulin resistance in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The inventors hypothesized that enhanced proteolytic activity in the microcirculation of spontaneously hypertensive rats SHRs may be a pathophysiological mechanism causing cell membrane receptor cleavage and examined this for 2 different receptors. Immunohistochemistry of matrix degrading metalloproteinases matrix metalloproteinase MMP 9 protein showed enhanced levels in SHR microvessels mast cells and leukocytes compared with normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats. In vivo microzymography shows cleavage by MMP 1 and 9 in SHRs that colocalizes with MMP 9 and is blocked by metal chelation. SHR plasma also has enhanced protease activity. The inventors demonstrated with an antibody against the extracellular domain that the insulin receptor density is reduced in SHRs in line with elevated blood glucose levels and glycohemoglobin. There is also cleavage of the binding domain of the leukocyte integrin receptor CD18 in line with previously reported reduced leukocyte adhesion. Blockade of MMPs with a broad acting inhibitor doxycycline 5.4 mg kg per day reduces protease activity in plasma and microvessels blocks the proteolytic cleavage of the insulin receptor the reduced glucose transport normalizes blood glucose levels and glycohemoglobin levels and reduces blood pressure and enhanced microvascular oxidative stress of SHRs. The results suggest that elevated MMP activity leads to proteolytic cleavage of membrane receptors in the SHR e.g. cleavage of the insulin receptor binding domain associated with insulin resistance.

Further there is currently no generally accepted treatment algorithm or protocol for septic shock. There is an FDA approved treatment with activated protein C XIGRIS drotrecogin alfa activated Eli Lilly which gives a minor but confirmed survival benefit. However even such treatment has been called into question as more recent trials could not confirm the effectiveness of activated protein C.

Treatment of septic shock is based on supportive care by treating the underlying infection appropriate antibiotics within the first 4 8 hours of presentation and on restoring tissue perfusion with a combination of fluid resuscitation e.g. albumin lactated or hypertonic saline and vasopressor administration e.g. noreinephrine .

In an exemplary embodiment the present invention involves several components which may be performed independently or in combination. One component of a treatment according to the present invention includes administration of a pancreatic enzyme inhibitor directly into the lumen of the intestine by oral administration introduction via an esophageal catheter direct injection into the lumen of the intestine during surgery etc . The agents to be used individually or in combination include but are not limited to FUTHAN nafamostat mesilate 0.37 mM TRASYLOL aprotinin Bayer 1.4 mg ml serine protease inhibitor CYKLOKAPRON tranexamic acid Pfizer 1.4 mg ml serine protease inhibitor broad based MMP inhibitors e.g. doxycycline orlistat 5 to 50 mg ml lipase inhibitor plus any other pancreatic enzyme inhibitor. The amount administered may be adjusted according to intestine size and enzyme levels to achieve complete blockade of digestive enzyme activity.

A second component of a treatment according to the present invention includes treatment of the peritoneum by a combination of three protective interventions blockade of pancreatic digestive enzymes serine proteases lipases as outlined in the first component described above blockade of cytotoxic lipid derived mediators e.g. free fatty acids with free fatty acid binding proteins e.g. albumin and others antibacterial treatment against gram positive and gram negative bacteria that have entered into the peritoneal space with antibiotic treatment e.g. ciprofloxacin metronidazole imipenem and cilastatin ticarcillin and clavulanate cefuroxime . Further effectiveness of the treatment is achieved by peritoneal intraintestinal lavage in combination with the treatments listed above.

The administration of the serine proteases and MMPs with broad spectrum blockers as outlined in the first component described above may be alternatively or additionally performed through an intravenous i.v. route.

The present invention may be used in numerous medical treatments including but not limited to treatment for prevention of multi organ failure and mortality in septic shock. Any lipase inhibitor in combination with a pancreatic or leukocyte derived protease inhibitor may have utility to prevent inflammation in septic shock.

In one exemplary embodiment which may be used for treatment for prevention of post operational complications including multi organ failure sepsis morbidity and mortality pancreatic protease inhibition is initiated to reduce complications and hospital stay after trauma surgery. Here it has been shown that pancreatic enzymes in the intestine have the ability to generate powerful inflammatory mediators and that blockade of pancreatic enzymes in the lumen of the intestine attenuates inflammatory symptoms after different shock models.

In this embodiment the present invention allows a reduction in inflammatory symptoms and complications swelling embolism formation selected organ dysfunction pulmonary embolism incidence of stroke patient mobility morbidity multi organ failure mortality in any form of elective surgery general anesthesia associated with elevated risks such as prolonged surgery procedures surgery with bypass requirements surgery on patients with preconditions and risk factors surgery involving the intestine and pancreas . This results in a reduction in post surgical complications enhance wound healing reduce total recovery period and reduce hospitalization requirements and time.

In elective surgery pre administration of a pancreatic enzyme inhibitor may be conducted directly into the lumen of the intestine by oral administration introduction via an esophageal catheter direct injection into the lumen of the intestine during surgery . The agents to be used are individually or in combination FUTHAN nafamostat mesilate 0.1 mM TRASYLOL aprotinin Bayer 1.4 mg ml serine protease inhibitor CYKLOKAPRON tranexamic acid 1.4 mg ml serine protease inhibit orlistat 5 to 50 mg ml lipase inhibitor plus any other pancreatic enzyme inhibitor. The amount administered is adjusted according to intestine size to achieve complete blockade of digestive enzyme activity. The inhibitor is administered prior to general anesthesia surgery as pretreatment.

This is the first intervention against a major source of inflammation in multi organ failure associated with surgery general anesthesia. Blockade of digestive enzymes prior to general anesthesia may serve to preserve barrier properties of the intestinal mucosa reduce inflammation in the central circulation and consequently reduce recovery and wound healing periods post surgical complications hospital stays etc.

A potentially useful application of the digestive enzyme inhibition as pre treatment is for patients subjected to radiation or chemotherapeutic treatment. It could also work for radiation treatment under other circumstances to reduce symptoms of multi organ failure.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a method for pancreatic protease inhibition in septic shock. There are many uses for this embodiment including but not limited to treatment for prevention of multi organ failure and mortality in septic shock. Such treatment works by blocking formation of inflammatory mediators by pancreatic digestive enzymes in the intestine in septic shock and thereby reducing symptoms of multi organ failure and mortality.

The treatment is administered into the lumen of the intestine to block fully activated digestive enzymes and auto digestion of the intestine. The treatment is highly effective to attenuate prolonged formation of inflammation in septic shock destruction of the intestinal epithelial lining and reduces mortality.

It is demonstrated that blockade of pancreatic enzymes in the lumen of the intestine attenuates inflammatory symptoms after administration of a lethal dose of endotoxin 6 mg kg . Experiments demonstrate reduced long term mortality in the same sepsis model.

Administration of a pancreatic enzyme inhibitor may be conducted directly into the lumen of the intestine by oral administration introduction via an esophageal catheter direct injection into the lumen of the intestine during surgery . The agents to be used are individually or in combination FUTHAN nafamostat mesilate 0.1 mM TRASYLOL aprotinin 1.4 mg m serine protease inhibitor orlistat 5 to 50 mg ml lipase inhibitor plus any other pancreatic enzyme inhibitor. The amount administered is adjusted according to intestine size to achieve complete blockade of digestive enzyme activity.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is used for pancreatic lipase inhibition to reduce mortality after shock. This embodiment is very useful for developing treatment for prevention of multi organ failure and mortality in hemorrhagic shock preventive treatment to reduce the probability for development of multi organ failure in elective surgery long term treatment to reduce production of lipid derived inflammatory mediators associated in chronic diseases. It is also particularly useful because there does not appear to be any treatment proposed to attenuate inflammation by blockade of lipase activity in the intestine in either acute or chronic inflammatory conditions.

This embodiment is designed as an intervention to block the lipase activity in the lumen of the intestine and also in the general circulation in those cases in which lipase enters from the lumen of the intestine into the circulation. This prevents formation of lipid derived inflammatory or cytotoxic mediators in shock and other inflammatory diseases and attenuate multi organ failure in shock and chronic inflammation in diseases like hypertension diabetes the metabolic syndrome cancers and in chronic degenerative diseases.

Recent evidence resulting in this invention suggests that a major component of inflammatory mediators from the intestine in shock causing multi organ failure and mortality e.g. after surgery general anesthesia trauma chronic diseases and any other condition leading multi organ failure is derived from the action of pancreatic lipases lipid splitting enzymes . Blockade of pancreatic lipase serves to reduce mortality during shock and reduce inflammation that leads to multi organ failure. Blockade of pancreatic lipase prior to general anesthesia may serve to preserve barrier properties of the intestinal mucosa reduce inflammation in the central circulation and consequently reduce recovery and wound healing periods post surgical complications hospital stays etc.

The inventors have shown that the ischemic intestine produces a powerful set of lipid derived cytotoxic mediators and that the blockade of lipase in the intestine under in vitro conditions blocks the production of lipid derived cytotoxic mediators.

In elective surgery pre administration of a pancreatic enzyme inhibitor directly into the lumen of the intestine by oral administration introduction via an esophageal catheter direct injection into the lumen of the intestine during surgery may have a positive effect on recovery. The agents to be used are individually or in combination orlistat 5 to 50 mg ml lipase inhibitor plus any other pancreatic enzyme inhibitor. The amount administered is adjusted according to intestine size and content to achieve complete blockade of digestive enzyme activity. As treatment the inhibitor is administered after trauma or sepsis associated with risk for shock and multi organ failure. As pretreatment the inhibitor is administered prior to general anesthesia surgery.

The above exemplary embodiments have shown various uses and techniques for decreasing certain conditions related to shock. Thus as a whole the present invention is based on data from animal studies that show dramatic reduction in life threatening shock by inhibiting a body s own aggressive digestive enzymes. This novel approach targets trigger mechanisms in auto digestion before it launches lethal inflammatory cascade.

Death from heart lung and kidney failure during shock due to inadequate blood flow can be prevented by an unusual experimental treatment that inhibits the aggressive enzymes that are produced in body to digest food.

The invention provides evidence from recent animal studies that for the first time studies showed that blockade of the digestive enzymes during shock leads to long term survival. The results show a dramatic reduction of mortality in hemorrhagic shock induced multi organ failure. This treatment holds great promise for future clinical application particularly in emergency rooms and before high risk surgeries. When a person is in shock his or her life is on the line. The patient s survival may be in jeopardy not just that day but within an hour because healthy organs can fail and die in rapid succession.

An estimated 1 million cases of various types of shock are treated annually in U.S. hospital emergency rooms. Shock is a serious medical condition with a fatality rate of approximately 29 . While the optimal management of shock patients can improve survival rates overall shock remains a condition with a high death rate.

Administering a drug to inhibit the body s digestive enzymes is a relatively new approach that was begun in the past decade. In 1998 a finding was made in laboratory studies on the body s inflammatory cascade and the factors that turn this normal tissue healing biological process into a virulent out of control firestorm against the body s normal tissue.

The researchers then began animal studies. The present invention is based on the latest research using rodent models of human hemorrhagic shock. Here it has been discovered that the sudden lowering of blood pressure that occurs in people suffering from stroke can provoke the body s digestive enzymes to break down the body s own intestinal tissue as if it were food. Such enzymes abnormal actions may be defined as auto digestion. Auto digestion is dangerous because not only does it injure healthy tissue but also contributes to multi organ failure which can be fatal.

The healthy cells of the animals intestinal tissue react to auto digestion by releasing a slew of substances that can be toxic to the heart and other body organs. These substances termed cytotoxic mediators can reach these body organs via the blood stream. In their latest studies shock was induced in 19 lab rodents all of which were then treated with therapies that mirror the emergency room care given to many human patients who suffer shock which typically occurs when blood flow to the heart lungs and other body organs is slowed as a result of trauma dehydration heart attack or stroke.

A total of 10 of the 19 lab rodents in shock were also treated with the experimental digestive enzyme inhibitor called ANGD. Eight of the ten survived. However only one of the nine untreated animals in shock survived. The other eight animals died from organ failure within 12 hours. Although these untreated animals did not receive ANGD the inhibitor they were given basic shock care. The enzyme inhibitor ANGD dramatically improved the survival rate among the lab animals in which shock had been induced.

In the pig studies the scientists also are conducting experiments to identify the time period when the experimental treatment will be the most effective in saving lives. The findings will be relevant to the emergency care of human patients in shock. Data indicate that the early the treatment occurs the better the chances for survival. Current research indicates that the window of opportunity for the treatment to be effective does not seem to be very narrow.

The discovery of the auto digestion process and their positive findings from the experimental treatment ANGD are based on National Institutes of Health funded basic research to determine the origin of the inflammatory cascade that causes organ failure and death. Basically inflammatory is the body s mechanism to repair to heal tissue. But in shock the inflammation never stops. It is out of control. Normally the body senses when the inflammatory process has completed its job and brings it to a halt.

There is little surprise that tissue can be severely damaged by the actions the body s digestive enzymes which are secreted by the pancreas but do not become activated until they arrive into the intestines. Digestive enzymes have to be very aggressive and there has to be lots of them for the body to efficiently digest to break down the food that we eat. Normally the intestinal tissue is protected from these enzymes by a layer of secreted mucus and by the tight packing of the cells in the intestinal wall. The enzymes are too big to defuse between these cells under normal conditions.

The following references some as cited above are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety into this disclosure 

The foregoing disclosure of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the present invention the specification may have presented the method and or process of the present invention as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the present invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

