---

title: Multi-window/multi-target tracking (MW/MT tracking) method and system for point source objects
abstract: A sensor is used to detect and track a plurality of objects by using a separate track window for each object. Such sensors may be electro optical or infrared. Each object of interest (potential target) in the sensor FOV has a unique track window assigned. This allows independent control of video frame summing for each object to maintain a constant (optimized) signal to noise ratio (SNR) over an extremely large signal dynamic range and reduces track jitter by the simultaneous tracking of multiple objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08218012&OS=08218012&RS=08218012
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08218012
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080318
---
Portions of the present invention may have been made in conjunction with Government funding under contract number W9113M 05 C 0115 and there may be certain rights to the Government.

The invention relates to detection and tracking of objects and more particularly to multi window multi target MW MT tracking for point source objects.

Current infrared IR seekers are limited to simultaneous detection of dim targets and tracking bright targets. Global gain integration time is used for these sensors. Existing systems compromise performance since they adjust the gain and or integration time in response to the bright objects in the field of view FOV to the detriment of the dim objects.

What is needed therefore are techniques for detection and tracking of multiple objects that have a wide range in signal to noise level.

A sensor is used to detect and track a plurality of objects by using a separate track window for each object. Such sensors operate in electro optical EO to IR bands for example. Advantages are that each object of interest potential target in the sensor FOV has a unique track window assigned. This allows independent control of video frame summing for each object to maintain a constant optimized signal to noise ratio SNR over an extremely large signal dynamic range. It also discriminates between closely spaced objects CSOs . Another advantage of this approach is a reduction of track jitter by the simultaneous tracking of multiple objects.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a method for multi window multi target MW MT tracking for point source objects comprising the steps of detecting at least one object with a focal plane array and outputting a sequence of frames wherein the sequence of frames are corrected and registered and successive frames are transformed to a new position to offset platform motion from a previous frame as detected by an inertial measurement unit assigning a unique local frame sum to each object providing one track window per object applying detection algorithms to each object and producing track files of at least one object. In an embodiment the local frame sum is independently controlled for each object. In another embodiment track jitter is reduced by simultaneous tracking of multiple objects by extracting common noise features that are inertial measurement unit IMU and platform based. For other embodiments at least one object comprises an unresolved sub pixel extent.

In embodiments target signatures comprise objects defined by a very low signal to noise ratio SNR . In other embodiments detecting objects comprises at least one detection band within visible to very long infrared wavelengths and the detection algorithms comprise Multiple Hypothesis Tracking and Probabilistic Data Association detection algorithms. In further embodiments the number of local frame sums is determined based on the brightness of the object. In other embodiments multiple track windows operate in parallel on one set of input data and spatially overlap. In another embodiment the presence of Closely Spaced Objects CSOs is determined by correlation techniques between overlapping track windows.

One embodiment provides a sensor video system to detect and track a plurality of objects. It comprises a focal plane array FPA generating N channel sampled video front end electronics receiving the N channel sampled video then generating M channel serial data and an integrated seeker electronics assembly iSEA receiving the M channel serial data wherein a unique local frame sum is assigned to each object providing one track window per detected object. Another embodiment further comprises an active band sensor. In yet another embodiment the focal plane array FPA comprises at least one infrared detector and at least one read out integrated circuit ROIC .

In other embodiments at least one infrared detector performs opto electronic conversion and at least one read out integrated circuit ROIC comprises integration time control and signal skimming and offset control. For yet other embodiments the front end electronics comprise offset control and analog to digital conversion. In another embodiment the integrated seeker electronics assembly iSEA comprises digital signal processing and digital image processing. Further embodiments include digital signal processing that comprises non uniformity correction and pixel displacement mapping.

A further embodiment is a multi window multi target MW MT tracking sensor system to detect and track a plurality of objects comprising a focal plane array FPA generating N channel sampled video front end electronics receiving the N channel sampled video generating M channel serial data an integrated seeker electronics assembly iSEA receiving the M channel serial data wherein a unique local frame sum is assigned to each object providing one track window per detected object and an active band sensor providing detection and ranging information fused with the M channel serial data producing track files of the objects.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

The apparatus described below is used to detect and track multiple unresolved significantly sub pixel dim very low signal to noise ratio SNR objects. The detection band s can be from the visible to the very long IR. In general any band s for which high quality detector arrays are available is suitable.

The next step in the processing chain is the correction of data using Non uniformity Correction NUC algorithms . This compensates for variations in response over the FOV due to optical and FPA imperfections for example. This corrected data is registered . That is successive frames are transformed to a new position to offset platform motion as detected by an Inertial Measurement Unit IMU from the previous frame. These pointing updates equal or exceed the frame rates.

Next rather than using fixed and global frame summing that may be range to object dependent a unique local frame sum is assigned to each object to provide a unique track window for each object. This has the benefit of extracting the optimum track information from each object in algorithm implementations operating over the field of regard FOR . For example with dim objects many frames of data may be used and advanced detection algorithms such as Multiple Hypothesis Tracking and Probabilistic Data Association may be employed. As a result the position update rate for these dim objects will be very low. Continuing there will likely be a range of dim and bright objects and the optimum number of frame sums for each object can be set. This has the benefit of extracting the most information higher update rate about the object while maintaining adequate SNR.

Multiple track windows can operate in parallel on the same set of input data and they may spatially overlap. Sub frame window control can provide input to registration and frame integration . This would occur if two objects of different brightness were within a few pixels of each other. This is referred to as Closely Spaced Objects CSOs . Correlation techniques between the various windows that overlap are used to determine if CSOs are present. This is valuable information supported in track files for subsequent processing that can be included for systems that have an active band laser radar for example to further examine the region.

Another advantage of tracking multiple objects is the reduction of track jitter. The MW MT Track algorithms can monitor the spectral content of the jitter for multiple tracks and extract common noise features that are IMU and platform based. This information can be used to reduce the track jitter below what would be expected for tracking a single object. Improvements to tracking unresolved dim object include 1 increased effective dynamic range for maximum information extraction 2 indication of CSOs for examination by a laser radar subsystem and 3 overall reduction of track jitter.

FPA comprises IR detector and read out integrated circuit ROIC . IR detector performs opto electronic conversion of incoming thermal signals. Read out integrated circuit performs functions of Integration Time Control Sample Hold S H Anti Blooming Signal Skimming Offset Control Multiplexing MUX and Simulated Signal Injection for built in test BIT . ROIC outputs N channel sampled video received by front end electronics .

Front end electronics perform functions including Offset Control and Analog to Digital Conversion ADC . Front end electronics then send M channel serial data to digital signal processing component of iSEA .

Digital signal processing performs functions of Non Uniformity Correction NUC Dead Pixel Mapping Electronic Image Stabilization EIS Frame Averaging and Pixel Displacement Mapping . iSEA also includes Digital Image Processing component .

Digital image processing component performs Multi Color Image Fusion Target Object Map TOM Correlation Automatic Boresight Correction ABC Target Acquisition Multi Window Multi Target Tracking Bulk Filtering Target Discrimination and Threat Negation Assessment . TOM Correlation can involve sensor receipt of ground based object data.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

