---

title: Method and system for providing wireless communication between user equipments
abstract: A method of wireless communication between user equipments includes retrieving user data and a criterion via a software application on a first wireless user equipment having communication interfaces. One of the interfaces is selected based on the criterion. The interface is used to identify wireless user equipments in a proximity of the first user equipment. A total number of user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment is determined, and, when the number is below a value, another interface is selected. The other interface is used to identify wireless user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment. A match between the user data of the first user equipment and user data of a second user equipment, causes initiation of wireless communication between the first and the second user equipments by sending to any of the user equipments a message associated with the match.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406691&OS=08406691&RS=08406691
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 08406691
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20081217
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage application of PCT International Application No. PCT SE2008 051480 filed on 17 Dec. 2008 the disclosure and content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The above referenced PCT International Application was published in the English language as International Publication No. WO 2010 071510 A1 on 24 Jun. 2010.

The invention relates to a method a system a user equipment and a computer readable medium for determining if there is a match between user data of two user equipments and for providing wireless communication between the two user equipments.

Today a number of techniques exist for facilitating more spontaneous communication between users of mobile devices user equipments like cellular telephones Personal Digital Assistants PDA s smart phones laptops etc. who are within each other s immediate physical proximity.

Such techniques typically include an application for allowing users to create profiles for themselves and the people they would like to meet. A user is then connected to proximate mobile users who fit their desired profile and once a user with like interests is identified further mobile communication is facilitated.

One viable product on the market is SmallPlanet s CrowdSurfer which is a location based mobile social software using Bluetooth technology IEEE 802.15 standard for the communication between the mobile devices. This solution enables people with the same profile and common friends to meet each other as each time a potential new contact is within 10 meters users get a Bluetooth radio signal and relationship information is available via GPRS General Packet Radio Services connections to a web site.

Another example is the product Nokia Sensor which enables users to send free messages via Bluetooth to other Nokia Sensor users within the rage of the Bluetooth communication means. In this solution the application software allows users to create a kind of mobile home page which can include a photo and personal info and when the user selects a scan command in the application the user will be able to access mobile home pages within the range of the Bluetooth communication means. After this the user can then decide whom to chat with.

US 2007 0037574 A1 discloses a method and apparatus for a location based network service and notification system in which registered users are notified of mutual social interest. Here users subscribed in a community may register in a network location either by selecting from a stored catalog of locations a fixed network that corresponds to their physical location or by the spontaneous creation of an ad hoc network based upon users who are all in the same location. After this the presence of all other users registered in the network location is presented to the user and the user is allowed to select other of the registered users. Once such selection is accomplished the user is notified if the selection is mutual.

Further background art is reflected by WO 2004 043026 A2 EP 1942455 A1 US 2006 0025169 A1 WO 03 090143 A2 WO 2008 132241 A2 and US 2005 0181763 A1.

A common purpose of the techniques described above is to facilitate communication between mobile users who do not know each other but share common interests. Such interests may include professional occupation and expertise information place of living schools and organizations previously attended to hobbies dating preferences interest in a certain product or activity etc.

However since Bluetooth technology is used for identifying whether a mobile terminal is within reach of another terminal existing solutions are greatly limited to a close physical proximity which corresponds to the range of the Bluetooth interface approximately 10 meters .

Moreover existing solutions are early examples of a of technology that are designed to create interaction between users but whenever a user employ the technology there is rarely another user out there to interact with. This in turn means that existing users often give up trying to find some other user which after some time results in the use of the technology slowly diminishing and finally dying out. The limited range also means that it is rather unlikely that a user finds another user to interact with.

Another problem related to the issue of too few users is the fact that people with similar profiles will not meet if they do not use the same software application since different applications are not compatible.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the invention to provide an improvement of the above techniques and prior art. More particularly it is an object to provide for communication between users based on matching their user data while at the same time providing a more generic communication framework that is more easily implemented.

Hence a method of providing wireless communication between user equipments is described. The method comprises the steps of retrieving user data and a predefined communication criterion via a software application residing on a first wireless user equipment having at least two communication interfaces selecting one of the communication interfaces in dependence of the predefined communication criterion identifying by using the selected communication interface wireless user equipments in a proximity of the first user equipment determining if there is a match between the user data of the first user equipment and user data of a second user equipment of the identified user equipments and initiating if a match is determined wireless communication between the first and the second user equipment by sending to any of the user equipments a message associated with the match.

The invention is advantageous in that communication between user equipments is not tied to a specific communication technology but is instead based on an architecture that takes several communication techniques into account. This in turn allows for a more versatile implementation of different software applications that connects users based on common interests. Moreover the specified combination of steps results in a quite efficient way of providing communication i.e. setting up and facilitating communication between users of two wireless user equipments and facilities implementation of specific software applications that send user data to other mobile devices.

Here the user data is typically information about a user s interests occupation or any other personal information about the user that can be used for matching against user data of another person. The predefined communication criterion is a setting defining which interface s of the communication interfaces shall be used for the communication such as a Bluetooth interface IEEE 802.15 WPAN Wireless Personal Area Network LAN Local Area Network interface 3G interface or any other interface suitable for wireless communication. The communication criterion typically depends on e.g. the software application on what type of service the application provides and or what communication preference the user has selected such as a communication range to other users.

The identification of user equipments is of course dependant on what type of communication interface is used but is per se performed according to methods known within the art for the used communication interface.

Typically the mentioned proximity of a user equipment is defined by the range of the communication interface that is currently selected for the user equipment which means that the proximity may change as communication interface is changed. Of course the proximity may also be defined by a distance value set by a user in which case a communication interface having a communicating range corresponding to the proximity conditions may be selected.

A match between user data occurs when both users have indicated for example like interests like business areas they are active within same interest in a product and service and so on.

The message associated with the match is typically a message that contains information about another user for which a match was determined but may only include information about the user equipment belonging to the person for which the match was determined.

It should be observed that denoting the user equipments as first and a second user equipment only serves the purpose of distinguishing the user equipments the second user equipment may just as well be a third or another user equipment.

The predefined communication criterion may comprise a distance value which allows for a user or another party to at least indirectly define what communication interface shall be used and as a consequence how many potential other user that may be contacted as different communication interfaces usually have different ranges . More particularly the proximity of the first user equipment may be defined by the distance value. In this case user equipments are in the proximity of the first user equipment if their distance from the first user equipment is smaller or equal than the distance value.

The selecting of one of the communication interfaces may comprise selecting the interface in dependence of a type of the software application residing on the first user equipment which provides for e.g. a more versatile third party implementation of software applications that facilitates connection of users with common interests. Here some different types of software applications include e.g. social networking applications advertisement applications dating applications gaming applications etc. In brief selecting the interface in dependence of a type of software application means that the application has a setting that defines which communication interface s shall be selected and optionally in which order the interfaces shall be selected in case several different interfaces may be selected.

The initiating of the wireless communication may be performed if the predefined communication criterion of the first user equipment is fulfilled and or if a predefined communication criterion of the second user equipment is fulfilled which increases a user s possibility to define his own privacy setting and ensures more reliable identification of common interests.

The method comprises the step of determining a total number of identified user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment and if the number is below a predetermined value selecting another communication interface of the two communication interfaces and identifying by using said another communication interface wireless user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment. This is advantageous in that e.g. an interface with a shorter range may be used for identifying users with common interests when none or to few user equipments are in the proximity of the first user equipment before a communication interface with a larger range which may be more expensive and energy consuming is used.

The method may comprise the step of storing in the second wireless user equipment user equipment identification data pertaining to the first user equipment. This reduces effort required by the user equipment identification process in case the second user equipment seeks to identify user equipments in its proximity.

The communication interface may comprise a server for wireless communication which allows for a greater range between the user equipments as communication may be done via the server. Here the server for wireless communication is an active electronic device that is attached to a communications network and is capable of sending receiving and or forwarding information over a wireless communications channel. Typically the server is comprised in a mobile operator s backend server for wireless communication. However the server may also be a radio receiver transmitter that serves as the hub of a local wireless network and may also be a gateway between a wired network and a wireless network.

The method may comprise the step of sending from the first user equipment to the server information pertaining to a location of the first user equipment which allows for determining which user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment shall be contacted. In a corresponding manner the method may comprise the step of sending from the second user equipment to the server information pertaining to a location of the second user equipment which allows for determining a distance between the first and the second user equipment.

The method may comprise the step of collecting by the server information pertaining to a location of a respective wireless user equipment of a plurality of wireless user equipments. This provides for returning user equipment distance values to the first user equipment which is beneficial in terms of providing suitable criterion for selecting a most beneficial communication interface.

The first user first equipment may comprise an application abstraction layer for the software application a communication abstraction layer for the communication interfaces and an intermediate abstraction layer arranged between the application abstraction layer and the communication layer. This is advantageous in that an interface structure is provided which facilities for implementing different types of person matching software applications such that the applications may interact and be used for determining a match between two sets of personal data and subsequently be used for the initialization of wireless communication between the user equipments.

According another aspect of the invention a system for providing wireless communication between user equipments is described. The system is configured to retrieve user data and a predefined communication criterion via a software application residing on a first wireless user equipment having at least two communication interfaces select one of the communication interfaces in dependence of the predefined communication criterion identify by using the selected communication interface wireless user equipments in a proximity of the first user equipment determine if there is a match between the user data of the first user equipment and user data of a second user equipment of the identified user equipments and initiate if a match is determined wireless communication between the first and the second user equipment by sending to any of the user equipments a message associated with the match.

The system may include the following mutually independent features the predefined communication criterion may comprise a distance value the proximity of the first user equipment may be defined by the distance value the select of one of the communication interfaces may comprise select of the interface in dependence of a type of the software application residing on the first user equipment the initiate of the wireless communication may be performed if the predefined communication criterion of the first user equipment is fulfilled and the initiate of the wireless communication may be performed if a predefined communication criterion of the second user equipment is fulfilled.

The system is configured to determine a total number of identified user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment and if the number is below a predetermined value select another communication interface of the two communication interfaces and identify by using said another communication interface wireless user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment.

The system may also be configured to store in the second wireless user equipment user equipment identification data pertaining to the first user equipment.

The communication interface may comprise a server for wireless communication and the system may be configured to send from the first user equipment to the server information pertaining to a location of the first user equipment.

The system may also be configured to collect by the server information pertaining to a location of a respective wireless user equipment of a plurality of wireless user equipments.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a user equipment for wireless communication is configured to retrieve user data and a predefined communication criterion via a software application residing on the user equipment which comprises at least two communication interfaces select one of the communication interfaces in dependence of the predefined communication criterion initiate by using the selected communication interface identification of wireless user equipments in a proximity of the user equipment determine a total number of identified user equipments in the proximity and if the number is below a predetermined value select another communication interface of the two communication interfaces and identify by using said another communication interface wireless user equipments in the proximity receive if there is a match between the user data of the user equipment and user data of a responding user equipment of the identified user equipments a reply from the responding user equipment and send to the responding user equipment if the reply is received a message associated with the match.

According to the invention a computer readable medium is also provided having stored thereon a computer program having software instructions which when run on the computer cause the computer to perform the steps of retrieving user data and a predefined communication criterion via a software application residing on a first user equipment which comprises at least two communication interfaces selecting one of the communication interfaces in dependence of the predefined communication criterion initiating by using the selected communication interface identification of wireless user equipments in a proximity of the first user equipment determining a total number of identified user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment and if the number is below a predetermined value selecting another communication interface of the two communication interfaces and identifying by using said another communication interface wireless user equipments in the proximity of the first user equipment receiving if there is a match between the user data of the user equipment and user data of a responding user equipment of the identified user equipments a reply from the responding user equipment and sending if the reply is received to the responding user equipment a message associated with the match.

Here a computer is any electronic device with a processor unit that is capable of executing software instructions which includes personal computers mobile phones PDAs media players etc.

The inventive system user equipment and computer readable medium may comprise be configured to execute and or perform any of the features described above in association with the inventive method and has the corresponding advantages.

In brief an embodiment of the invention describes an arrangement of a database with social and or commercial data and different communication equipments that are able to facilitate person to person or apparatus to person communication based on the data. The communication is based on an announce model where a user is able to both announce social networking data to others as well as respond to announcements from other users. The objective of the announcement is to find persons or apparatuses that shares common interests with the announcer i.e. a match between user data is performed. To facilitate this user equipments implement an enhanced personal communication EPC functionality which reside in the user equipments. Optionally the user equipments also use a communication server for implementing the EPC functionality. Included in the functionality is also a user proximity match which identifies other users that are within the proximity of a certain user equipment. An announcement occurs when a user equipment is switched on when an area of coverage changes for a used communication interface or when the announcement is explicitly requested by a user.

With reference to a system implementing the invention is illustrated where a first a second and a third user equipment are located within the range of a base station which is a part of a wireless communication network that incorporates a mobile operator s backend communication server . The communication server is configured to use the base station to wirelessly communicate with the user equipments such that users of the user equipments may exchange information.

The wireless communication network is a wireless network such as for example a GPRS or a W CDMA cellular network or an LTE Long Term Evolution cellular network implemented accordance with the 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project Release 8 specifications. The mentioned server included in the network acts as a communication bride between the user equipments .

The communication network may also be a local wireless network such as a IEEE 802.11 network which includes Wi Fi or WLAN networks. In this case the base station and server form a radio receiver transmitter that serves as the hub of a local area network. The combination of server and base station may also be a gateway between a wired network and the wireless network in which case the server typically would comprise a low power transmitter and a wireless router. This includes the possibility to use a residential gateway or to use a femtocell as the server and the base station. From this it follows that the communication server and the base station may in dependence of the type of wireless communication network used be treated as one unit or as separate units performing different but cooperating functions.

The user equipments are typically mobile phones PDA s personal computers media players etc. or any other device capable of allowing a user of the equipment to communicate wirelessly with another user of a user equipment. Each user equipment has at least two communication interfaces as will be elucidated below of which one interface typically has a longer reach than the other. Here the reach is the same as a maximum communication distance a user equipment may be located from another user equipment that also includes the EPC functionality. To extend their reach the user equipments may use the server in combination with the base station in a manner known within the art.

Each user equipment has an area of coverage A B C that extends a distance from the respective user device which area is defined by the range of a short range communication interface not using a base station or communication server of the respective user equipment . If two user equipments and have overlapping areas of coverage A C they are able to independently establish communication i.e. without using the base station and server .

The base station also has an area of coverage D where user equipments within the area D are capable of communicating with the server via the base station for purpose of setting up a communication link to other user equipments. In this case the user equipments use a long range communication interface using a base station and communication server . The server is capable of communicating via a network such as the Internet with an application server that in turn is connected to a database . A personal computer is also connected to the network for facilitating communication with the application server .

The application server includes a social or commercial networking service and a user of the service may via one of the user equipments or via a computer like the personal computer upload personal and commercial information in the database . Social and commercial networking services are today common and include for example services like MySpace Facebook LinkedIN and Ebay. Personal information may include social interests information about a profession interest in products to buy or sell dating information etc. and are intended to reflect a persons values and interests. The personal information is usually stored in the database but might just as well be stored either in part or in full in one of the user equipments . In any case the personal information form so called user data that might in case the user data is not already present in the user equipment be downloaded to the user equipment and be used and structured as later described.

With reference to a user equipment is illustrated in more detail and comprises a central processing unit that is connected to and capable of controlling a communication interface selector . The interface selector is in turn arranged to control several communication interface units such as a Bluetooth ZigBee 2G 3G LTE WiFi IEEE 802.11x or WiMAX IEEE 802.16 unit or any other interface unit that is suitable for wireless communication with other user equipments. At least a first interface unit of the interface units can communicate directly with a corresponding communication interface unit of another user equipment while at least a second interface unit of the interface units can communicate via a base station communication server with a corresponding communication interface of another user equipment.

A memory unit is connected to the processor unit and software instructions for one or more software applications stored on the memory unit . Here one of these software applications is an application that implements EPC functionality and resides on the central processing unit when executed. The software application comprises or may from the memory unit retrieve user data ud that comprises personal information about a user of the user equipment as well as retrieve a predefined communication criterion that indicates which of the communication interface shall be used.

The predefined criterion may e.g. be a value that explicitly defines which communication interface shall be used or it may be a set of rules that use the interfaces to detect other user equipment or local area networks and then selects the most suitable communication interface. In the latter case the rules may define that a short range interface such as Bluetooth shall be used before a long range interface like 3G and LTE. For example if the EPC implementing application needs a long range e.g. if it should search for persons with common interests in the area of Stockholm Sweden the default criterion for that application would be to use a communication interface like 3G or LTE.

Moreover the rules may define a minimum number of other user equipments the must be identified and that another communication interface shall be used if this number is not reached. Of course it is possible to use several communication interfaces at the same time such that communication with one user equipment is set up via a short range interface while communication with another user equipment is set up via a long range interface for e.g. ensuring proper communication with a desirable number of proximate other users.

With further reference to three application abstraction layers of the user equipment are illustrated. In this context an application abstraction layer or abstraction level is a way of hiding the implementation details of a particular set of functions of the EPC functionality. From this it follows that each level presents an abstract interface that allows a software programmer to read and write instructions from or to the layer. The layer then performs an actual transformation of data needed to perform the various steps and functions of the layer.

The first uppermost layer is an application layer AL that comprises a number of 3 rd party EPC software applications 3P app that could be developed by different vendors and which either each independently or in combination form the user interface of and implements the specific user functions of the EPC functionality. All 3 rd party EPC software applications use an application programming interface API comprised in the application layer for communicating with an intermediate layer IL . This application programming interface is as common within the art a set of functions procedures methods and classes that the underlying layers provide to support requests made by the 3 rd party EPC software applications 

The intermediate layer below the application layer has a number of units i.e. a cache unit a logic unit and a data unit .

The cache unit is used to store broadcasted pieces of data or so called announcements sent from other user equipments. The purpose of the cache unit is to limit the periodicity of broadcasts required to maintain a meaningful interaction between user equipments. Also the cache unit reduces the amounts of announces sent from the user equipment since the user equipment is able to first search in the cash unit and occasionally find information about other users which thereby may reduce the number of necessary announcements.

The logic unit of the intermediate layer acts as a bridge between the application layer more specifically the application programming interface the cache unit the data unit and a communication layer CL residing below the intermediate layer . The logic unit performs an analysis of rules contained in the data of the intermediate layer and creates announcements requests based on input from the application layer as well as determines based on a set of response rules how an incoming announcement of another user equipment shall be handled.

The data unit of the intermediate layer comprises user data describing a user of the user equipment and include a description of social networking data and statements indicating interests of the user. The data unit also comprises announcement rules for creating an announcement as well as response rules for determining if a received announcement shall be responded to. The rules include how user data shall be made available in an announcement or response and indicate conditions of how the user data should be made available to other announcing or responding users. The data unit of the intermediate layer is accessible from the application programming interface via the logic unit .

The data and rules in the data unit are uploaded via the 3 rd party EPC software applications for example when the 3 rd party EPC software application is initialized. As mentioned the data and the rules may be downloaded to the user equipment e.g. from the application server .

The afore mentioned communication layer resides below the intermediate layer and comprises of an interface selector IF selector connected to wireless communication interfaces of the user equipment . The purpose of the interface selector is to set which of the several available communication interfaces an announcement message should be sent over. The decision is made based on the available interfaces and on the range specified by the EPC functionality of the 3 rd party EPC application being executed. The communication layer has access to the communication interfaces via interface drivers and depending on the choice made by the executed 3 rd party EPC application a proper interface is selected in accordance with on the needs of the 3 rd party EPC application the number of proximate user equipments etc. as further described below. Each communication interface resides on a respective of the communication interface units described in connection with .

The data in the data unit has a structure or model that supports user data the creation of the announcements and the responses to announcements. Accordingly the data model has a collection of user data sets as well as announcement rules and response rules. Typically a user or a service operator sets the user data and the rules via a one of the 3 rd party EPC applications which then transmits the data and rules via the application programming interface and the logic unit to the data unit .

The user data comprises categories which are placeholders for unique sets of data where there could be several elements in a set. Examples of categories may be e.g. hobbies product interests employments etc. The set of data in for example the hobbies category may include e.g. soccer and elements in the soccer set may be favorite team years played my best score and so on.

Announcement rules define what portions of the user data may be announced to other user equipments and may include an always rule that allows each of the categories sets and elements to be announced i.e. sent to other user equipments. Conditional rules may also be implemented where filters discriminate what data can be announced as well as a rule preventing any data to be used when announcing.

Response rules define in a corresponding manner what portions of the user data may be shared or sent to other user equipments when an announcement is received. Here an always rule may be used that allows each of the categories sets and elements to be included in a response to the announcement but for privacy concerns conditional rules are implemented for discriminating what data can be included in the response. Such rules include a blocking rule preventing any data other than user equipment identifying data to be sent.

Of course as known within the art user data announcement rules and response rules may be structured in many other ways and it is possible to implement filters that match a user s list of other persons he is willing to communicate with as well as a list with persons that are denied communication when they send an announcement.

With reference to the operation of the EPC functionality is illustrated where the first user equipment UE communicates via the base station and server with the second user equipment UE . This case occurs for example when the user equipment is not able to independently perform a detection of proximate user equipments or when other user equipments are out of range of a short range communication interface of the first user equipment .

Here the application layer of the first user equipment sends by using a 3 rd party EPC software application residing on the first wireless user equipment the user data and the predefined communication criterion to the intermediate layer . The data and criterion are stored in the data unit . In this context sending something from a device may be functionally replaced by retrieving the same thing from the same device and here the term should be treated as equivalents.

Next the data and criterion are analyzed by the logic unit that has received or retrieved the user data and the predefined communication criterion from the application layer . This analysis includes using data in the data unit as well as using any data in the cache unit for example in case the cache unit holds information about a user that previously sent an announcement to the first user equipment . The rules typically include information like the position of the first user equipment and a greatest acceptable distance to other user equipments. The position is determined by methods known within the art and may use any one or a mixture of GPS devices of the user equipment and triangulation technologies and network cell identity technologies in for example 3G systems.

Thereafter the rules are forwarded to the communication layer which selects a communication interface in accordance with the rules and or the communication criterion. For example if the user had set that he only wants to contact other persons that are within a range of maximum 10 meters the communication criterion may indicate that the interface is a Bluetooth interface. On the other hand if the user wants a larger area over coverage the communication criterion may indicate that for example a 3G communication interface shall be used.

Communication interface is set by the communication layer in accordance with the communication criterion and then sends to the server information about the location of the first user equipment and a maximum desired distance to other user equipments.

Continuously other user equipments such as the second user equipment reports to the server via the base station its position and its maximum desired distance to other user equipments.

This means that the server indentifies monitors and determines a total number user equipments within its area of coverage. In case an insufficient number of user equipments are found or if no user equipments are found at all the server reports back to the first user equipment which then may select another communication interface that has a greater range than the first selected communication interface or just select another range for the first selected communication interface. When this is done it is forwarded to the server which identifies other user equipments within this new range. Once this is done a proximity list of other user equipments is sent via the communication layer to the intermediate layer of the first user equipment . If another communication interface was previously selected the communication may be performed over another type of communication server and other interfaces may be selected in an iterative manner until a user equipment within a desired proximity is found.

The identified user equipments are stored in the cache unit of the first user equipment and an announcement invitation to communicate is created and sent to the second user equipment which is similar with the first user equipment and accordingly has a corresponding application layer intermediate layer communication layer logic unit data unit and cache unit . The invitation comprises information about a user of the first user equipment and the communication rules that applies for this user. The application layer of the second user equipment sends information about a user of the second user equipment which information is processed to determine if here is a match between the user data of the first user and the user data of the second user.

As with the first user equipment information about the first user and his user equipment is stored in the cache unit of the second user equipment .

If there was a match between the user data information of the first the second user equipment the second user equipment sends to the server which then forwards to the first user equipment a response message that indicates willingness to communicate. Finally when the response indicating communication willingness was received communication between the user equipments is initiated which may include a video phone call or short message service being set up. This set up process may also include displaying data information of the other user. Of course the step of setting up communication between two user equipments using the same type of communication interface depends on the interface per se and is done according to methods known for the respective communication interface.

With reference to the operation of the enhanced personal communication functionality is illustrated where the first user equipment communicates directly with the third user equipment UE which is similar with and in a close proximity of the first user equipment . This case is typical when the communication interface comprises for example Bluetooth ZigBee or WLAN technology that do not need a communication server and base station.

In this case the intermediate layer retrieves user data and communication criteria from the application layer and creates communication rules just like in the case of user equipments communicating via a server. However in this of case of not using a server the intermediate layer in the user equipment creates an announcement that is forwarded to the communication layer . The announcement comprises identification information for the user equipment as well as the user data that indicate a users interests. Exactly what type of information and in particular user data that is included in the announcement depends as earlier described on the software application in the application layer since various types of information is desired in different applications. The communication layer selects a communication interface which in this case as mentioned is an interface that does not require any server for communicating with other user equipments.

The communication layer is used for identifying user equipments within the range of the selected communication interface and creates a list if of these user equipments. Here the third user equipment is within the range of the communication interface of the first user equipment and receives the announcement sent by the first user equipment .

The third user equipment stores information that was contained in the announcement which typically includes storing the mentioned identification information of the first user equipment as well as user data belonging to the user of the first user equipment . From the application layer of the third user equipment user data and response rules communication criterion of its user is sent to the intermediate layer where a match is determined to see if the users of the user equipments have common interests.

If a match is determined the third user equipment sends a response message that indicates willingness to communicate. This response comprises identification information for the third user equipment as well as personal data of the user of the third user equipment . The first user equipment also stores information included in the response.

When the response is received communication between the user equipments is initiated which as mentioned before may include a video phone call or short message service being set up. Again the step of setting up communication between two user equipments depends on the interface technology and is done according to methods known for the interface.

The communication illustrated by may also include determining of how many user equipments are found by the first user equipment and in case none or to few user equipments are found may comprise selecting another communication interface with a longer range such as a communication interface using a base station and communication server for extending the reach. The reselection of communication interface may be done in a manner that corresponds to the communication described in connection with .

The steps for the cases above must not be performed in the specifically described sequences. For example user data may be sent form an application layer to the intermediate layer as soon as the 3 rd party EPC software application is up and running. The steps may also include other measures to be taken such as the determining of the match may be followed by displaying a message to a user of any of the equipments who then actively may accept or reject an invitation to communicate. Such a displayed message may include information about the user that may be accepted or rejected.

Of course the various communication interfaces described herein are implemented according known standards and protocols. In fact the invention may be implemented on present advanced mobile communication devices having at least two different communication interfaces e.g. WiFi and 3G equipped mobile phones Bluetooth and 3G equipped mobile phones WiFi 3G and Bluetooth equipped mobile phones and Bluetooth and WiMax equipped mobile phones without needing any hardware adaptation of the mobile communication device.

The same applies for the wireless network i.e. the invention may be implemented by using present mobile communication systems like GPRS W CDMA or 3GPP Rel 8 LTE systems without needing any hardware adaptation of the used mobile communication system.

Although various embodiments of the invention have been described and shown the invention is not restricted thereto but may also be embodied in other ways within the scope of the subject matter defined in the following claims. In particular the invention may be implemented by using other communication interfaces than the ones mentioned herein.

