---

title: Touch screen locking and unlocking
abstract: A computer-implemented touch screen call interface includes announcing an incoming telephone call on a mobile device touch screen display, connecting to the call and displaying a slidable panel on the display while locking the display from inputs other than unlocking inputs, receiving a user selection moving the slidable panel away from a position that covers one or more selectable controls, and unlocking the display for selection of the selectable controls while the slidable panel stays in a position that leaves the selectable controls uncovered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152309&OS=09152309&RS=09152309
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09152309
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080328
---
This document relates to systems and techniques for generating graphical display elements and controls for mobile devices.

People spends hours at a time with their electronic devices computers telephones music players and the like. They like best those devices that are intuitive to use and whose interactions best meet their expectations regarding how machines should work. They interact with electronics through inputs and outputs from the devices where the outputs generally are provided audibly and or on a flat graphical display screen and the inputs may occur via touch screens joysticks mice four directional keypads and other such input mechanisms.

Fine distinctions in user interfaces can make a world of difference in a user s experience with a device. User interface options may be reduced for mobile devices where full sized keyboards or no keyboards at all are available. In such situations intuitive interaction may be at a premium. The importance of such interaction may be even more pronounced with mobile devices where the user needs to interact with a device using a single hand.

This document describes systems and techniques that may be used to interact with a user of a computing device like a mobile telephone having a touch screen user interface. In general the techniques may provide for the display of a mechanism to lock a touch screen input for a device where the mechanism uses a visual representation of a sliding cover that obscures selectable controls on the display and thus makes them unselectable. In this manner the cover locks the interface from receiving data entry. The user may unlock the display by dragging the cover off of the selectable controls. In one example the cover is generated on the display upon the receipt of an incoming call or the dialing of an outgoing call so that a user does not accidentally select an object on the display when they hold the device against the side of their head. The user may move the cover back and forth during a call to alternatively block and unblock data entry to the touch screen display.

In certain implementations such systems and technique may provide one or more advantages. For example a user may more readily use their device without accidentally providing touch input to the device. Such a feature may be presented in an intuitive manner to the user so that they can readily see what is needed from them to lock or unlock the device without the need for training. In addition the user may readily access selectable controls when they need such access simply by moving the cover out of the way.

In one implementation a computer implemented touch screen call interface method is disclosed. The method comprises announcing an incoming telephone call on a mobile device touch screen display connecting to the call and displaying a slidable panel on the display while locking the display from inputs other than unlocking inputs receiving a user selection moving the slidable panel away from a position that covers one or more selectable controls and unlocking the display for selection of the selectable controls while the slidable panel stays in a position that leaves the selectable controls uncovered. The method can also comprise displaying information about the telephone call on the slidable panel. In addition the method can further comprise receiving a user selection dragging the slidable panel over the selectable controls and locking the display form inputs other than unlocking inputs in response to the user selection.

In another implementation a computer implemented user interface method is disclosed. The method comprises displaying on a touch screen display a visual representation of a movable panel and locking the display to inputs other than inputs that move the panel receiving a user command to slide the panel and to reveal selectable controls previously hidden by the panel and unlocking the touch screen display to data entry via the revealed selectable controls. The representation of a movable panel can comprise a rectangular solid cover over the selectable controls. The user command can comprise an on screen dragging motion on top of the panel. Also the movable panel can substantially fill the display in a first dimension and the dragging motion can occur in second dimension that is orthogonal to the first dimension. The method can also comprise announcing an incoming telephone call on the display and connecting to the incoming call only after receiving a user input sliding the movable panel. In addition locking the display can occur substantially concurrent with answering the call.

In some aspects the selectable controls comprise controls for controlling a telephone call whose information is displayed on the movable panel. In addition the method can include sensing an end of call event and removing the slidable panel from the display in response to the end of call event.

In yet another implementation an article comprising a computer readable data storage medium storing program code operable to cause one or more machines to perform operations is disclosed. The operations comprise displaying on a touch screen display a visual representation of a movable panel and locking the display to inputs other than inputs that move the panel receiving a user command to slide the panel and to reveal selectable controls previously hidden by the panel and unlocking the touch screen display to data entry via the revealed selectable controls. The user command can comprise an on screen dragging motion on top of the panel. Also the medium can further store program code operable to cause the one or more machines to announce an incoming telephone call on the display and connect to the incoming call only after receiving a user input sliding the movable panel. Moreover the the selectable controls can comprise controls for controlling a telephone call whose information is displayed on the movable panel.

In another implementation a computer implemented user interface system for use on a mobile communication device is disclosed that comprises a graphical user interface module to display user selectable elements including a movable panel to block visual display of selectable controls a touch screen user input mechanism to receive user selections in coordination with the display of user selectable elements including user selections to slide the movable panel and a display access manager to block inputs to controls other than the movable panel when the movable panel is in a position that blocks the selectable elements.

In some aspects the display access manager is programmed to cause a display of the movable panel during a telephone call on the mobile device. The system can also comprise a contacts module to provide data for displaying information about a caller on the movable panel. Also a user selection on the movable panel followed by a sliding selection can causes the movable panel to move in a direction of the sliding selection and to block the inputs if the sliding selection is indicative of a user intent to slide the movable panel over the controls.

In another implementation a computer implemented user interface system is disclosed that comprises a graphical user interface module to display user selectable elements a touch screen user input mechanism to receive user selections in coordination with the display of user selectable elements and means for blocking or unblocking user access to selectable elements in response to user selections of one or more elements that block display of the selectable elements.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes systems and techniques that may be presented to a user of a mobile device to prevent certain forms of data entry by the user on the device. In particular there may be times during which it s advisable to block data entry to a device such as when a user has a touch screen device against their face when taking a telephone call. As such the selection of controls on the touch screen may be disabled such as by providing a graphically generated shield over such controls. The shield may be generated to look like a physical cover that slides over the controls and a user may manipulate the cover by pressing on top of the cover on the touch screen display and dragging their finger across the display to slide the cover. Such sliding manipulation used to unlock the touch screen may be the only input permitted by the system.

Moving of the cover may cause a number of selectable controls to be uncovered. For example controls relating to the call may be shown such as controls for conferencing in other callers controls for showing additional contacts of the user controls for muting the phone or powering a speakerphone and other such controls. The locking and unlocking of the display may alternatively or additionally be controlled by selectable buttons or other devices that are not on the touch screen itself.

A selection of a hardware key may be used to wake the device from this locked or sleep mode as shown by the arrow connecting display to display . For example hardware buttons such as button or clickable scroll wheel may be provided on the devices and may be less susceptible to accidental selection than is the screen itself so that such elements may be provided with the ability to wake the device. Such buttons may be used to unlock the touch screen display which is more susceptible to accidental activation.

Display shows the presence of an incoming call where an alert indicating that the call was occurring may have caused the transition from display to display either alone or in combination with some action of the user such as a user selection of a hardware button or a motion of the device e.g. as sensed by an on board accelerometer . The display shows a panel which in this example is a rectangular solid graphical element capable of being moved when a user presses their finger to the display and drags it upward or downward. The panel may also take geometric forms other than a rectangle and may be partially transparent perforated or generated in other such manners.

The panel fills the width of the display but does not fill the height of the display and thus the user can readily see that the panel can be slid upward but not sideways. The display also provides a user with the instruction slide up to answer so as to indicate to the user that they should place a finder or fingers on the panel and slide upward. The panel may also be slid upward by fast spinning of trackball in an upward direction. Alternatively the user may press hardware key to answer the call. Selection of other hardware keys or on screen controls not shown or sliding of the panel in other directions may result in the device being silenced and the call being sent to voice mail or being provided a busy tone if voice mail is not enabled.

The panel may be given physics attributes so that a user need not drag the panel if the user initially pushes the panel hard enough that the momentum of the panel will carry it to the end of the display . Also the panel may be dragged from off the edge of the display in certain situations much like pulling a roll shade over the surface of the display .

Display shows the device after the panel has been slid upward until it locks into position at the top of the display . Such motion has covered the instruction area with the panel . In addition sliding the panel upward may cause the user to pick up the telephone call i.e. to complete the telephone connection which may simply be a logical connection such as where the communication uses packet based data transfers . In this situation the screen has been locked so that no input other than sliding of the panel back to its original position may be received by the device. As a result a user may press the device to the side of their face to talk on the device without worrying that any control on the touch screen will be inadvertently selected. In addition a message zone that has been uncovered by the sliding of the panel indicates to the user that the screen is currently locked to input and that the user should slide the panel downward to unlock the device.

Even with the display locked the hardware buttons may still be operational in certain implementations. For example button when selected while a call is ongoing may cause the device to hang up the call as shown by display . In that display summary information for the call such as the identity of the other caller and the elapsed time for the call may be shown on the display screen. After a moment of time however the device falls back to display .

Separately if the user slides the panel back down before ending a call such movement may reveal selectable on screen controls in a display . The controls may take a variety of forms. In the pictured example the controls include context sensitive controls that are associated with the ongoing telephone call. In particular one control turns the speaker phone on or off another mutes or un mutes the device another raises the dialing pad such as to permit a user to conference in another person and a fourth transfer the audio for the call to a Bluetooth device such as a wireless headset. Other controls now shown may also be provided. For example general controls for launching other application may be shown such as a selection to launch a messaging application. Using such a control the user may begin reviewing e mails and other such messages while the telephone call is ongoing e.g. if the call is a conference call that does not require the user s full attention .

In addition the display shows additional controls on the panel for controlling the call. An add control may be selected by the user to add another caller such as to form a conference call. Selection of control may result in a list of contacts being displayed on the device so that the user may select one of those contacts such as a colleague that the user has in common with the caller Gerald Persson in this example. A hang up control when selected causes the call to be terminated in a familiar manner.

In addition when the panel is slid down to reveal the controls a message is provided below the controls instructing the user how to lock the display again. Other appropriate messages and controls may also be displayed to a user of the device in appropriate locations.

Selections by a user other than those discussed here may also be required in order to unlock a touch screen display and a user may be given the opportunity to choose between multiple options. For example a particular user may for whatever reason often sweep down across his or her display and may thus be prone to accidentally unlocking a device like that discussed above. Such a user may choose instead to use a motion that would be less likely to be provided accidentally such as a side to side sweep or even a multi directional motion. For example the user may choose to trace a letter such as a z across the panel in order to have the panel slide out of the way of covering selectable controls on the device. Likewise different patterns may be generated on the panel by the device itself and the user may be required to trace the current pattern in order to unlock the display for input.

Other such control techniques may also be used to unlock a mobile device display. For example selectable controls may be provided visually beneath the pieces of a sliding puzzle like the physical puzzles that contain square covers arranged in a two dimensional grid with one spot in the grid empty. Such games may commonly require the use to slide the covers until they form a complete picture. On the device shown here the sliding of such covers may result in the display of selectable controls underneath the covers. Alternatively a plurality of graphical covers may be provided in a row next to each other where each cover lies on top of a single selectable control. Answering of a call may result in all of the covers sliding into position over a control whereas each cover may then be individually slid out of position so that only its corresponding control is unlocked. Also the covers may be slightly transparent so that the particular controls may be seen below the cover but in a manner that makes plain to the user that the controls are covered up and thus not selectable at the moment.

In sum such a graphical arrangement for the display of call information may provide a very intuitive approach for a typical user of a mobile device. The user may readily see that they need to slide the panel in one direction to answer a call and may also readily understand that the panel lacking in input controls is blocking accidental pressing of elements on the touch screen display. At the same time the user may readily move the panel to permit additional interaction with the device by visually sliding the panel out of the way of blocking the selectable controls.

A number of components stored on and operating on device are shown schematically here and may provide for functionality to lock and unlock the touch screen display from receiving input. For example the display may be controlled by a display manager that manages various visual elements that are to be shown to a user on the display while an input manager manages inputs received from the display or from other mechanisms such as trackball .

The display manager may receive graphic related content from a number of sources and may determine how the content is to be provided to a user. For example a number of different windows for various applications on the device may need to be displayed and the display manager may determine which to display which to hide and what to display or hide when there is overlap between various graphical objects. The display manager may be implemented for example by software operating on a microprocessor on device and or on a dedicated graphics processor with associated software and firmware.

The input manager may be responsible for translating commands provided by a user of device . For example such commands may come from a keyboard from touch screen display from trackball or from other such sources including dedicated hardware buttons or soft buttons e.g. buttons whose functions may change over time and whose functions may be displayed on areas of display that are adjacent to the particular buttons . The input manager may determine for example in what area of the display the commands are being received and thus the application being shown on the display for which the commands are intended. In addition it may interpret input motions on the touch screen into a common format and pass those interpreted motions e.g. short press long press multiple press straight line drags and multi touch inputs to the appropriate application. The input manager may also report such inputs to an event manager not shown that in turn reports them to the appropriate modules or applications. As one example the input manager may report the location of a dragging motion on the display so that another application such as access manager may determine whether the dragging occurred on top of a panel that is to be used to lock the display from further input.

A variety of applications may operate generally on a common microprocessor on the device . The applications may take a variety of forms such as mapping applications e mail and other messaging applications web browser applications and various applications running within a web browser or running extensions of a web browser. One particular application may be a telephony application that managers telephone calls on the device . The telephony application may take a variety of familiar forms and may provide a number of features including caller ID teleconferencing auto dialing voice mail handling call forwarding and the like either on the device or also in combination with a hosted service.

An access manager interoperates with the applications including with the telephony application to control access to the device including by controlling the ability to enter commands on the touch screen display . The access manager may for example generate an image of a movable cover or multiple covers that can be positioned by a user e.g. by touching the cover and moving it into or out of position to be placed over an area in which selectable controls would otherwise be displayed. The access manager may also be passed contact information about a caller and may display such information on top of the cover or may display other such information on the cover. In addition the access manager may communicate with the input manager to determine when a user is indicating an intent to move the cover such as by placing a finger on the cover on the display and dragging the finger. The access manager may then communicate back to the input manager when such motion has occurred so as to lock or unlock other applications from receiving input from the display so that movement of the cover in a particular manner may be the only input permitted on the then locked display .

A user data database may store a variety of information that is specific to a user of the device . For example a particular action that a user is to take to lock or unlock the display may be stored in the database . Likewise personal contact information about the user and profile information describing the user s interests may also be stored. Such information may be accessed by the access manager and or the applications to provide a more specialized experience for a user of device .

The telephony application may also provide information about users on the other end of a call by referring to contacts module and contacts database . Contacts database may in a standard manner contain information about users with which the user of device has an acquaintance relationship such as friends or co workers. The contacts module may be called by various applications to obtain and return information from the contacts database . For example when an incoming call is received a telephony application may pass telephone number information received with the incoming call e.g. ANI information to the contacts module which may conduct a query on the number information in the contacts database so as to determine whether the caller is an acquaintance of the user of the device . If a match is found the name of the acquaintance having that particular telephone number may be provided to the telephony application as may a digital image of the acquaintance. Such information may then be displayed to a user of the device so they can readily see who is calling them and may decide quickly whether to take the call or not.

A wireless interface managers communication with a wireless network which may be a data network that also carries voice communications. The wireless interface may operate in a familiar manner such as according to the examples discussed above and below and may provide for communication by the device with messaging service such as text messaging e mail and telephone voice mail messaging. In addition the wireless interface may support downloads and uploads of content and computer code over a wireless network. As described more fully here the wireless interface may provide for voice communications in a wireless network in a familiar manner.

Using the pictured components and others that are omitted here for clarity the device may provide for user interactions while preventing the display from receiving accidental or unwanted inputs. In particular when a call arrives through the wireless interface a telephony application may cause the call to be announced to the user. The access manager may be used to announce the call and may present the incoming call along with a selectable control whose selection by a user of device causes the call to be answered and the display to be locked from further input other than an unlocking input . The call may then continue and the access manager may prevent other applications from being accessed by the user and or from announcing to the user as long as the device remains locked. The access manager may also be provided with an indication e.g. from he input manager that the user has made an unlocking selection such as by moving a cover away from selectable controls on the display that the cover which is a graphically generated cover on the display had previously rested on top of. The user may then select such controls such as to affect the operation of the telephony application.

Referring now to the process begins at box where an incoming call is presented to a user of a mobile device. The call may be initially received via wireless interface and may be provided for handling by a telephony application on the device. The presentation of the incoming call may be made audibly by a common ringing or ring tone of the device and also visually such as by presenting a name and image of the caller on the display of the device. Such display may include presenting a representation of a shield panel or similar cover on the device along with an instruction to the user that they are to move the cover in a particular manner to answer the call.

At box the device receives a sliding input on cover. For example the user may slide a cover that does not fill the entire length of the device display upward from one end of the device display to the other end of the device display. Such input may cause a message to be sent to the telephony application that the call is connected and the user may begin talking to the caller box . The action may also cause an access manager or similar program or module to block input on the display other than inputs that are directed to unlocking the display. As a result the user may be prevented from accidentally touching the display with their fingers or the side of their face while they use the device and talk on the telephone.

The user may continue to talk on the telephone call while the device is locked from input and while the device denies the user from making any input to the screen other than a locking a unlocking input as shown at box . During this time notifications for other events on the device may also be blocked or may be allowed through. For example arriving electronic mail messages completion of file downloads and other similar messages may be provided to the user e.g. by alerts that appear temporarily on the display . While the user may normally be allowed to interact with such alerts by selecting them on the device such selection may be disabled when the device is in a locked state. Other more persistent reminders of the alerts during this period may also be added to the display in the form of selectable controls such as icons added to the status bar of the device so that the user may select those controls when a call is finished and the device is unlocked again.

At box the device receives a sliding input on the panel or other cover. Such input may occur by a user pressing on the panel and sliding it back to its original position from where it was before the call started. Upon receiving such input the device may reveal one or more selectable controls in the form of a graphically generated button that the user may select to provide additional interaction with the device. For example the controls may permit the user to launch other applications on the device to see messages that have arrived on the device during the particular telephone call or to perform various other functions with the device.

After that time the user may also slide the cover back over these selectable controls to relock the device and may then unlock the device again by sliding the cover yet again. In certain implementations the cover may have more than two positions. For example certain selectable controls may be located on one end of the cover while other selectable controls may be located on another end of the cover. Sliding the cover in one direction may hide one set of controls and expose the other set of controls while sliding the cover in the opposite direction may hide and expose the opposite set of controls.

Such interaction with the cover may occur until the call ends as shown at box . The call may end for example in familiar manners such as by a caller at the other end of the line terminating the call with the local device sensing that the call has been terminated and automatically terminating the call. Alternatively the call may end by a user of the local device selecting a control to terminate the call. Such a control for example may be displayed on a touch screen display and may be pressed by user or may be implemented by the pressing of a hardware button on the device among other things.

Referring now to there is shown the beginning of a process by which a user interacts with a mobile device in taking a telephone call. At box the device receives incoming call data from a wireless network. The call data may include for example a number of a caller placing a call to the device. At box the device supplies such incoming call data to a contact manager and obtains corresponding contact information. For example the device may submit the telephone number received from the wireless network to a contact manager which may perform a lookup for any people in a contact database having such a telephone number. At box the device announces the incoming call. Such an announcement may involve displaying information from the contact database about the caller such as a telephone number and image of the caller. Where no such information is available from a contact database a generic display may be provided.

The device may then continue announcing the call both audibly and visually until the user provides some form of input to the device. For example the user may move a slider element such as a cover that is displayed on the graphical display of the device as instructed by the device so as to cause the call to be answered. Such selection by the user may cause the device to respond by moving the cover along with the user s selecting of the cover may cause the call to be completed by the device so that the user may talk to the caller and may cause the touch screen on the device to be locked from input while the call continues.

The input may also occur from a user selection of some element other than the slider. For example a hardware button on the device may be programmed so that its selection causes calls to be answered on the device. In such a situation the cover on the display may be moved automatically into the same position it would take if the user had chosen it and slid it across the display. The call again may be completed and the display may be locked to further input box . In a like manner certain motions of the device may indicate that the user is lifting the device to their ear so as to answer an incoming call.

Other input may represent still other desires from the user. For example the user may move the device quickly such as by slapping the device in their pocket or bag to indicate that they do not want to take the call but they do want the device to be quiet. Such an action sensed by an accelerometer in the device may cause the device to push the call into voicemail box and the particular form of the input e.g. one slap or two or the identity of the caller e.g. certain callers may be told the line has been disconnected may be used to control the voicemail message that the caller receives. Other inputs such as pressing certain hardware buttons may have a similar effect.

Where the user selection results in the call being completed a call status screen may be displayed with the identity of the caller and the length of the call and a message may also be displayed to indicate that the screen has been locked to input and instructing the user what must be done to unlock the screen box . The instructions for instance may indicate that the user needs to slide the cover back to its original position by dragging his or her finger across the screen in order to unlock the device.

The device may then wait while the call is ongoing. When the call ends as indicated by box the display may be reset to the state it occupied before the call came in box and the process may end box .

Inputs received from the user during the call and the device s reaction to those inputs are shown on the continuation of process in . at box an input is received from the user and is tested to determine whether it is an input from a hardware key. If it is such an input and is from a key assigned for ending a call box may determine that the call should be ended and the display may be reset at box with the call ending at box . If the input is not a hardware key input but is instead a screen input as indicated at box the process may be determine whether the input involves moving of the panel or other cover on the device at box . If the input involves moving of the panel the display of the panel may be moved on the device and the screen may be locked or unlocked in accordance with the direction that the panel has been moved box . Again the process may return to waiting for user import at such a point.

Where the input is something other than a hardware key input or a moving of the panel the device may determine whether the screen is currently locked at box . If the screen is locked the command may be ignored and the process may return again to waiting for additional commands from the user. In contrast if the screen is not locked to the particular sensed input the device may receive the selection from the user and may execute whatever function is indicated by the selection as shown by box . Again once the selection has been executed the process may return to waiting for additional user input.

The process begins at box where the network presents an incoming call to a mobile device. An application on the device such as a telephony application may be notified about the incoming call and may receive data that is sent from the network. Such data may include for example data identifying the device or the caller making the call.

At box the telephony application perhaps in combination with other applications associates the received call data with a caller who was identified in a contact database stored on the device or otherwise accessible by the device such as at a central server system. The association may involve for example a simple lookup using the data received from the network and comparing such data to records stored in a contact database.

Particular caller data obtained by the telephony application may then be passed to an access manager which may display a graphical element for controlling access to the device along with the data about the caller as shown at box . Such a display may also invite the user to provide a particular selection to the device such as to answer the incoming telephone call.

At box the device receives a user selection which may be a selection that follows provided instructions for answering the call. Such a selection may cause the telephony application to cause the call to be connected so that the caller may communicate with the user of the mobile device boxes .

The user selection may also cause the access manager to lock the touch screen to further input box while the call is ongoing. Thus at this stage of the process the device may wait for further user input while the user talks on the telephone. Such input may occur by a selection on the screen in the form of an unlocking selection by hardware buttons away from the screen or in an area of the screen is unlikely to be selected accidentally or by a verbal input from the user. At box the user provides such an unlocking input to the device. For example the user may slide their finger across the element that they originally slid into place to activate the telephone call.

When such a sliding selection occurs the element may move out of the way of several selectable controls that were previously covered and hidden by the element box . Such controls may then be readily selected by the user. In this example one of the controls is a button for instituting a conference call on the device. At box the user selects such a control to institute a conference call and the system responds by identifying and displaying contacts associated with the user box . The user may then select one of the contacts or separately type a telephone number of another user who they would like to bring into the conference call. Such a selection may occur for example by selecting a name in a contact list associated with the user box and a call may be connected to that additional user as a result box .

The user may then continued talking on the telephone to the other two users and the device may await additional instructions from the first user. At box for example the user indicates such as by sliding the element with their finger again that they would like to lock the device once more. For instance the user may wish to place the device against their face during the conference call and may wish not to accidentally make any selections during such a process. As a result of such a selection the process locks the touch screen once again box .

Thus by this process various subcomponents within a system may interact to provide a user with access to a touch screen interface that may be locked conveniently so as to prevent accidental selections on the interface. Such locking may occur by manual selection of the user or by various automated mechanisms. In addition the user may be allowed to conveniently unlock the input mechanism when they would like to have additional functionality from the device such as when they are not holding the device to their faith and thus can see the screen of the device and interact with it a more complete manner.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the user interface features described here is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to display notifications regarding events on the device and to permit a user to conveniently pull down detail about the events relating to the notifications into an extended view of the events.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for responding to notification of alerts and responding to messages and the like and also to a touch screen . The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 5GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 5.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 5 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM.

Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that generate notifications about alerts such as newly arriving messages on the device.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as a mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access an email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an image editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for notifications and interactions with messages and other events using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application and a browser application . Each of the applications may generate graphical elements that either do or do not have long press interactions. As described above those that do not have long press interactions may provide no immediate visual feedback when they are first pressed while those that do have such interactions may be highlighted between the time they are first pressed and the expiration of the long press period. Also the highlighting may not occur exactly upon a press so that mere tapping of an item does not cause it to be highlighted instead the highlighting may occur upon the expiration of a short press period that is slightly more than the time period for a tap but appreciably shorter than a long press period.

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example much of this document has been described with respect to messaging and mapping applications but other forms of graphical applications may also be addressed such as interactive program guides web page navigation and zooming and other such applications.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

