---

title: Silver halide photographic material and image forming method using the same
abstract: A silver halide photographic material, includes transparent support having provided thereon a blue-sensitive silver halide emulsion layer, a green-sensitive silver halide emulsion layer and a red-sensitive silver halide emulsion layer, wherein the average equivalent-sphere diameter of the silver halide grains contained in each layers is 0.35 μm or less, and an upper layer of the green-sensitive emulsion layer contains a fixed magenta dye, an upper layer or the red-sensitive emulsion layer contains a fixed cyan dye, and the green-sensitive layer contains a pyrazolotriazole, pyrazolopyrrole or 4-thio-pyrazolo-5-one coupler having a specific structure, and an image-recording method uses the photographic material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07592133&OS=07592133&RS=07592133
owner: Fujifilm Corporation
number: 07592133
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080411
---
The present invention relates to an image forming method using a silver halide photographic material specifically an image forming method of recording a digital data on a silver halide photographic material with little deterioration. The invention further relates to a silver halide photographic material capable of realizing the image forming method.

In the manufacture of a movie a method of making a duplicate by printing on an intermediate film an image data photographed with a negative film for photographing as the original image and further printing the duplicate on a positive film for motion picture to use it for projection has been conventionally used.

In many cases an intermediate film for the manufacture of a duplicate is used two times. An original negative film is printed on a negative type intermediate film to make a master positive film. The master positive image is then again printed on the intermediate film to make a duplicate negative film. Lastly the duplicate negative image is printed on a positive film for motion picture to make a print for screening.

In recent years in the manufacture of movies a method of converting an original image to a film again as an analog image by digital synthesis and edition with a film recorder has been rapidly prevailing. This is for the reason that the degree of freedom of presentation of screen image can be enlarged by the creation of an image that is impossible in the actual world by synthesis and edition with the computer. Various image data can be used as original images for example image data obtained by digitizing the image data photographed with a negative film for photographing with a film scanner image data photographed with an HD video camera image data obtained by computer graphics and the like.

As the number of pixels of an original image for example when a negative film for photographing is digitized with a film scanner to make an image data of 2 048 1 556 the number of pixels is 3 190 000 pixels.

When an original image is conveniently made in a digital data and screened by conventional analog projection as described above processes such that the original image made as a digital data is printed on an intermediate film and then this duplicate image data is printed on a positive film for motion picture similarly to the conventional method are taken.

However when such a method is used a problem has newly arisen with the increase in resolution of digital data. When an original image is printed on a silver halide photographic material the image quality is deteriorated and sufficient image quality for screening cannot be secured. There are problems of the improvement of the deterioration of image qualities ascribable to photographic characteristics of analog silver halide photographic materials such as the occurrence of blur the deterioration of sharpness and the reduction of color reproduction. JP A 10 20461 The term JP A as used herein refers to an unexamined published Japanese patent application . discloses a silver halide color photographic material that is characterized in that the N value of a magenta image by laser scanning exposure is from 100 to 200 m. The N value is the amount corresponding to the blur of an image which patent discloses the decrement of blur of letters in printing on color photographic paper. However a pixel size is 12 m or smaller in resolution of 2 000 dpi or more used in recent years in the field of manufacture of movies so that such an N value is apparently inappropriate in resolving a precise image data.

JP A 62 284344 discloses that in laser film recording with argon Ar laser wavelength 514.5 nm as the green light source little color mixing and improvements in graininess and resolution can be achieved by making coincide the peak wavelength of spectral sensitivity of the green sensitive emulsion layer of a silver halide color photographic material with the wavelength 514.5 nm of argon Ar laser.

However there are no descriptions relating to image recording in high resolution in JP A 7 128791. Further green light source apparatus used in the field of manufacture of movies in recent years is a small size and solid state lasers are mainly used for electric power conservation and the wavelength of the light sources is 532.0 nm so that such a silver halide photographic material as disclosed in JP A 7 128791 is apparently inappropriate in recording a precise digital image data.

Blur and sharpness can be improved by the prevention of light scattering. It has been thought that the greater the surface area of silver halide grains of the constituent of photographic material in particular tabular grains having a greater surface area the greater is light scattering. For example JP A 7 128791 discloses a technique and examples to improve sharpness by containing a fixed magenta dye on a further side from the support of a green sensitive layer containing tabular silver halide grains.

As described above conventional intermediate films are used for duplication by printing thereon with an image data photographed by using a negative film for photographing as an original image so that it is sufficient for conventional intermediate films to use fine silver halide grains having an average equivalent sphere diameter of 0.35 m or less that are almost free from light scattering and capable of highly precise recording.

However when a digital data highly increased in resolution that is different from conventional use is recorded on a limited recording area occurrence of blur reduction of sharpness and deterioration of color reproduction are conspicuous so that conventional intermediate films are insufficient in recording precise images.

Accordingly a silver halide photographic material capable of recording a digital data with little deterioration that is a silver halide photographic material capable of preventing occurrence of blur reduction of sharpness and deterioration of color reproduction and capable of recording a digital data is strongly desired.

Further when digital image data are recorded with a film recorder recording time of 10 hours or longer is required in many cases from the beginning to the end of recording. In this case there is a problem of the fluctuation of photographic performances due to aging from exposure to development process of films i.e. conservation of latent images. There is a difference in time lapsing from exposure to development process between the first part and the last part of recording data and a problem that the tints of images deviate from each other arises. Therefore photographic materials little in the fluctuation of latent image conservation have been strongly desired.

An object of the invention is to provide an image forming method capable of recording a digital data on a silver halide photographic material in high resolution with little deterioration. A further object is to provide a silver halide photographic material capable of realizing the image forming method with little deterioration and having an excellent conservation property of latent images not influenced by aging from exposure to development processing.

The terminology of recording with little deterioration in the invention means to suppress vanishing of the image structure contained in a digital image data at the time of recording as far as possible and suppress the fluctuation of color data at the time of recording as far as possible.

As a result of eager investigations for solving the above problems it has been found that a photographic material free from blur and little in the deterioration of sharpness and color reproduction can be obtained by using fixable dyes and couplers according to the invention in recording highly precise digital data.

a plurality of layers comprising a first photosensitive layer a second photosensitive layer and a third photosensitive layer directly or indirectly fin the transparent support the first photosensitive layer consisting of at least one blue sensitive layer the second photosensitive layer consisting of at least one green sensitive layer and the third photosensitive layer consisting of at least one red sensitive layer 

wherein all silver halide grains contained in the first second and third photosensitive layers each has an average equivalent sphere diameter of 0.35 m or less and

wherein at least one layer that is a layer on the opposite side to the transparent support with the at least one green sensitive layer as a center and not the at least one green sensitive layer contains a fixed magenta dye 

at least one layer that is a layer on the opposite side to the transparent support with the at least one red sensitive layer as a center and not the at least one red sensitive layer contains a fixed cyan dye and

at least one layer of the at least one green sensitive layer contains a coupler represented by formula I or formula Z 

Y represents a nonmetallic atomic group containing 1 or 2 nitrogen atom s and necessary to form a 5 membered azole ring containing 2 or 3 nitrogen atoms which azole ring may contain a substituent that may form a condensed ring with the azole ring and

X represents a hydrogen atom or a group capable of elimination at a time of coupling reaction with an oxidant of a developing agent 

Rand Reach independently represents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an alkoxyl group a halogen group an aryl group an aryloxy group an acylamino group a sulfonamido group a sulfamoyl group a carbamoyl group an arylsulfonyl group an aryloxycarbonyl group an alkoxycarbonyl group an alkoxysulfonyl group an aryloxysulfonyl group an alkylureido group an arylureido group a nitro group a cyano group a hydroxyl group or a carboxyl group 

wherein at least one layer of the at least one green sensitive layer contains sensitizing dyestuffs represented by formula A and formula B 

Z1 and Z2 each independently represents a hydrogen atom a halogen atom a hydroxyl group an alkoxyl group an amino group an acyl group an acylamino group an acyloxy group an alkoxycarbonyl group an alkoxycarbonylamino group an aryl group an aryloxy group an aryloxycarbonyl group a sulfonyl group a carbamoyl group an alkyl group or a cyano group and Z1 and Z2 may be linked to each other to form a ring 

Z4 and Z5 each independently represents a hydrogen atom a halogen atom a hydroxyl group an alkoxyl group an amino group an acyl group an acylamino group an acyloxy group an alkoxycarbonyl group an alkoxycarbonylamino group an aryl group an aryloxy group an aryloxycarbonyl group a sulfonyl group a carbamoyl group an alkyl group or a cyano group and Z4 and Z5 may be linked to each other to form a ring and

wherein at least one layer of the first second and third photosensitive layers contains reduction sensitized silver halide grains and at least one compound selected from the group consisting of the following type 1 and type 2 

type 1 a compound in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons followed by subsequent bond cleavage reaction and

type 2 a compound in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons after having been subjected to subsequent bond forming reaction.

 4 The silver halide photographic material as described in any of 1 to 3 above which is capable of recording digital image data with little deterioration at image recording time of the digital image data in resolution of 2 000 dpi or more.

 5 The silver halide photographic material as described in any of 1 to 4 above which is capable of recording digital image data of 3 000 000 pixels or more with little deterioration.

wherein blur k of a recorded image at a time of digital image recording satisfies the following expression K 4.5 m 0.2 K 

 8 An image forming method comprising recording a digital image data which is recorded on the silver halide photographic material as described in any of 1 to 7 above on another silver halide photographic material by an analog method.

The digital image data in the invention will be described. The digital image data in the invention mean image data obtained by digitizing image data photographed on a negative film for photographing with a film scanner image data photographed with an HD video camera image data obtained by computer graphics and the like. In the manufacture of movies in recent years images of high resolution of 2 000 dpi or so have been used but digital images of resolution as high as 4 000 dpi or more are used in some cases. The silver halide photographic material in the invention can be preferably used in recording of digital image data of from 2 000 to 6 000 dpi.

The number of pixels in the invention will be described. The number of pixels in the invention means the total number of pixels contained in the digital image data in the invention for use in recording on silver halide photographic materials. For example when a negative film for photographing is digitized with a film scanner to make an image data of 2 048 1 556 the number of pixels is 3 190 000 pixels. The silver halide photographic material in the invention can be preferably used in digital image data of from 3 000 000 to 27 000 000 pixels.

In the invention for recording with little deterioration it is preferred for blur k of an image at image recording time to satisfy the following expression K . 4.5 m 0.2 K In expression K D is the coloring density of the silver halide photographic material and blur k is the blur m in coloring density D.

It is preferred that expression K is satisfied in all the exposure light sources that are used in image recording. For example in the case where light sources of three colors of red green and blue are used monochromatic exposure of each color is performed and it is preferred that coloring density D at that time and blur k in density D satisfy expression K .

Further it is preferred for expression K to be satisfied in all the region of from Dmin 0.2 to Dmax but in practice evaluation is carried out at two points of coloring densities Dmin 1 and Dmin 2 and it is an appropriate and preferred condition to satisfy expression K in each density. Here Dmin is a minimum value of coloring density in a photographic material which is equivalent to the density after processing of an unexposed film. Dmax is a maximum value of coloring density in a photographic material. The maximum value of coloring density is equivalent to the maximum value of the density of digital image data. In a case of widely used Cineon system the maximums density is a value between Dmin 2 and Dmin 2.2.

As shown in when stepwise exposure is performed by adjusting the exposure quantity to the photographic material so that the pattern develops color in density D the width of diffusion of blurred part of the color image in the areal direction of the image in density of Dmin 0.2 is measured and this is taken as k the index of blurring. The axis of abscissa in is a distance.

For recording with little deterioration in the invention it is preferred for blur k in image recording to satisfy the above expression K . It is more preferred to satisfy the following expression K 2 and especially preferred to satisfy expression K 3 . 4.0 m 0.2 K 2 3.5 m 0.2 K 3 Evaluating Method of Color Purity Factor 

When sensitometry exposure is carried out by monochromaticity of each of red green and blue and the image density obtained to main coloring density in monochromatic exposure is taken as a and other coloring mixed in the color of the density and different from the main coloring density and the coloring density of a color showing high density is taken as b a color purity factor in the invention is expressed by the following expression B Color purity factor 100 B 

It is preferred the condition that the color purity factor expressed by expression B is 80 or more is obtained in all the region of from Dmin 0.1 to Dmax of the main coloring density and it is preferred that the condition is obtained in every case of monochromatic exposure of red green and blue. Dmin is a minimum value of coloring density in a photographic material which is equivalent to the density after processing of an unexposed film. Dmax is a maximum value of coloring density in a photographic material. The maximum value of coloring density is equivalent to the maximum value of the density of digital image data. In the case of widely used Cineon system the maximum density is a value between Dmin 2 and Dmin 2.2.

In the invention for recording with little deterioration a color purity factor is preferably 80 or more more preferably 85 or more and still more preferably 90 or more.

Apparatus that can be used in the invention in recording digital image data on a silver halide photographic material what is called film recorders are not especially restricted and commercially available apparatus can be used.

As commercially available apparatus for example ARRILASER and ARRILASER HD using BGR laser as a eight source system manufactured by ARRI FURY and FIRESTORM using a CRT system manufactured by CELCO IMAGICA realtime and HSR high speed recorder using an LCOS system manufactured by IMAGICA CORP. and Cinevator One and Cinevator Five manufactured by CINEVATION are exemplified.

For achieving the above objects of the invention it has been apparent from the results of eager examinations that the use of a silver halide photographic material designed so as to lessen the deterioration of an image at recording time is extremely effective. A major cause of the occurrence of blur of an image is in scattering of recording light on the inside of a photographic material and the blur of an image can be conspicuously improved by the reduction of scattered light. Light scattering is largely influenced by silver halide fine grains contained in a photographic material so that it is effective to lessen the use amount of silver halide fine grains as far as possible and to make the size of silver halide fine grains smaller is also effective. Since any of these means results in the reduction of sensitivity of a photographic material it is preferred to heighten the sensitivity of silver halide fine grains in advance. It is known to use a dye to absorb scattered light and this means can be preferably used. There are water soluble dyes and fixable dyes oil soluble dyes or solid dispersible dyes in the dyes and water soluble dyes are conventionally widely used in photographic materials but it has been apparent from the results of our examinations that surprising effects can be obtained by suitable use of fixable dyes oil soluble dyes or solid dispersible dyes . For example in a case where a fixable cyan dye absorbing red light an oil soluble cyan dye or a solid dispersible cyan dye is used it is effective to use the dye in an upper layer nearer to a red color sensitive layer as far as possible. This is presumably due to the fact that the influence of scattered light can be minimized by the elimination of red light having been subjected to scattering in the photographic material just before arriving the red color sensitive layer. Further for increasing color purity it is effective to prevent color mixture. When the use amount of a color mixing preventive used in the intermediate layer between each color sensitive layer is insufficient color mixture by processing occurs while when an excess amount is used the sensitivity of the photographic material is reduced so that it is effective to optimize the amount. It is also important to reduce spectral color mixture by photosensitization of color sensitive layers different from exposure color. For example spectral color mixture can be reduced by making differences between green sensitivity blue sensitivity and red sensitivity in a red color sensitive layer great and it is very effective for that purpose for the wavelengths of red light at the time of recording and red sensitivity of a photographic material to coincide.

It is sufficient for a magenta dye in the invention to have spectral absorption maximum wavelength substantially in the range of from 500 to 600 nm in the dry film of a photographic material to which the dye has been added and dyes may be used by one kind alone or two or more dyes may be used in combination.

It is sufficient for a cyan dye in the invention to have spectral absorption maximum wavelength substantially in the range of from 600 to 700 nm in the dry film of a photographic material to which the dye has been added and dyes may be used by one kind alone or two or more dyes may be used in combination.

In the invention the terminology dye is fixed means that a dye added to an objective layer in preparation of the layer during the manufacture of a photographic material is substantially present in the objective layer without being diffused to layers other than the objective layer even after manufacture. A means to fix a dye in an objective layer may be any means for example the following methods are known.

As the addition methods of a dye to an objective layer a method of directly dyeing gelatin an oil in water dispersion method as described later that is a method of adding a dye by dissolving the dye with a high boiling point organic solvent having a boiling point of 175 C. or higher under normal pressure and if necessary using an organic solvent having a boiling point of from 50 to 160 C. and emulsifying and dispersing the dye in a gelatin aqueous solution containing a surfactant a method of adding a dye of solid dispersion as disclosed in WO 88 4974 JP T 1 502912 the term JP T as used herein refers to a published Japanese translation of a PCT application and EP 0 456 148 and a method of preventing a dye from diffusion via a polymer mordant are exemplified. Representative polymer mordants are disclosed e.g. in JP A 5 188548 chemical 9 . Any of the above methods can be used in the invention.

In the invention dyes are added so as to reach the average optical density of preferably from 0.005 to 0.50 and more preferably from 0.02 to 0.30 in the region of from 500 to 600 nm with a magenta dye and in the region of from 600 to 700 nm with a cyan dye respectively in the dry film of an objective layer. The density is found as follows. A dye is coated with gelatin on a transparent support and dried to prepare a sample and the density of the sample in wavelengths of from 500 to 600 nm or from 600 to 700 nm is measured with a spectrophotometer. An average optical density in the region of 500 to 600 nm or from 600 to 700 nm is found from the integrated value.

The specific examples of magenta dyes and cyan dyes for use in the invention are shown below but the invention is not restricted thereto.

The above exemplified compounds are disclosed in JP A 61 48854 JP A 61 7838. JP A 60 243654 JP A 60 32851 JP A 62 276539 JP A 52 92716 WO 88 04794 JP A 3 7931. JP A 4 45436 and JP A 5 43809 or they can be synthesized according to the methods disclosed in these patents.

In formula I Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Y represents a nonmetallic atomic group necessary to form a 5 membered azole ring containing 2 or 3 nitrogen atoms which azole ring may have a substituent including a condensed ring and X represents a hydrogen atom or a group capable of elimination at the time of coupling reaction with the oxidant of a developing agent.

Of the coupler skeletons represented by formula I for use in the invention preferred skeletons are 1H imidazo 1 2 b pyrazole 1H pyrazolo 1 5 b 1 2 4 triazole and 1H pyrazolo 5 1 c 1 2 4 triazole and they are respectively represented by the following formula M I M II and M III .

Rrepresents a hydrogen atom a halogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group a heterocyclic group a cyano group a hydroxyl group a nitro group a carboxyl group an amino group an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group an acylamino group an alkylamino group an anilino group a ureido group a sulfamoylamino group an alkylthio group an arylthio group an alkoxycarbonylamino group a sulfonamido group a carbamoyl group a sulfamoyl group a sulfonyl group an alkoxycarbonyl group a heterocyclic oxy group an azo group an acyloxy group a carbamoyloxy group a silyloxy group an aryloxycarbonyl amino group an imido group a heterocyclic thio group a sulfinyl group a phosphonyl group an aryloxycarbonyl group an acyl group or an azolyl group. Rmay form a bis group by a divalent group.

More specifically describing Rrepresents a hydrogen atom a halogen atom e.g. a chlorine atom a bromine atom an alkyl group e.g. a straight or branched chain alkyl group having from 1 to 32 carbon atoms an aralkyl group an alkenyl group an alkynyl group a cycloalkyl group or a cycloalkenyl group and specifically e.g. methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl t butyl tridecyl 2 methanesulfonylethyl 3 3 pentadecylphenoxy propyl 3 4 2 4 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfonyl phenoxy dodecanamidophenylpropyl 2 ethoxy tridecyl trifluoromethyl cyclopentyl 3 2 4 di t amyl phenoxy propyl an aryl group e.g. phenyl 4 t butylphenyl 2 4 di t amylphenyl 4 tetradecanamidophenyl a hetero cyclic group e.g. 2 furyl 2 thienyl 2 pyrimidinyl 2 benzothiazolyl a cyano group a hydroxyl group a nitro group a carboxyl group an amino group an alkoxyl group e.g. methoxy ethoxy 2 methoxyethoxy 2 dodecylethoxy 2 methanesulfonylethoxy an aryloxy group e.g. phenoxy 2 methylphenoxy 4 L butylphenoxy 3 nitrophenoxy 3 t butyloxycarbamoylphenoxy 3 methoxycarbamoyl an acylamino group e.g. acetamido benzamido tetradecanamido 2 2 4 di t amylphenoxy butanamido 4 3 t butyl 4 hydroxy phenoxy butanamido 2 4 4 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl phenoxy decanamido an alkylamino group e.g. methylamino butylamino dodecylamino diethylamino methylbutylamino an amino group e.g. phenylamino 2 chloroamino 2 chloro 5 tetradecanaminoanilino 2 chloro 5 dodecyloxy carbonylanilino N acetylanilino 2 chloro 5 3 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenoxy dodecanamido anilino a ureido group e.g. phenylureido methylureido N N dibutylureido a sulfamoyl amino group e.g. N N dipropylsulfamoylamino N methyl N decylsulfamoylamino an alkylthio group e.g. methylthio octylthio tetradecyl thio 2 phenoxyethylthio 3 phenoxypropylthio 3 4 t butyl phenoxy propylthio an arylthio group e.g. phenylthio 2 butoxy 5 t octylphenylthio 3 pentadecylphenylthio 2 carboxyphenylthio 4 tetradecanamidophenylthio an alkoxycarbonylamino group e.g. methoxycarbomylamino tetradecyloxycarbonylamino a sulfonamido group e.g. methanesulfonamido hexadecanesulfonamido benzenesulfonamido p toluenesulfonamido octadecanesulfonamido 2 methyloxy 5 t butylbenzenesulfonamido a carbamoyl group e.g. N ethylcarbamoyl N N dibutylcarbamoyl N 2 dodecyl oxyethyl carbamoyl N methyl N dodecylcarbamoyl N 3 2 4 di t amylphenoxy propyl carbamoyl a sulfamoyl group e.g. N ethylsulfamoyl N N dipropylsulfamoyl N 2 dodecyloxy ethyl sulfamoyl N ethyl N dodecylsulfamoyl N N diethyl sulfamoyl a sulfonyl group e.g. methanesulfonyl octane sulfonyl benzenesulfonyl toluenesulfonyl an alkoxy carbonyl group e.g. methoxycarbonyl butyloxycarbonyl dodecyloxycarbonyl octadecyloxycarbonyl a heterocyclic oxy group e.g. 1 phenyltetrazol 5 oxy 2 tetrahydro pyranloxy an azo group e.g. phenylazo 4 methoxyphenyl azo 4 pivaloylaminophenylazo 2 hydroxy 4 propanoylphenyl azo an acyloxy group e.g. acetoxy a carbamoyloxy group e.g. N methylcarbamyloxy N phenylcarbamoyloxy a silyloxy group e.g. trimethylsilyloxy dibutylmethylsilyl oxy an aryloxycarbonylamino group e.g. phenoxycarbonyl amino an imido group e.g. N succinimido N phthalimido 3 octadecenylsuccinimido a heterocyclic thio group e.g. 2 benzothiazolylthio 2 4 diphenoxy 1 3 5 triazole 6 thio 2 pyridylthio a sulfinyl group e.g. dodecanesulfinyl 3 pentadecylphenylsulfinyl 3 phenoxypropylsulfinyl a phosphonyl group e.g. phenoxyphosphonyl octyloxy phosphonyl phenylphosphonyl an aryloxycarbonyl group e.g. phenoxycarbonyl an acyl group e.g. acetyl 3 phenyl propanoyl benzoyl 4 dodecyloxybenzoyl or an azolyl group e.g. imidazolyl pyrazolyl 3 chloro pyrazol 1 yl triazolyl . Of these substituents groups capable of having a further substituent may further have an organic substituent linking by a carbon atom an oxygen atom a nitrogen atom or a sulfur atom or a halogen atom.

Of these substituents Rpreferably represents an alkyl group an aryl group an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group an alkylthio group a ureido group a urethane group or an acylamino group.

Rrepresents the same group as the substituents represented by Rexemplified above and preferably represents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group a heterocyclic group an alkoxycarbonyl group a carbamoyl group a sulfamoyl group a sulfinyl group an acyl group or a cyano group.

Rrepresents the same group as the substituents represented by Rexemplified above and preferably represents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group a heterocyclic group an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group an alkylthio group an arylthio group an alkoxycarbonyl group a carbamoyl group or an acyl group and more preferably an alkyl group an aryl group a heterocyclic group an alkylthio group or an arylthio group.

X represents a hydrogen atom or a group capable of elimination in the reaction with the oxidant of an aromatic primary amine developing agent. Specifically describing the eliminable groups a halogen atom an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group an acyloxy group an alkyl or aryl sulfonyloxy group an acylamino group an alkyl or aryl sulfonamido group an alkoxycarbonyloxy group an aryloxycarbonyloxy group an alkyl aryl or heterocyclic thio group a carbamoylamino group a 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocyclic group an imido group and an arylazo group are exemplified. These groups may further be substituted with a substituent represented by R.

More specifically describing the eliminable groups a halogen atom e.g. a fluorine atom a chlorine atom a bromine atom an alkoxyl group e.g. ethoxy dodecyloxy methoxy ethylcarbamoylmethoxy carboxypropyloxy methylsulfonyl ethoxy ethoxycarbonylmethoxy an aryloxy group e.g. 4 methylphenoxy 4 chlorophenoxy 4 methoxyphenoxy 4 carboxy phenoxy 3 ethoxycarboxyphenoxy 3 acetylaminophenoxy 2 carboxyphenoxy an acyloxy group e.g. acetoxy tetra decanoyloxy benzoyloxy an alkyl or aryl sulfonyloxy group e.g. methanesulfonyloxy toluenesulfonyloxy an acylamino group e.g. dichloroacetylamino heptafluorobutyrylamino an alkyl or aryl sulfonamido group e.g. methanesulfonamino trifluoromethanesulfonamino p toluenesulfonylamino an alkoxycarbonyloxy group e.g. ethoxycarbonyloxy benzyloxy carbonyloxy an aryloxycarbonyloxy group e.g. phenoxy carbonyloxy an alkyl aryl or heterocyclic thio group e.g. dodecylthio 1 carboxydodecylthio phenylthio 2 butoxy 5 t octylphenylthio tetrazolylthio a carbamoyl amino group e.g. N methylcarbamoylamino N phenyl carbamoylamino a 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocyclic group e.g. imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl 1 2 dihydro 2 oxo 1 pyridyl an imido group e.g. succinimido hydantoinyl and an arylazo group e.g. phenylazo 4 methoxyphenylazo are exemplified. In addition to these groups as eliminable groups bonded via a carbon atom X in some cases takes the form of a bis type coupler obtained by condensation of a 4 equivalent coupler with aldehydes or ketones. Further X may contain photographically useful groups such as a development inhibitor and a development accelerator. X preferably represents a halogen atom an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group an alkyl or aryl thio group or a 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocyclic group bonding to a coupling active site via a nitrogen atom.

The examples of magenta couplers represented by formula I are shown below but the invention is not restricted to these compounds.

The couplers represented by formula I can be synthesized according to the synthesizing methods disclosed in the following patent documents.

The synthesizing method of the compounds represented by formula M I is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 500 630 the compounds represented by formula M II in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 540 654 4 705 863 JP A 61 65245 JP A 62 209457 and JP A 62 249155 the compounds represented by formula M III in JP B 47 27411 the term JP B as used herein refers to an examined Japanese patent publication and U.S. Pat. No. 3 725 067 and the compounds represented by formula M IV are disclosed in JP A 60 33552.

In formula Z a represents an integer of from 0 to 3 b represents an integer of from 0 to 2 Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom an allyl group an alkoxyl group a halogen atom an aryl group an aryloxy group an acylamino group a sulfonamido group a sulfamoyl group a carbamoyl group an arylsulfonyl group an aryloxycarbonyl group an alkoxy carbonyl group an alkoxysulfonyl group an aryloxysulfonyl group an alkylureido group an arylureido group a nitro group a cyano group a hydroxyl group or a carboxyl group Rrepresents a halogen atom an alkyl group or an aryl group X and Y each represents a direct bond or a bonding group and Band Beach represents a stabilizing group not to diffuse a coupler.

In formula Z the examples of Rand Rinclude a hydrogen atom an alkyl group including a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group such as an alkyl group having from 1 to 8 carbon atoms e.g. a methyl group a trifluoromethyl group an ethyl group a butyl group and an octyl group an alkoxyl group such as an alkoxyl group having from 1 to 8 carbon atoms e.g. a methoxy group an ethoxy group a propoxy group a 2 methoxyethoxy group and a 2 ethylhexyloxy group a halogen atom e.g. a chlorine atom a bromine atom and a fluorine atom an aryl group e.g. a phenyl group a naphthyl group and a 4 tolyl group an aryloxy group e.g. a phenoxy group a p methoxyphenoxy group a naphthyloxy group and a tolyloxy group an acylamino group e.g. an acetamido group a benzamido group a butylamido group and a t butylcarbonamido group a sulfonamido group e.g. a methylsulfonamido group a benzenesulfanamido group and a p toluoylsulfonamido group a sulfamoyl group e.g. an N methylsulfamoyl groups an N N diethylsulfamoyl group and an N N dimethylsulfamoyl group a carbamoyl group e.g. an N methylcarbamoyl group and an N N dimethylcarbamoyl group an arylsulfonyl group e.g. a tolylsulfonyl group an aryloxycarbonyl group e.g. a phenoxycarbonyl group an alkoxycarbonyl group such as an alkoxycarbonyl group having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms e.g. a methoxycarbonyl group an ethoxycarbonyl group and a benzyloxycarbonyl group an alkoxysulfonyl group such as an alkoxysulfonyl group having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms e.g. a methoxysulfonyl group an octyloxysulfonyl group and a 2 ethylhexylsulfonyl group an aryloxysulfonyl group e.g. a phenoxysulfonyl group an alkylureido group e.g. an N methylureido group an N N dimethylureido group and an N N dibutylureido group an arylureido group e.g. a phenylureido group a nitro group a cyano group a hydroxyl group and a carboxyl group.

The examples of Rinclude a halogen atom e.g. a chlorine atom a bromine atom and a fluorine atom an alkyl group including a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group such as an alkyl group having from 1 to 8 carbon atoms e.g. a methyl group a trifluoromethyl group an ethyl group a butyl group and an octyl group and an aryl group e.g. a phenyl group a naphthyl group and a 4 tolyl group .

Band Beach represents a stabilizing group i.e. an organic group not to diffuse a coupler from the layer where the coupler is present. As such a stabilizing group an organic hydrophobic group having from 8 to 32 carbon atoms bonded to a coupler directly or via a divalent bonding group X or Y e.g. an alkylene group an imino group an ether group a thioether group a carbonamido group a sulfonamido group a ureido group an ester group an imido group a carbamoyl group or a sulfamoyl group can be exemplified. As the specific examples of preferred stabilizing groups an alkyl group a straight chain branched or cyclic alkyl group an alkylene group an alkoxyl group an alkylaryl group an alkylaryloxy group all acylamidoalkyl group an alkoxyalkyl group an alkoxyaryl group an alkyl group substituted with an aryl group or a heterocyclic group an aryl group substituted with an aryloxyalkoxycarbonyl group and a residue contain both an alkenyl group or an alkenyl long chain aliphatic group and a carboxy group or a water soluble sulfo group as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 337 344 3 418 129 3 892 572 4 138 258 4 451 559 and British Patent 1 494 777 are exemplified.

In the case of describing a compound or a substituent by using the term of group or residue in the invention the described chemical substance includes a fundamental group or residue and a group or a residue having an ordinary substituent. In the case of describing a compound or a substituent by using the term of site the described chemical substance includes an unsubstituted chemical substance alone. An alkyl group includes not only an alkyl site such as each group of methyl ethyl butyl octyl or stearyl but also a site having a substituent such as a halogen atom a cyano group a hydroxyl group a nitro group an amino group or a carboxylate group. On the other hand an alkyl site means each core group alone of methyl ethyl stearyl or cyclohexyl.

The specific examples of the magenta couplers represented by formula Z for use in the invention are shown below but the invention is not restricted to these compounds.

The coupler represented by formula I or Z in the invention can be used generally in the range of from 1 10to 1 mol per mol of silver halide in the layer where the coupler is used and preferably in the range of from 1 10to 8 10mol. The coating amount is preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 g m more preferably from 0.05 to 0.8 g m and still more preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 g m. When two or more green sensitive layers where the coupler is used are coated the coupler in the invention is used at least in one layer and more preferably the coupler is used in all the green sensitive layers.

Couplers for use in the invention can be introduced into at photographic material by various well known dispersing methods. The dispersion of the coupler in the invention can be prepared by dissolving the coupler in a low boiling point or partially water soluble auxiliary organic solvent. As one embodiment of the invention the coupler dispersion can be prepared with or without using a high boiling point organic solvent. An obtained organic solution can be mixed with a gelatin aqueous solution and the resulting mixture can be dispersed through a mechanical stirrer having high shearing generally suited for preparing emulsion dispersion for photographic use or suited for turbulent mixing e.g. a colloid mill a homogenizer a micro fluidizer a high speed mixer an ultrasonic disperser a blade mixer an apparatus of pumping a liquid flow under high pressure through an orifice or an interaction chamber a Gaulin mill or a blender to obtain small grains of an organic phase suspended in an aqueous phase thus emulsified dispersion for photographic use can be prepared.

The dispersion may be prepared with one or more apparatus. The auxiliary organic solvent is removed by evaporation noodle washing or membrane dialysis. The dispersion grains have an average grain size of preferably less than 2 m generally from 0.02 to 2 m or so and more preferably from 0.02 to 0.5 m or so. These methods are disclosed in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 322 027 2 787 544 2 801 170 2 801 171 2 949 360 and 3 396 027.

The examples of high boiling point organic solvents for use in water in oil dispersing methods are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 322 027 and the like. The specific examples of high boiling point organic solvents having a boiling point of 175 C. or higher tinder normal pressure that are used in water in oil dispersing methods include phthalates e.g. dibutyl phthalate dicyclohexyl phthalate di 2 ethylhexyl phthalate decyl phthalate bis 2 4 di t amylphenyl phthalate bis 2 4 di t amylphenyl isophthalate and bis 1 1 diethyl propyl phthalate phosphates or phosphonates triphenyl phosphate tricresyl phosphate 2 ethylhexyl diphenyl phosphate tricyclohexyl phosphate tri 2 ethyl hexyl phosphate tridodecyl phosphate tributoxyethyl phosphate trichloropropyl phosphate and di 2 ethylhexyl phenyl phosphonate benzoates e.g. 2 ethylhexyl benzoate dodecyl benzoate and 2 ethylhexyl p hydroxy benzoate amides e.g. N N diethyldodecanamide N N diethyllauryl amide and N tetradecylpyrrolidone alcohols or phenols e.g. isostearyl alcohol and 2 4 di t amylphenol aliphatic carboxylates e.g. bis 2 ethylhexyl sebacate dioctyl azelate glycerol tributyrate isostearyl lactate and trioctyl citrate aniline derivatives e.g. N N dibutyl 2 butoxy 5 t octylaniline and hydrocarbons e.g. paraffin dodecylbenzene and diisopropyl naphthalene . As auxiliary solvents organic solvents having a boiling point of about 30 C. or higher preferably 50 C. or higher and about 160 C. or lower can be used and ethyl acetate butyl acetate ethyl propionate methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone 2 ethoxyethyl acetate and dimethylformamide are exemplified as representative examples.

The aqueous phase of coupler dispersion for use in the invention preferably contains gelatin as hydrophobic colloid. The hydrophobic colloid may be gelatin or modified gelatins such as acetylated gelatin phthalated gelatin and gelatin oxide. Gelatin may be processed with a base such as line processed gelatin or with art acid such as acid processed ossein gelatin. Further other hydrophilic colloids such as water soluble polymers or copolymers may be used. Although not limitative they include polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate co vinyl alcohol hydroxyethyl cellulose polyacrylic acid poly 1 vinylpyrrolidone sodium polystyrenesulfonate poly 2 acrylamido 2 methane sulfonic acid and polyacrylamide. Copolymers of these polymers having hydrophobic monomers may be used.

Surfactants may be present in the aqueous phase or organic phase or dispersion can be prepared without using a surfactant. Surfactants that can be used in the invention are cationic anionic amphoteric and nonionic surfactants. The proportion of surfactant to a liquid organic solution is generally in the range of from 0.5 to 25 mass in the case where small grain dispersion for photographic use is prepared. In a preferred embodiment of the invention an anionic surfactant is contained in a gelatin aqueous solution. In this specification mass ratio is equal to weight ratio. 

Surfactants especially preferably use in the invention include alkali metal salt of alkylenesulfonic acid e.g. sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate sodium isopropylnaphthalene sulfonate and mixtures of sodium diisopropyl and triisopropyl naphthalenesulfonate alkali metal salt of alkylsulfonic acid e.g. sodium dodecylsulfate and alkali metal salt of alkylsulfosuccinate e.g. sodium bis 2 ethyl hexyl sulfosuccinate.

It is preferred for spectral sensitizing dyestuffs A and B for use in the invention to have proper difference in hydrophilic hydrophobic property. It is known that generally the higher the hydrophobic property of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff the higher is the adsorption energy of the dyestuff onto silver halide grains and the lower the lower. It is also known that the hydrophilic hydrophobic property of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff can be generally controlled by the selection of the nucleus substituent the number of methine chains and the kind of substituents on the N position.

As an index of the hydrophilic hydrophobic property of a compound e.g. ClogP is used. Hydrophilic hydrophobic property can be generally found by a distribution coefficient of octanol water of a compound logP . Specifically hydrophilic hydrophobic property can be obtained by practical measurement according to the flask shaking method described in the following literature 1 .

Literature 1 Yakubutsu no Kozo Kassei Sokan Drug Design to Sayokiko Kenkyu eno Shishin Correlation of Structure and Activity of Chemicals Index to Study of Drug Design and Mechanism of Action Kagaku no Ryoiki Chemical Region compiled by Toshio Fujita the representative of Kozo Kassei Sokan Kondankai Social Gathering of Correlation of Structure and Activity Extra Number No. 122 Chapter 2 pages 43 to 203 published by Nankodo Co. Ltd. 1979 . The flask shaking method is in particular described on pages 86 to 89.

However there are cases where measurement is difficult when logP is 3 or more therefore measurement is regulated by using a model for computing logP. For example there is CLOGP program of Hansch Leo Daylight Chemical Information Systems U.S.A. ClogP can be computed with the version of algorithm of 4.01 and fragment data base of 17. Herein P represents a distribution coefficient of octanol water of a compound and logP is the logarithm thereof. ClogP is logP found by computation and in the invention ClogP is found by computation according to CLOGP program C means that it is found by computation . 

In the above computation ClogP of the spectral sensitizing dyestuff A according to the invention is preferably the case of 0.5 or less more preferably 1.7 or less and most preferably 1.9 or less. ClogP of the spectral sensitizing dyestuff B according to the invention is preferably the case of 1.0 or more more preferably 0.9 or more and most preferably 0.8 or more.

By appropriately controlling the difference in hydrophilic hydrophobic property of spectral sensitizing dyestuffs A and B for use in the invention it is possible to cause difference in adsorption energy onto the surface of silver halide. Further the higher the adsorption energy the higher is the forming efficiency of J association on the surfaces of silver halide grains. Accordingly spectral sensitizing dyestuff B according to the invention high in adsorption energy forms stronger J association on the surfaces of silver halide grains as compared with spectral sensitizing dyestuff A according to the invention does. On the other hand spectral sensitizing dyestuff A according to the invention is taken into J association of spectral sensitizing dyestuff B according to the invention since there is difference in adsorption energy so that mixed J association can be found. That is according to the difference in hydrophilic hydrophobic property between spectral sensitizing dyestuffs A and B for use in the invention it is possible to control the peak wavelength of spectral sensitivity to arbitrary peak wavelength.

Spectral sensitizing dyestuff B taken in which is used in the invention shows stronger adsorptivity as compared with the case where spectral sensitizing dyestuff B is present alone on the surfaces of silver halide grains since spectral sensitizing dyestuff A for use in the invention serves for as an anchor. Therefore starting of the spectral sensitizing dyestuff in the silver halide photographic material can be remarkably improved and color mixture ascribable to transfer of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff to other photosensitive layers can be conspicuously restrained.

That is as is known in the field of the industry two or more kinds of different spectral sensitizing dyestuffs are used in combination to obtain spectral wavelength peak that cannot be obtained by one kind of spectral sensitizing dyestuff alone and it is important to appropriately select spectral sensitizing dyestuffs different in ClogP value for obtaining desired wavelength peak and from the point of prevention of color mixture.

It is preferred to use Compound ExS 21 described in Example 1 of the invention as spectral sensitizing dyestuff A for use in the invention and Compound ExS 22 shown below as spectral sensitizing dyestuff B for use in the invention. By combining these sensitizing dyestuffs it has become possible to obtain spectral sensitivity having absorption maximum in the vicinity of 530 nm suitable for a solid state laser for a green light source used in recent years in the field of manufacture of movies. However it should not be construed that the invention is limited thereto.

In general when adsorption energy of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff onto the surfaces of silver halide grains is high the spectral sensitizing dyestuff remains in the silver halide photographic material after processing and causes color residue. Further when the adsorption energy is low color mixture ascribable to starting of the spectral sensitizing dyestuff to other photosensitive layers occurs.

Accordingly it is important to appropriately set the use ratio of spectral sensitizing dyestuffs different in the hydrophilic hydrophobic property from the viewpoint of prevention of color residue and color mixture.

That is in the invention for recording with little deterioration and free from color mixture and color residue it is preferred for the addition amounts of spectral sensitizing dyestuffs A and B to the emulsions of photosensitive layers to satisfy the following expression II 1 and it is more preferred to satisfy the following expression II 2 . 0.6 formula mol mol Ag formula mol mol Ag 1.6 II 1 0.8 formula mol mol Ag formula mol mol Ag 1.2 II 2 

Silver halide grains of the emulsion to which spectral sensitizing dyestuffs A and B are added are preferably cubic grains having 100 faces as external surfaces. A spectral sensitizing dyestuff is generally thermodynamically more stabilized by external surfaces of silver halide grains of 100 faces than 111 faces. Seeing a silver halide rain from the external surface as to 100 face halogen ion sites on which a spectral sensitizing dyestuff is to be adsorbed are in a row in an orderly way in 110 direction but as to 111 face it is said that silver ion accounts for 3 7 of the lattice points on the uppermost layer so that it can be said that it is relatively difficult for a spectral sensitizing dyestuff to form an association.

Accordingly for recording free from color mixture the silver halide grains are preferably cubic grains having 100 faces as external surfaces

Compounds of type 1 and type 2 to be contained in a silver halide photographic material for use in the invention will be described below.

A compound in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons followed by subsequent bond cleavage reaction

A compound in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons after having been subjected to subsequent bond forming reaction

In compound of type 1 as compounds in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron followed by subsequent bond cleavage reaction 1 photon 2 electron sensitizers and compounds called deprotonated electron donating sensitizers as described in JP A 9 211769 specific examples Compounds PMT 1 to S 37 described in Table E and Table F on pages 28 to 32 JP A 9 211774 and JP A 11 95355 specific examples Compounds INV 1 to 36 JP T 2001 500996 specific examples Compounds 1 to 74 80 to 87 92 to 122 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 747 235 5 747 236 EP 786 692A1 specific examples Compound INV 1 to 35 EP 893 732A1 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 054 260 and 5 994 051 are exemplified. The preferred ranges of these compounds are the same as the preferred ranges cited in respective patents.

Further in compound of type 1 as compounds in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons followed by subsequent bond cleavage reaction the compound represented by the following formula 1 the same meaning as formula 1 disclosed in JP A 2003 114487 the compound represented by the following formula 2 the same meaning as formula 2 in JP A 2003 114487 the compound represented by the following formula 3 the same meaning as formula 1 in JP A 2003 114488 the compound represented by the following formula 4 the same meaning as formula 2 in JP A 2003 114488 the compound represented by the following formula 5 the same meaning as formula 3 in JP A 2003 114488 the compound represented by the following formula 6 the same meaning as formula 1 in JP A 2003 75950 the compound represented by the following formula 7 the same meaning as formula 2 in JP A 2003 75950 the compound represented by the following formula 8 the same meaning as formula 1 in JP A 2004 239943 and of the compounds capable of causing the reaction represented by the following chemical reaction formula 1 the same meaning as chemical reaction formula 1 disclosed in JP A 2004 245929 the compound represented by the following formula 9 the same meaning as chemical reaction formula 3 in JP A 2004 245929 are exemplified. The preferred ranges of these compounds are the same as the preferred ranges cited in respective patents.

In formulae 1 and 2 REDand REDeach represents a reducing group Rrepresents a nonmetallic atomic group capable of forming a cyclic structure corresponding to a tetrahydro form or a hexahydro form of a 5 or 6 membered aromatic ring including an aromatic heterocyclic ring together with carbon atom C and RED R Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Lvand Lveach represents an eliminable group and ED represents an electron donating group.

In formulae 3 4 and 5 Zrepresents an atomic group capable of forming a 6 membered ring together with a nitrogen atom and two carbon atoms of the benzene ring R R R R R R R R R R R Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a substituent but when Rrepresents a group other than an aryl group Rand Rare bonded to each other to form an aromatic ring or an aromatic heterocyclic ring Rand Reach represents a substituent capable of substituting with a benzene ring m1 represents an integer of from 0 to 3 m2 represents an integer of from 0 to 4 and Lv Lvand Lveach represents an eliminable group.

In formulae 6 and 7 REDand REDeach represents a reducing group Rto Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Zrepresents CR R NR or O Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent and Rrepresents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or a heterocyclic group.

In formula 8 REDis a reducing group and represents an arylamino group or a heterocyclic amino group Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a substituent X represents an alkoxyl group an aryloxy group a heterocyclic oxy group an alkylthio group an arylthio group a heterocyclic thio group an alkylamino group an arylamino group or a heterocyclic amino group and Lvis an eliminable group and represents a carboxyl group or a salt thereof or a hydrogen atom.

The compound represented by formula 9 is a compound that further causes bond forming reaction represented by formula 1 by oxidation after 2 electron oxidation accompanied by decarboxylation. In formula 9 . Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring together with C C and Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered cyclic aliphatic hydrocarbon group or a heterocyclic group together with C C. In chemical reaction formula 1 R Rand Zrespectively have the same meaning as those in formula 9 . Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered aryl group or a heterocyclic group together with C C Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group together vital C C and M represents a radical a radical cation or a cation.

In compound of type 2 as compounds in which one electron oxidant formed by oxidation of one electron is capable of further releasing one electron or more electrons after having been subjected to subsequent bond forming reaction the compound represented by the following formula 10 the same meaning as formula 1 disclosed in JP A 2003 140287 and the compound capable of causing the reaction represented by chemical reaction formula 1 the same meaning as chemical reaction formula 1 disclosed in JP A 2004 245929 and represented by the following formula 11 the same meaning as formula 2 disclosed in JP A 2004 245 29 are exemplified. The organic compound capable of forming an n m valent cation n and m each represents an integer of 1 or more from an n valent cation radical followed by intramolecular cyclization reaction as disclosed in JP A 2003 121954 is also included in the compound of type 2. The preferred ranges of these compounds are the same as the preferred ranges cited in respective patents. RED Q Y Formula 10 

In formula 10 REDrepresents one electron oxidized reducing group Y represents a carbon carbon double bonding site a carbon carbon triple bonding site and an aromatic group site capable of forming a new bond by reaction with one electron oxidant formed by one electron oxidation of RED or a reactive group containing a non aromatic heterocyclic site of benzo condensation and Q represents a linking group for linking REDand Y.

The compound represented by formula 11 is a compound causing bond forming reaction represented by chemical reaction formula 1 by being oxidized. In chemical reaction formula 1 Rand Reach represents a hydrogen atom or a substituent Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring together with C C Zrepresents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered aryl group or heterocyclic group together with C C Zand Zeach represents a group forming a 5 or 6 membered cyclic aliphatic hydrocarbon group together with C C and M represents a radical a radical cation or a cation. In formula II R R Zand Zrespectively have the same meaning as those in chemical reaction formula 1 .

Of the compounds of types 1 and 2 preferred compounds are compounds having an adsorptive group to silver halide in the molecule or compounds having a partial structure of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff in the molecule . As the adsorptive group to silver halide the groups disclosed in JP A 2003 156823 page 16 line 1 on the right to page 17 line 12 on the right are representative. The partial structure of a spectral sensitizing dyestuff is the structure disclosed in the same patent page 17 line 34 on the right to page 18 line 6 on the left.

Of the compounds of types 1 and 2 more preferred compounds are compounds having at least one adsorptive group to silver halide in the molecule and still more preferred compounds are compounds having two or more adsorptive groups to silver halide in one and the same molecule . When two or more adsorptive groups are present in one and the same molecule these adsorptive groups may be the same or different from each other.

The examples of preferred adsorptive groups include mercapto substituted nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups e.g. a 2 mercaptothiadiazole group a 3 mercapto 1 2 4 triazole group a 5 mercaptotetrazole group a 2 mercapto 1 3 4 oxadiazole group a 2 mercaptobenzoxazole group a 2 mercaptobenzothiazole group and 1 5 dimethyl 1 2 4 triazolium 3 thiolate group and nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups having an NH group capable of forming imino silver NAg as the partial structure of a heterocyclic ring e.g. a benzotriazole group a benzimidazole group and an indazole group . Especially preferred adsorptive groups are a 5 mercaptotetrazole group a 3 mercapto 1 2 4 triazole group and a benzotriazole group and the most preferred groups are a 3 mercapto 1 2 4 triazole group and a 5 mercapto tetrazole group.

As adsorptive groups groups having two or more mercapto groups in the molecule as the partial structure are also especially preferred. A mercapto group SH may be a thione group when the mercapto group can be tautomerized. The preferred examples of adsorptive groups having two or more mercapto groups as the partial structures dimercapto substituted nitrogen containing heterocyclic group and the like include a 2 4 dimercaptopyrimidine group a 2 4 dimercaptotriazine group and a 3 5 dimercapto 1 2 4 triazole group.

Quaternary salt structures of nitrogen or phosphorus are also preferably used as adsorptive groups. As the quaternary salt structures of nitrogen an ammonium group a trialkyl ammonium group a dialkylaryl or hetero aryl ammonium group and an alkyldiaryl or hetero aryl ammonium group and a group containing a nitrogen containing heterocyclic group containing a quaternized nitrogen atom are specifically exemplified. As the quaternary salt structures of phosphorus a phosphonium group a trialkylphosphonium group a dialkyl aryl or hetero aryl phosphonium group an alkyldiaryl or hetero aryl phosphonium group and a triaryl or hetero aryl phosphonium group are specifically exemplified. More preferably quaternized salt structures of nitrogen are used. Still more preferably 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing aromatic heterocyclic group containing a quaternized nitrogen atom are used. Especially preferably a pyridinium group a quinolinium group and an isoquinolinium group are used. These nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups containing a quaternized nitrogen atom may contain an arbitrary substituent.

As the examples of counter anions of quaternary salts a halogen ion a carboxylate ion a sulfonate ion a sulfate ion a perchlorate ion a carbonate ion a nitrate ion BF PF and PhB exemplified. When a group having negative electric charge in the molecule is present in a carboxylate group and the like inner salt may be formed therewith. As counter anions not present in the molecule a chlorine ion a bromine ion and a methanesulfonate ion are especially preferred.

A preferred structure of a compound of type 1 or 2 having a quaternary salt structure of nitrogen or phosphorus as the adsorptive group is represented by the following formula X . P Q R Q S Formula X 

In formula X P and R each represents a quaternary salt structure of nitrogen or phosphorus not the partial structure of a sensitizing dyestuff and Qand Qeach represents a linking group and specifically a single group of each group or a group comprising combination of these groups of a single bond an alkylene group an arylene group a heterocyclic group O S NRN C O SO SO P O . RN represents a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or a heterocyclic group S represents a residue obtained by removing one atom from the compound of type 1 or 2 i and j each represents an integer of 1 or more and they are selected from the range of i j being from 2 to 6 preferably i is from 1 to 3 and j is 1 or 2 more preferably i is 1 or 2 and j is 1 and especially preferably i is 1 and j is 1. The compound represented by formula X preferably has a total number of carbon atoms of from 10 to 100 more preferably from 10 to 70 still more preferably from 11 to 60 and especially preferably from 12 to 50.

The specific examples of the compounds of type 1 and type 2 are shown below but the invention is not restricted to these examples.

Compounds of type 1 and type 2 for use in the invention may be used in any case of preparation of an emulsion and during manufacturing processes of a photographic material. For example they can be used at the time of forming grains in a desalting process at the time of chemical sensitization or before coating. They can be added in several times separately during these processes. Preferably they are added during the time from termination of grain forming and before desalting process at the time of chemical sensitization from immediately before start of chemical sensitization to just after termination and before coating and more preferably at the time of chemical sensitization and before coating.

The compounds of type 1 and type 2 for use in the invention are preferably added by being dissolved in a water soluble solvent e.g. methanol or ethanol or mixed solvents of these solvents. For dissolution in water with respect to compounds easily soluble at high pH or low pH they may be dissolved at high pH or low pH and then added.

In the invention the compounds of type 1 and or type 2 have an equivalent sphere diameter of 0.35 m or less and they are contained in all emulsion layer containing reduction sensitized silver halide grains. The compounds may be added to a protective layer and an intermediate layer besides the emulsion layer in advance and may be diffused at coating time. The compounds for use in the invention may be added at any time before or after the addition of sensitizing dyestuffs and they are added to a silver halide emulsion layer in the proportion of preferably from 1 10to 5 10mol per mol of the silver halide and more preferably from 1 10to 2 10mol.

The silver halide grains in a photographic emulsion may be grains having regular crystal forms three dimensionally anisotropic such as cubic octahedral and tetradecahedral grains grains having irregular crystal forms such as spherical and tabular grains grains having crystal defects such as twin planes or composites of these grains but cubic grains and octahedral grains are preferably used in the invention and cubic grains are more preferably used.

The grain size of the silver halide grains for use in the invention can be evaluated with an electron microscope. Specifically in the case of a grain having a regular crystal form a projected area corresponding diameter taking the projected area of the grain being equivalent to the area of the circle the diameter of the circle is found by observation with an electron microscope the volume of the grain is computed from the projected area corresponding diameter by making use of the grain being regular crystal and the grain size can be found by computing the diameter of the sphere taking the volume of the grain being equivalent to the volume of the sphere. In the case of an irregular grain not three dimensionally anisotropic such as a tabular grain the volume is computed from the projected area corresponding diameter and the grain thickness obtained by observation with an electron microscope from which the equivalent sphere diameter can be found. The equivalent sphere diameter can also be found by the turbidity measuring method described in Particle Characterization 2Edition items 14 to 19 1985 .

Any grain size of silver halide grains from fine grains to large size grains can be used in the invention but the average equivalent sphere diameter preferably used in the invention is 0.35 m or smaller more preferably 0.3 m or smaller and especially preferably 0.2 m or smaller.

The silver halide preferably used in a photosensitive layer in the invention is silver iodobromide silver iodochloride or silver iodochlorobromide containing 30 mol or less of silver iodide and especially preferably silver iodobromide or silver iodochlorobromide containing from about 2 mol to about 10 mol of silver iodide.

The silver halide photographic emulsions usable in the invention can be prepared according to the methods described e.g. in Research Disclosure hereinafter abbreviated to RD No. 17643 December 1978 pp. 22 23 I. Emulsion preparation and types ibid. No. 18716 November 1979 p. 648 ibid. No. 307105 November 1989 pp. 863 865 P. Glafkides Chimie et Physique Photographiques Paul Montel 1967 G. F. Duffin Photographic Emulsion Chemistry Focal Press 1966 and V. I. Zelikman et al. Making and Coating Photographic Emulsion Focal Press 1964 .

The monodispersed emulsions disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 574 628 3 655 394 and British Patent 1 413 748 can also be preferably used.

Crystal structure may be homogeneous or the inside and outside of crystal structure may consist of heterogeneous halide compositions or may take a laminar structure. Silver halides having different compositions may conjugate by epitaxial conjugation or silver halide may conjugate with compounds other than silver halide e.g. silver rhodanate or lead oxide. Alternatively mixtures of grains of various crystal forms may be used.

The emulsions may have dislocation. For introducing dislocation a method of forming a high silver iodide layer by the addition of an aqueous solution such as alkali iodide a method of adding AgI line grains and the method disclosed in JP A 5 323487 can be used.

The emulsions may be a surface latent image type emulsion forming a latent image mainly on the surface of grains may be an internal latent image type emulsion forming a latent image on the inside of grains or may be the type having latent images both on the surface and inside of grains but negative emulsions are preferred. Of internal latent image type emulsions the core shell type internal latent image type emulsion as disclosed in JP A 63 264740 may be used and the preparing method of the emulsion is disclosed in JP A 59 133542. The thickness of the shell of this type of emulsion differs dependent upon development processing and the like but the thickness is preferably from 3 to 40 nm and especially preferably from 5 to 20 nm.

As reduction sensitization preferably used in the invention any of the following methods can be used for example a method of adding a reduction sensitizer to silver halide a method of growing or ripening silver halide grains in low pAg atmosphere of pAg of 1 to 7 called silver ripening and a method of growing or ripening silver halide grains in high pH atmosphere of pH of 8 to 11 called high pH ripening. Two or more of these methods can be used in combination.

The method of adding a reduction sensitizer is especially preferred for capable of delicately regulating the stage of reduction sensitization.

As reduction sensitizers stannous salt ascorbic acid and derivatives thereof hydroquinone and derivatives thereof catechol and derivatives thereof hydroxylamine and derivatives thereof amine and polyamines hydrazine and derivatives thereof paraphenylenediamine and derivatives thereof formamidinesulfinlic acid thiourea dioxide silane compounds and borane compounds can be exemplified. These reduction sensitizers can be selectively used in the reduction sensitization in the invention and two or more compounds can be used in combination. In connection with the methods of reduction sensitization the methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 518 698 3 201 254 3 411 917 3 779 777 and 3 930 867 and in regarding the using methods of reduction sensitizers JP B 57 33572 JP B 58 1410 and JP A 57 179835 can be used respectively. As the reduction sensitizers catechol and derivatives thereof hydroxylamine and derivatives thereof and formamidinesulfinic acid thiourea dioxide are preferred compounds. The compounds represented by any of the following formulae II and III are also preferably used as reduction sensitizers.

In formulae II and III Wand Weach represents a sulfo group or a hydrogen atom provided that at least one of Wand Wrepresents a sulfo group. A sulfo group is generally an alkali metal salt such as sodium or potassium or a water soluble salt such as ammonium salt. As preferred compounds 3 5 disulfocatechol disodium salt 4 sulfo catechol ammonium salt 2 3 dihydroxy 7 sulfonaphthalene sodium salt and 2 3 dihydroxy 6 7 disulfonaphthalene potassium salt are specifically exemplified.

Since the addition amount of a reduction sensitizer depends upon the manufacturing conditions of emulsion it is necessary to select addition amount but is appropriately from 10to 10mol per mol of the silver halide. A reduction sensitizer is dissolved in water or solvents such as alcohols glycols ketones esters or amides and added to silver halide grains during the grain growth.

As silver halide solvents that can be used in the invention a organic thioethers as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 271 157 3 531 289 3 574 628 JP A 54 1109 and JP A 54 158917 b thiourea derivatives as disclosed in JP A 53 32408. JP A 55 77737 and JP A 55 2982 c silver halide solvents having a thiocarbonyl group between all oxygen or sulfur atom and a nitrogen atom as disclosed in JP A 53 144319 d imidazoles as disclosed in JP A 54 100717 e ammonia and f thiocyanate are exemplified.

Especially preferred solvents are thiocyanate ammonia and tetramethylthiourea. The amount of solvents used depends upon the kinds of solvents. For example in the case of thiocyanate a preferred amount is from 1 10to 1 10mol per mol of the silver halide.

In the manufacture of the emulsion in the invention e.g. at the time of forming grains in desalting process at chemical sensitization or before coating it is preferred to make the salt of a metal ion exist according to purpose. The salt of a metal ion is preferably added at the time of grain formation in the case where grains are doped and is added after forming grains and before termination of chemical sensitization in the case where grain surface is modified or the salt of a metal ion is used as a chemical sensitizer. As described above the whole grain may be doped or the core part of a grain may be doped or the shell part of a grain may be doped or an epitaxial part alone may be doped. For example Mg Ca Sr Ba Al Sc Y La Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Ga Ru Rh Pd Re Os Ir Pt Au Cd Hg Ti In Sn Pb and Bi can be used. These metals can be added so longer as they take the form of salts capable of being dissolved at the time of grain formation such as ammonium salt acetate nitrate sulfate phosphate hydroxy acid salt 6 coordinate complex salt or 4 coordinate complex salt. For example CdBr CdCl Cd NO Pb NO Pb CHCOO K Fe CN H Fe CN KIrCl NH RhCl and KRu CN are exemplified. The ligand of coordination compound can be selected from among halo aquo cyano cyanate thiocyanate nitrosyl thionitrosyl oxo and carbonyl. Metal compounds can be used alone or two or three or more may be used in combination.

It is preferred for metal compounds to be added by being dissolved in water or a proper organic solvent such as methanol or acetone. For the stabilization of the solution a method of adding an aqueous solution of hydrogen halide e.g. HCl HBr or alkali halide e.g. KCl NaCl KBr NaBr can be used. Further acid or alkali may be added if necessary. Metal compounds can be put into a reaction vessel before forming grains or may be added during forming rains. Metal compounds can also be added to water soluble silver salt e.g. AgNO or an aqueous solution of alkali halide e.g. NaCl KBr KI and continuously added during forming silver halide grain. Further a solution independent from an aqueous solution of water soluble silver salt or alkali halide may be prepared and continuously added at proper time during grain formation. It is also preferred to combine various addition methods.

There are cases where a method of adding a chalcogen compound during preparation of grains as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 772 031 is useful. Cyanogen salt thiocyanogen salt selenocyanate carbonate phosphate acetate may be present besides S Se and Te.

The silver halide grains for use in the invention can be subjected to at least any one of sulfur sensitization selenium sensitization tellurium sensitization gold sensitization palladium sensitization noble metal sensitization and reduction sensitization in an arbitrary process of the manufacturing processes of a silver halide emulsion. It is preferred to use two or more kinds of sensitization methods in combination. Depending upon the process wherein silver halide grains are chemically sensitized various types of emulsions can be prepared. There are emulsions of a type having a chemically sensitized speck buried inside a grain of a type having a chemically sensitized speck buried at the shallow place from the surface of a grain and of a type having a chemically sensitized speck formed on the surface of a grain. The emulsion for use in the invention can select the place of a chemically sensitized speck according to purposes. An emulsion having formed at least one chemically sensitized speck in the vicinity of the surface of a grain is generally preferred.

One chemical sensitization that can be preferably carried out in the invention is alone or combination of chalcogen sensitization and noble metal sensitization which chemical sensitization can be performed with activated gelatin as described in T. H. James The Theory of the Photographic Process 4Ed. pp. 67 76. Macmillan 1977 and sulfur selenium tellurium gold platinum palladium or iridium or a combination of a plurality of these sensitizers can be used at pAg of from 5 to 10 pH of from 5 to 8 and temperature of from 30 to 50 C. as described in Research Disclosure Vol. 120 12008 April 1974 Research Disclosure Vol. 34 13452 June 1975 U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 642 361 3 297 446 3 772 031 3 857 711 3 901 714 4 266 018 and 3 904 415 and British Patent 1 315 755. In noble metal sensitization noble metal salts of gold platinum palladium and iridium can be used and gold sensitization palladium sensitization and combination of both sensitizations are especially preferred.

In gold sensitization gold salts described in P. Glafkides Chimie et Physique Photographique 5Ed. Paul Montel 1987 and Research Disclosure Vol. 307 No. 307105 can be used.

As specific examples chloroauric acid potassium chloroaurate potassium aurithiocyanate and the compounds disclosed in the following patents can be used U.S. Pat. No. 2 642 361 gold sulfide and gold selenide U.S. Pat. No. 3 503 749 gold thiolate having a water soluble group U.S. Pat. No. 5 049 484 bis methylhydantoinate gold complex U.S. Pat. No. 5 049 485 meso ionic thiolate gold complex e.g. 1 4 5 trimethyl 1 2 4 triazolium 3 thiolate gold complex U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 252 455 and 5 391 727 macrocyclic hetero cyclic gold complexes and gold compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 620 841 5 700 631 5 759 760 5 759 761 5 912 111 5 912 112 5 939 245 JP A 1 147537 JP A 8 69074 JP A 8 69075 JP A 9 269554 JP B 45 29274 German Patents DD 264 524A 264 525A 265 474A 298 321A JP A 2001 75214 JP A 2001 75215 JP A 2001 75216 JP A 2001 75217 and JP A 2001 75218 can also be used.

The palladium compound means divalent or tetravalent salts of palladium. A preferred palladium compound is represented by RPdXor RPdX where R represents a hydrogen atom an alkali metal atom or an ammonium group and X represents a halogen atom. e.g. a chlorine bromine or iodine atom.

Specifically KPdCl NH PdCl NaPdCl NH PdCl LiPdCl NaPdCland KPdBrare preferred. It is preferred to use gold compounds and palladium compounds in combination of thiocyanate or selenocyanate.

In sulfur sensitization labile sulfur compounds are used. Labile sulfur compounds as described in P. Glafkides Chimie et Physique Photographique 5Ed. Paul Montel 1987 and Research Disclosure Vol. 307 No. 307105 can be used.

Specifically known sulfur compounds such as thiosulfate e.g. hypo thioureas e.g. diphenylthiourea triethylthiourea N ethyl N 4 methyl 2 thiazolyl thiourea dicarboxymethyl dimethylthiourea carboxymethyl trimethyl thiourea thioamides e.g. thioacetamide rhodanines e.g. diethylrhodanine 5 benzylidene N ethylrhodanine phosphine sulfides e.g. trimethylphosphine sulfide thiohydantoins 4 oxo oxazolidine 2 thiones disulfides polysulfides e.g. dimorpholine disulfide cystine hexathiocan thione mercapto compounds e.g. cysteine polythionate and elemental sulfur and activated gelatin can be used in sulfur sensitization. Of these compounds thiosulfate thioureas phosphine sulfides and rhodanines are especially preferred.

In selenium sensitization labile selenium compounds are used e.g. the compounds disclosed in JP B 43 113489 JP B 44 15748 JP A 4 25832 JP A 4 109340 JP A 4 271341 JP A 5 40324 JP A 5 11385 JP A 6 51415 JP A 6 175258 JP A 6 180478 JP A 6 208186 JP A 6 208184 JP A 6 317867 JP A 7 92599 JP A 7 98483 and JP A 7 140579 can be used.

Specifically colloidal metal selenium selenoureas e.g. N N dimethylselenourea trifluoromethylcarbonyl trimethylselenourea acetyl trimethylselenourea seleno amides e.g. selenoamide N N diethylphenylselenoamide phosphine selenides e.g. triphenylphosphine selenide pentafluorophenyl triphenylphosphine selenide seleno phosphates e.g. tri p tollylselenophosphate tri n butyl selenophosphate selenoketones e.g. selenobenzophenone isoselenocyanates selenocarboxylic acids seleno esters e.g. methoxyphenylselenocarboxy 2 2 dimethoxycyclohexane ester and diacyl selenides will suffice for selenium sensitization. Further non labile selenium compounds disclosed in JP B 46 4553 and JP B 52 34492 e.g. selenious acid selenocyanic acid e.g. potassium selenocyanate selenazoles and selenides can also be used. Phosphine selenides selenoureas seleno esters and selenocyanic acids are especially preferred.

In tellurium sensitization labile tellurium compounds are used and the labile tellurium compounds disclosed in JP A 4 224595 JP A 4 271341 JP A 4 333043 JP A 5 303157 Japanese Patent Application Nos. 4 185004 4 330495 4 333030 5 4203 5 4204 5 106977 and 5 286916 can be used.

Specifically it will be sufficient for tellurium sensitization to use phosphine tellurides e.g. butyl diisopropylphosphine telluride tributylphosphine telluride tributoxyphosphine telluride ethoxydiphenylphosphine telluride diacyl di tellurides e.g. bis diphenyl carbamoyl ditelluride bis N phenyl N methylcarbamoyl ditelluride bis N phenyl N methylcarbamoyl telluride bis N phenyl N benzylcarbamoyl telluride bis ethoxy carbonyl telluride telluroureas e.g. N N dimethyl ethylenetellurourea N N diphenylethylenetellurourea telluroamides and telluro esters.

As useful chemical sensitizer assistants compounds known to restrain fog during chemical sensitization and increase sensitivity such as azaindene azapyridazine and azapyrimidine are used. The examples of chemical sensitizer assistant modifiers are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 131 038 3 411 914 3 554 757 JP A 58 126526 and G. F. Duffin Photographic Emulsion Chemistry pp. 138 to 143.

The amount of gold sensitizers and chalcogen sensitizers for use in the invention varies according to the silver halide grains used and the conditions of chemical sensitization but the amount is preferably from 10to 10mol per mol of the silver halide and more preferably from 10to 10mol or so.

The conditions of chemical sensitization in the invention are not especially restricted but pAg is preferably from 6 to 11 more preferably from 7 to 10 pH is preferably from 4 to 10 more preferably from 5 to 8 and temperature is preferably from 40 to 95 C. and more preferably from 45 to 85 C.

It is preferred to use an oxidizing agent to silver during the manufacture of emulsion. The oxidizing agent to silver means a compound having function of capable of acting on a metallic silver to convert it to a silver ion. Compounds capable of converting very minute silver grains by produced in the forming process of silver halide grains and a chemical sensitization process into silver ions are particularly effective. The silver ions formed may be hardly water soluble silver salts such as silver halide silver sulfide and silver selenide or easily water soluble silver salts such as silver nitrate. The oxidizing agent to silver may be inorganic or organic. The examples of inorganic oxidizing agents include e.g. ozone hydrogen peroxide and adducts thereof e.g. NaBO.HO.3HO 2NaCO.3HO NaPO.2HO 2NaSO.HO.2HO peroxy acid salts e.g. KSO KCO KPO peroxy complex compounds e.g. K Ti O CO .3HO 4KSO.Ti O OH.SO.2HO Na VO O CH 6HO permanganates e.g. KMnO oxyacid salts such as chromates e.g. KCrO halogen elements e.g. iodine and bromine halogen peracid salt e.g. potassium periodate the salts of high valency metals e.g. potassium hexacyanoferrate III and thiosulfonate.

The examples of organic oxidizing agents include quinones e.g. p quinone organic peroxides e.g. peracetic acid and perbenzoic acid and compounds releasing activated halogen e.g. N bromosuccinimide chloramine T and chloramine B .

The oxidizing agents preferably used in the invention are inorganic oxidizing agents such as ozone hydrogen peroxide and adducts thereof halogen elements and thiosulfonate and organic oxidizing agents such as quinones. It is preferred to use in combination of the reduction sensitization with the oxidizing agents to silver. Reduction sensitization may be performed after using oxidizing agents or ice versa or both may coincide with each other. These methods can be used selectively in a grain forming process or a chemical sensitization process.

The photographic emulsion for use in the invention can contain various compounds for the purpose of preventing fogging and stabilizing photographic performances in the process of manufacturing during preservation or photographic processing of a photographic material. That is many compounds know as antifoggants and stabilizers can be added to the photographic emulsion such as thiazoles e.g. benzothiazolium salt nitroimidazoles nitrobenzimidazoles chlorobenzimidazoles bromobenzimidazoles mercaptothiazoles mercaptobenzo thiazoles mercaptobenzimidazoles mercaptothiadiazoles aminotriazoles benzotriazoles nitrobenzotriazoles mercaptotetrazoles in particular 1 phenyl 5 mercapto tetrazole mercaptopyrimidines mercaptotriazines thioketo compounds e.g. oxazolinethione azaindenes e.g. triazaindenes tetraazaindenes in particular 4 hydroxy substituted 1 3 3a 7 tetraazaindenes and pentaazaindenes. For example the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 954 474 3 982 947 and JP B 52 28660 can be used. As one preferred compound the compound disclosed in JP A 63 212932 is exemplified. Antifoggants and stabilizers can be added at various times according to purposes e.g. before grain formation during grain formation after grain formation in a water washing process at the time of dispersion after water washing before chemical sensitization during chemical sensitization after chemical sensitization and before coating. In addition to manifestations of original prevention of fogging and stabilization effect by the addition during preparation of emulsion antifoggants and stabilizers can be used for various purposes such as controlling the crystal habits of grains lessening a grain size reducing the solubility of grains restraining chemical sensitization controlling the arrangement of dyestuffs and the like.

It is preferred for the photographic emulsion for use in the invention to be spectrally sensitized with methine dyestuffs and the like in view of revealing the effect of the intention. The dyestuffs that are used include cyanine dyestuffs merocyanine dyestuffs complex cyanine dyestuffs complex merocyanine dyestuffs holopolar cyanine dyestuffs hemicyanine dyestuffs styryl dyestuffs and hemioxonol dyestuffs. Especially useful dyestuffs are dyestuffs belonging to cyanine dyestuffs merocyanine dyestuffs and complex merocyanine dyestuffs. Every nucleus of basic heterocyclic nuclei generally used in cyanine dyestuffs can be applied to these dyestuffs. That is e.g. a pyrroline nucleus an oxazoline nucleus a thiazoline nucleus a pyrrole nucleus an oxazole nucleus a thiazole nucleus a selenazole nucleus an imidazole nucleus a tetrazole nucleus a pyridine nucleus nuclei obtained by condensing an alicyclic hydrocarbon ring on these nuclei and nuclei obtained by condensing an aromatic hydrocarbon ring on these nuclei e.g. an indolenine nucleus a benzindolenine nucleus an indole nucleus a benzoxazole nucleus a naphthoxazole nucleus a benzothiazole nucleus a naphthothiazole nucleus a benzoselenazole nucleus a benzimidazole nucleus and a quinoline nucleus can be applied. These nuclei may have a substituent on the carbon atoms.

As the nuclei having a ketomethylene structure 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic nuclei e.g. a pyrazolin 5 one nucleus a thiohydantoin nucleus a 2 thiooxazolidine 2 4 dione nucleus a thiazolidine 2 4 dione nucleus a rhodanine nucleus a thiobarbituric acid nucleus can be applied to merocyanine dyestuffs or complex merocyanine dyestuffs.

These sensitizing dyestuffs may be used alone or may be used in combination and combination of sensitizing dyestuffs is often used for the purpose of supersensitization. The representative examples thereof are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 688 545 2 977 229 3 397 060 3 522 052 3 527 641 3 617 293 3 628 964 3 666 480 6712898 3 679 428 3 703 377 3 769 301 3 814 609 3 837 862 4 026 707 British Patents 1 344 281 1 507 803 JP B 43 4936. JP B 53 12 375. JP A 52 110618 and JP A 52 109925.

There may be contained in an emulsion together with sensitizing dyestuffs a dyestuff having no spectral sensitizing action by itself or a material not substantially absorbing visible rays but showing supersensitization. The time of addition of sensitizing dyestuffs to an emulsion may be at any stage of the preparation of the emulsion recognized as useful hitherto. Sensitizing dyestuffs are most generally added during the period after termination of chemical sensitization and before coating but as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 628 969 and 4 225 666 they may be added at the same time with a chemical sensitizer and spectral sensitization may be performed simultaneously with chemical sensitization. Alternatively as disclosed in JP A 58 113928 spectral sensitization can be carried out prior chemical sensitization and it is also possible to add sensitizing dyestuffs before completion of precipitation formation of silver halide grains to initiate spectral sensitization. Further as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 225 666 sensitizing dyestuffs can be divided and added separately for example one part is added prior to chemical sensitization and the remaining after completion of chemical sensitization and they may be added in any stage of silver halide grain formation including the method disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 183 756. The addition amount of sensitizing dyestuffs is from 4 10to 8 10mol per mol of the silver halide.

It is sufficient that photographic materials to which the method of the invention is applicable have at least one blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer at least one green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer at least one red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer and a photo insensitive layer on a support. A representative example is a silver halide photographic material comprising a support having thereon photosensitive layers of blue sensitive green sensitive and red sensitive layers of a plurality of silver halide emulsion layers having substantially the same color sensitivity and different in photosensitivity and at least one photo insensitive layer. The photosensitive layers are unit photosensitive layers having color sensitivity to any of blue light green light and red light. In a multilayer silver halide color photographic material the unit photo sensitive layers are generally arranged in the order of a red sensitive layer a green sensitive layer and a blue sensitive layer from the support side. However the order of arrangement can be reversed depending upon purposes alternatively the photosensitive layers may be arranged in such a way that a layer having different photosensitivity is interposed between layers having the same color sensitivity. Photo insensitive layers may be provided between and on the uppermost layer and beneath the lowermost layer of the silver halide photosensitive layers. These photo insensitive layers may contain the couplers DIR compounds and color mixing preventives described later. As the plurality of silver halide emulsion layers constituting each unit photosensitive layer a two layer structure of a high sensitivity emulsion layer and a low sensitivity emulsion layer can be preferably used with the emulsion layers being arranged so as to decrease in sensitivity toward the support in turn as disclosed in German Patent 1 121 470 and British Patent 923 045. In addition a low sensitivity emulsion layer may be provided farther from the support and a high sensitivity emulsion layer may be provided nearer to the support as disclosed in JP A 57 112751 JP A 62 200350 JP A 62 206541 and JP A 62 206543.

As a specific example a low sensitivity blue sensitive layer BL a high sensitivity blue sensitive layer BH a high sensitivity green sensitive layer GH a low sensitivity green sensitive layer GL a high sensitivity red sensitive layer RH a low sensitivity red sensitive layer RL or BH BL GL GH RH RL or BH BL GH GL RL RH can be arranged in this order from the side farthest from the support.

As disclosed in JP B 55 34932 a blue sensitive layer GH RH GL RL can be arranged in this order from the side farthest from the support. Further a blue sensitive layer GL RL GH RH can be arranged in this order from the side farthest from the support as disclosed in JP A 56 25738 and JP A 62 63936.

Further arrangements include the arrangement in which there are three layers having different degrees of sensitivities with the sensitivity being lower towards the support such that the uppermost layer is a silver halide emulsion layer having the highest sensitivity the middle layer is a silver halide emulsion layer having a lower sensitivity than that of the uppermost layer and the lowermost layer is a silver halide emulsion layer having a lower sensitivity than that of the middle layer as disclosed in JP B 49 15495. In the case of the structure of this type comprising three layers having different degrees of sensitivities the layers in the unit layer of the same color sensitivity may be arranged in the order of a middle sensitivity emulsion layer a high sensitivity emulsion layer a low sensitivity emulsion layer from the side farthest from the support as disclosed in JP A 59 202464.

Alternatively the layers can be arranged in the order of a high sensitivity emulsion layer a low sensitivity emulsion layer a middle sensitivity emulsion layer or a low sensitivity emulsion layer a middle sensitivity emulsion layer a high sensitivity emulsion layer.

Moreover the arrangement may be varied as indicated above in the case where there are four or more layers.

A silver halide photographic material for use in the method of the invention comprises a transparent support having provided thereon at least one blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer at least one green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer and at least one red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer and it is preferred that at least one layer that is a layer on the opposite side to the support with the green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer as the center and not the green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer contains a fixed magenta dye and or at least one layer that is a layer on the side of the support with the green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer as the center and not the green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer contains a fixed magenta dye and it is also preferred that at least one layer that is a layer on the opposite side to die support with the red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer as the center and not the red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer contains a fixed cyan dye.

Further in a silver halide photographic material comprising a transparent support having provided thereon at least one blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer at least one green sensitive silver halide emulsion layer and at least one red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer it is also preferred that at least one layer that is a layer on the opposite side to the support with the red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer as the center and not the red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer contains a fixed cyan dye.

In the photographic material of the invention two or more types of emulsions that are different in terms of at least one of the characteristics of grain size grain size distribution halide composition shape of the grains and sensitivity of the photosensitive silver halide emulsion can be used in admixture in one and the same layer.

It is preferred to use the silver halide grains having a fogged grain surface as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 553 the silver halide grains having a fogged grain interior as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 626 498 and JP A 59 214852 or colloidal silver in photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers and or substantially photo insensitive hydrophilic colloid layers. Silver halide grains having a fogged grain interior or surface are silver halide grains that can be developed uniformly not imagewise irrespective of whether these grains are in an unexposed area or an exposed area of the photographic material and methods of the preparation of these silver halide grains are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 626 498 and JP A 59 214852. The silver halide that forms the internal nuclei of core shell type silver halide grains having a forged grain interior may have different halide compositions. The silver halide having a fogged grain interior or surface may be any of silver chloride silver bromide silver iodobromide or silver chloroiodobromide. Further the form of the grains may be regular grains and may be a polydispersed emulsion but a monodispersed emulsion at least 95 of which have a grain size within 40 of the average equivalent sphere diameter in terms of the mass or number of silver halide grains is preferred.

It is preferred to use photo insensitive fine grained silver halides in the invention. Photo insensitive fine grained silver halides are fine grained silver halides that are not sensitive to light upon imagewise exposure for obtaining color images and do not substantially undergo development in development processing and they are preferably not pre fogged. The content of silver bromide of fine grained silver halides is from 0 to 100 mol and at least one of silver chloride and silver iodide may be contained if necessary. Fine grained silver halides having a silver iodide content of from 0.5 to 10 mol are preferred.

Fine grained silver halide can be prepared by the same methods as the preparation of generally used photosensitive silver halides. In the preparation of fine grained silver halide the surfaces of the silver halide grains may be or may not be spectrally or chemically sensitized. Further it is preferred that known stabilizers such as triazole based azaindene based benzothiazolium based or mercapto based compounds or zinc compounds are previously added to the fine grained silver halide before addition to a coating solution. Colloidal silver can be contained in the layer containing the fine grained silver halide grains.

For the improvement of sharpness the coating weight of silver in the photographic material of the invention is preferably 8.0 g mor less more preferably from 5.0 g mor less and most preferably 3.0 g mor less.

The photographic additives usable in the invention are also described in RD and locations related thereto are indicated in the following table.

Various dyestuff forming couplers can be used in the invention and the following couplers are especially preferred.

The couplers represented by formula I or II disclosed in EP 502 424A the couplers represented by formula 1 or 2 disclosed in EP 513 496A in particular Y 28 on page 18 the couplers represented by formula 1 disclosed in claim 1 of EP 568 037A the couplers represented by formula 1 column 1 lines 45 to 55 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 576 the couplers represented by formula 1 paragraph 0008 disclosed in JP A 4 274425 the couplers disclosed in claim 1 on page 40 in EP 498 381 A in particular D 35 on page 18 the couplers represented by formula Y on page 4 disclosed in EP 447 969A in particular Y 1 page 17 and Y 54 page 41 and the couplers represented by any of formulae II to IV column 7 lines 36 to 58 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 476 219 in particular II 17 and II 19 column 17 and II 24 column 19 

L 57 page 11 right lower column L 68 page 12 right lower column and L 77 page 13 right lower column disclosed in JP A 3 39737 A 4 63 page 134 and A 4 73 to A 4 75 page 139 disclosed in EP 456 257 M 4 at M 6 page 26 and M 7 page 27 disclosed in EP 486 965 M 45 page 19 disclosed in EP 571 959A M 1 page 6 disclosed in JP A 5 204106 and M 22 paragraph 0237 disclosed in JP A 4 362631

CX 1 CX 3 CX 4 CX 5 CX 11 CX 12 CX 14 and CX 15 pages 14 to 16 disclosed in JP A 4 204843 C 7 and C 10 Page 35 C 34 and C 35 page 37 and I 1 and I 17 pages 42 and 43 disclosed in JP A 4 43345 and the couplers represented by formula Ia or Ib disclosed in claim 1 of JP A 6 67385

The couplers disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 366 237 British Patent 2 125 570 EP 96 873B and German Patent 3 234 533 are preferred as couplers the colored dyestuffs of which have an appropriate diffusibility.

The examples of preferred couplers for correcting the unnecessary absorption of colored dyestuffs include the yellow colored cyan couplers represented by formula CI CII CIII or CIV disclosed on page 5 of EP 456 257A in particular YC 86 on page 84 the yellow colored magenta couplers ExM 7 page 202 EX 1 page 249 and EX 7 page 251 disclosed in EP 456 257A the magenta colored cyan couplers CC 9 column 8 and CC 13 column 10 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 833 069 the coupler 2 column 8 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 837 136 and the colorless masking couplers represented by formula A disclosed in claim 1 of WO 92 11575 in particular the compounds disclosed on pages 36 to 45 .

The examples of compounds inclusive of couplers that release photographically useful residual groups of compounds upon reacting with the oxidation product of a developing agent include the following 

The compounds represented by formula I II III or IV disclosed on page 11 of EP 378 236A in particular T 101 page 30 T 104 pane 31 T 113 page 36 T 131 page 45 T 144 page 51 and T 158 page 58 the compounds represented by formula I disclosed on page 7 of EP 436 938A in particular D 49 page 51 the compounds represented by formula 1 disclosed in EP 568 037A in particular 23 page 11 and the compounds represented by formula I II or III disclosed on pages 5 and 6 in EP 440 195A in particular I 1 on page 29 

The compounds represented by formula I or I disclosed on page 5 in EP 310 125A in particular 60 and 61 on page 1 and the compounds represented by formula I disclosed in claim 1 in JP A 6 59411 in particular 7 on page 7 

The compounds represented by LIG X disclosed in claim 1 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 555 478 in particular the compounds in lines 21 to 41 column 12 

The compounds represented by COUP DYE disclosed in claim 1 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 774 181 in particular Compounds 1 to 11 in columns 7 to 10 

The compounds represented by formula 1 2 or 3 column 3 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 656 123 in particular Compound 1 22 in column 25 and Compound ExZK 2 lines 36 to 38 page 75 in EP 450 637A

The compounds represented by formula I disclosed in claim 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 857 447 in particular Y 1 to Y 19 in columns 25 to 36 

P 3 P 5 P 16 P 19 P 25 P 30 P 42 P 49 P 54 P 55 P 66 P 81 P 85 P 86 and P 93 paces 140 to 144 disclosed in JP A 62 215272

The compounds represented by formula 1 lines 54 to 62 column 2 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 978 606 in particular I 1 I 2 I 6 and I 12 columns 4 and 5 and the compounds represented by the formula disclosed in lines 5 to 10 column 2 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 923 787 in particular Compound 1 column 3 

The compounds represented by formula I II or III lines 30 to 33 page 4 of EP298 321A in particular I 47 I 72 III 1 and III 27 pages 24 to 48 

A 6 A 7 A 20 A 21 A 23 A 24 A 25 A 26 A 30 A 37 A 40 A 42 A 48 A 63 A 90 A 92 A 94 and A 164 pages 69 to 118 disclosed in EP 298 321A II 1 to III 23 columns 25 to 38 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 122 444 in particular III 10 I 1 to III 4 pages 8 to 12 of EP 471 347A in particular II 2 and A 1 to A 48 columns 32 to 40 in U.S. Pat. No. 5 139 931 in particular A 39 and A 42 

H 1 H 4 H 6 H 8 and H 14 page 17 of JP A 1 214845 the compounds represented by any of formulae VII to XII columns 13 to 23 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 618 573 H 1 to H 54 the compounds represented by formula 6 right lower column page 8 of JP A 2 214852 H 1 to H 76 in particular H 14 and the compounds disclosed in claim 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 3 325 287

P 24 P 37 and P 39 on pages 6 and 7 of JP A 62 168139 and the compounds disclosed in claim 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 492 in particular Compounds 28 and 29 in column 7 

I 1 to III 43 in columns 3 to 15 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 923 790 in particular II 1 II 9 II 10 II 18 and III 25 

I 1 to 14 columns 6 to 16 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 923 793 in particular I 1 60 2 and 13 and Compounds 1 to 65 in columns 25 to 32 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 952 483 in particular Compound 36 

a 1 to b 20 pages 15 to 18 in particular a 1 a 12 a 18 a 27 a 35 a 36 and b 5 and V 1 to V 23 pages 27 to 29 in particular V 1 of JP A 3 156450 F I 1 to F II 43 pages 33 to 55 of EP 445 627A in particular F I 11 and F II 8 III 1 to III 36 pages 17 to 28 of EP 457 153A in particular III 1 and III 3 crystallite dispersions of Dye 1 to Dye 124 on pages 8 to 26 of WO 88 04794 Compounds 1 to 22 on pages 6 to 11 of EP 319 999A in particular Compound 1 Compounds D 1 to D 87 represented by any of formulae 1 to 3 pages 3 to 28 of EP 519 306A Compounds 1 to 22 represented by formula I columns 3 to 10 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 268 622 and Compounds 1 to 31 represented by formula I on columns 2 to 9 of U.S. Pat. No. 4 923 788

Compounds 18b to 18r represented by formula 1 101 to 427 on pages 6 to 9 of JP A 46 3335 Compounds 3 to 66 represented by formula I on paces 10 to 44 and Compounds HBT 1 to HBT 10 represented by formula III on page 14 of EP 520 938A and Compounds 1 to 31 represented by formula 1 in columns 2 to 9 of EP 521 823A

Suitable supports usable in the invention are described e.g. in RD No. 17643 page 28 ibid. No. 18716 from right column on page 647 to left column on page 648 and ibid. No. 307105 page 879.

The total thickness from the photosensitive silver halide layer nearest to the support to the surface of the photographic material of the invention is preferably 24 m or less more preferably 22 m or less and most preferably 20 m or less. Further the film swelling rate T1 2 is preferably 30 seconds or less and more preferably 20 seconds or less. Taking 90 of the maximum swollen film thickness reached when a film is processed at 30 C. for 3 minutes and 15 seconds in a color developing solution as the saturated film thickness T1 2 is defined as the time to reach of the saturated film thickness. The film thickness means the film thickness measured under conditions of 25 C. relative humidity of 55 stored for 2 days and T1 2 can be measured using a swellometer of the type described in A. Green Photogr. Sci. Eng. Vol. 19 No. 2 pages 124 to 129. T1 2 can be adjusted by adding hardening agents to gelatin that is used as a binder or by changing the aging conditions after coating. Further a swelling factor of from 150 A to 400 is preferred. The swelling factor can be computed from the maximum swollen film thickness obtained under the conditions described above according to the expression maximum swollen film thickness film thickness film thickness.

As polyester supports preferably used in the invention for example polyethylene terephthalite polyethylene 2 6 dinaphthalate polypropylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate and polytrimethylene terephthalate are exemplified and polyethylene terephthalate is especially preferred. Biaxially oriented and thermally fixed polyethylene terephthalate is especially preferred for its stability and toughness.

The thickness of a support is not especially restricted but is generally in the range of from 15 to 500 m and a support having a thickness of from 40 to 200 m is especially advantageous and preferred for easiness of handling and in the point of general purpose properties. A support may be transparent and may contain an anthraquinone dye silicon used as dye silicon dioxide alumina sol chromium salt zirconium salt or titanium oxide.

An antistatic layer having electric conductivity that is preferably used in the invention will be described below. Antistatic agents for the antistatic layer having electric conductivity are not especially restricted and both high molecular electrolyte and metallic oxide may be used but metallic oxide capable of obtaining antistatic property after development process is especially preferred. As metallic oxide for example at least one kind of electrically conductive metallic oxide selected from ZnO TiO SnO AlO SbO InO SiO MgO BaO MoOand VO or composite oxide of these metallic oxides and fine particles of metallic oxides of these metallic oxides further containing dissimilar atoms are exemplified. At least one kind of electrically conductive metallic oxide of ZnO TiO SnO AlO InO MgO and VO or composite oxide of these metallic oxides and metallic oxides of these metallic oxides further containing dissimilar atoms are more preferred. As the examples containing a small amount of dissimilar atoms doping Al or In to ZnO Nb or Ta to TiO Sn to InO and Sb Nb or a halogen element to SnOrespectively in an amount of from 0.01 to 30 mol preferably from 0.1 to 10 mol can be exemplified. When the addition amount of dissimilar element is less than 0.01 mol sufficient electric conductivity cannot be given to the oxide or composite oxide while when the amount exceeds 30 mmol the degree of blackening of the grains increases and the antistatic layer is blackened so that not suitable as a photographic material. Accordingly as the materials of electrically conductive metallic oxide in the invention metallic oxides or composite metallic oxides containing a small amount of dissimilar element are preferably used. Those containing oxygen detect in the crystal structure are also preferred. The fine particles of these metallic oxides or composite metallic oxides have a volume resistivity of preferably 10 cm or less and more preferably 10 cm or less. The primary particle size of metallic oxides or composite metallic oxides is preferably from 0.002 to 0.7 m and especially preferably from 0.005 to 0.3 m. The resistance of the obtained antistatic layer is preferably 10 or less more preferably 10 or less and still more preferably 10 or less.

In a protective layer preferably used in the invention are used diacetyl cellulose as a binder and polyacrylonitrile as a malting agent by which a silver halide photographic material having desired scratch resistance and capable of preventing falling off of the matting agent can be obtained. The coating amount of the matting agent is preferably from 1 to 50 mg m and when the amount is less than 1 mg m the above object cannot be obtained concerning scratch resistance. Further the matting agent may not be spherical but a particle size in the direction parallel to the support surface is preferably from 0.1 to 6 m. When the particle size is smaller than 0.1 m the effect as the matting agent is inefficacious and when it exceeds 6 m the matting agent falls off and transparency is lost.

The thickness of the protective layer is preferably from 0.2 to 1 m. When the thickness is 0.2 m or less scratch resistance is insufficient and when 1 m or more transparency is lost and the above objects cannot be achieved. The film thickness in the invention is not based on the convexities of the matting agent opened on the surface of a film but is based on the surface in parallel with a support.

The antistatic layer having electric conductivity and the protective layer preferably used in the invention are generally described in the next place. As the binder for use in the antistatic layer having electric conductivity hydrophilic binders described in Research Disclosure No. 17643 page 26 and ibid. No. 18716 page 651 may be used or well known thermoplastic resins thermosetting resins radiation curing resins and hydrophobic binders represented by reactive resins that are used in various films may be used but hydrophilic binders are preferred. As hydrophilic binders gelatin gelatin derivatives casein agar starch water soluble polymers such as polyvinyl alcohol cellulose ester and water soluble polyester are exemplified. Gelatin is most preferred and gelatin derivatives may be used in combination. Lime processed gelatin and acid processed gelatin are preferably used as gelatins.

The antistatic layer having electric conductivity for use in the invention may contain various kinds of hardening agents. As hardening agents e.g. aldehyde compounds such as formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde ketone compounds such as diacetyl and cyclopentanedione bis 2 chloroethylurea 2 hydroxy 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazine compounds having reactive halogen divinylsulfone 5 acetyl 1 3 diacryloyl hexahydro 1 3 5 triazine compounds having reactive olefin N hydroxylmethylphthalimide N methylol compound isocyanates aziridine compounds acid derivatives epoxy compounds and halogen carboxy aldehydes such as mucochloric acid can be exemplified.

Isocyanate can be used in a protective layer. As usable aromatic isocyanates e.g. toluenediisocyanate TDI and adducts of the isocyanate and active hydrogen compounds are exemplified and those having average molecular weight in the range of from 100 to 3 000 are preferably used. As aliphatic isocyanates hexamethylenediisocyanate HMDI and adducts of the isocyanate and active hydrogen compounds are exemplified. Of these adducts of the isocyanate and active hydrogen compounds those having molecular weight in the range of from 100 to 3 000 are preferably used. Of aliphatic isocyanates non alicyclic isocyanate and adducts of the isocyanate and active hydrogen compounds are preferred. As the amount of isocyanates to be used the amount of from 5 to 75 weight parts per 100 weight parts of the binder is preferred and from 10 to 40 weight parts is more preferred.

In the next place solvents and swelling agents for both of the antistatic layer having electric conductivity and the protective layer preferably used in the invention are described. The solvents and swelling agents are not especially limited so long as they can dissolve or swell the binder to be used. As those that can be used for many binders e.g. benzoic acid salicylic acid salicylic acid ester monochloroacetic acid dichloroacetic acid trichloroacetic acid trifluoroacetic acid 2 nitropropanol benzyl alcohol benzaldehyde acetonyl acetone acetophenone benzamide benzonitrile benzylamine methyl nicotinate phenol orthochlorophenol parachloro phenol cresol resorcin and other phenolic compounds are preferred. Of these compounds phenolic compounds are more preferred and phenol orthochlorophenol parachlorophenol and resorcin are especially preferred. These phenolic compounds are preferably used in the range of from 0.01 to 1 000 based on the binder of the layer to be added and more preferably in the range of from 0.1 to 100 . When the amount is 1 000 or more the sensitivity and conservation stability of the photographic material are adversely influenced. When the proportion is less than 0.01 sufficient adhesion required in the invention cannot be obtained. The solvents and swelling agents for use in the invention may be used for either the antistatic layer or the protective layer or for both layers.

Other components such as surfactants and sliding agents may be used in combination in both of the antistatic layer having electric conductivity and the protective layer preferably used in the invention according to necessity in the range not impairing the effect of the invention.

As the surfactants e.g. well known anionic surfactants cationic surfactants amphoteric surfactants and nonionic surfactants are exemplified.

As the sliding agents e.g. phosphoric acid ester of higher alcohols having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms and amino salts thereof palmitic acid stearic acid behenic acid and esters thereof and silicone compound are exemplified.

The coating solutions for the autistatic layer having electric conductivity and the protective layer are coated on the surface of a polyester support on the side on which the photosensitive layer is not provided according to well known coating methods and dried to form the layers.

As well known coating methods e.g. a dip coating method an air knife coating method a curtain coating method a wire bar coating method a gravure coating method and an extrusion coating method are exemplified.

Polyester supports preferably used in the invention are described in detail below. For the purpose of firmly adhering each layer to the support it is preferred for both surfaces of the polyester support to be subjected to surface activation treatment such as chemical treatment mechanical treatment corona discharge treatment flame treatment ultraviolet treatment high frequency treatment glow discharge treatment active plasma treatment laser treatment mixed acid treatment and ozone oxidation treatment in advance.

For example when a silver halide photographic material is manufactured by coating the coating solutions for forming silver halide photosensitive layers hereinafter sometimes referred to as coating solutions for silver halide photosensitive layers for ensuring an adhering property between the support and layers 1 a method of coating the coating solutions for silver halide photosensitive layers directly on the support after performing the surface activation treatment to obtain adhering strength and 2 a method of after once performing the surface activation treatment providing an undercoat layer and coating the coating solutions for silver halide photosensitive layers on the undercoat layer are exemplified. The method of 2 is more effective and widely carried out.

Undercoating method is described. The undercoat layer may be a single layer or may comprise two or more layers. As the binder for the undercoat layer copolymers using monomers selected from vinyl chloride vinylidene chloride butadiene methacrylic acid acrylic acid itaconic acid and maleic acid anhydride as starting materials and polyethyleneimine epoxy resins grafted gelatin nitrocellulose and gelatin are exemplified. As compounds for swelling the support resorcin and p chlorophenol are exemplified. As gelatin hardening agents for the undercoat layer chromium salt chrome alum aldehydes formaldehyde glutaraldehyde etc. isocyanates activated halogen compounds 2 4 dichloro 6 hydroxy S triazine epichlorohydrin resins and active vinylsulfone compounds can be exemplified. SiO2. TiO2 fine particles of inorganic materials or fine particles of polymethyl methacrylate copolymer 0.01 to 10 m may be contained in the coating solution of the undercoat layer as matting agent.

In the invention as the image forming method for recording on a silver halide photographic material according to an analog system there is known a contact printing method of performing exposure by closely adhering a silver halide photographic material on which a digital image is recorded to a silver halide photographic material on which a digital image is not recorded or an unexposed silver halide photographic material. As the apparatus for use for the contact printing method e.g. Model C Printer manufactured by BELL and HOWELL can be used.

The invention will be described in detail with reference to examples but the invention should not be construed as being restricted thereto.

An AgBrI monodispersed cubic emulsion is prepared according to the following method. In the first place the following solutions are prepared.

An aqueous solution containing 30 g of lime processed ossein gelatin 0.4 g of KBr and 1.3 liters of water

Solution A is put into a reaction vessel and stirred with maintaining the temperature at 68 C. Solution B 150 ml is added to the above solution over 5 minutes. Solution C is added to the solution by controlling the addition amount so as to maintain pBr in the reaction vessel during the time at 3.5. After termination of the addition the temperature of the solution in the reaction vessel is raised to 70 C. After that 540 ml of solution D is added to the reaction solution over 15 minutes. Solution E is added thereto by controlling the addition amount so as to maintain pBr in the reaction vessel during the time at 3.5. During the addition 0.005 g of thiourea dioxide 0.005 g of sodium benzenesulfonate and 0.0003 g of KIrClare added into the reaction vessel.

After completion of the addition the emulsion is desalted by flocculation. After termination of desalting process the solution is subjected to the following chemical sensitization and spectral sensitization. The emulsion after being desalted is maintained at 60 C. and sensitizing dyestuffs potassium thiocyanate chloroauric acid sodium thiosulfate N N dimethylselenourea 4 hydroxy 6 methyl 1 3 3a 7 tetra azaindene TAI Compound 1 Compound 2 and Compound 3 are added and the emulsion is optimally spectrally and chemically sensitized. The sensitizing dyestuffs shown in Table 1 below are added in optimal amounts by arbitrarily varying the addition ratio. The obtained grains are cubic grains having an average equivalent sphere diameter of 0.40 m and the coefficient of variation of equivalent sphere diameter of 11 .

Emulsions Em A2 A3 and A4 are prepared in the same manner as in the preparation of Em A except for properly changing the temperature of the solution in the reaction vessel the compositions and concentrations of Solutions A to E the addition rates of Solutions B to E pBr of the solution in the reaction vessel the addition amounts of thiourea dioxide sodium benzenesulfonate and KIrCl the kinds of the sensitizing dyestuffs after desalting and the condition of chemical sensitization. The emulsions are all reduction sensitized cubic grains and average equivalent sphere diameters of emulsions Em A2 A3 and A4 are respectively 0.33 m 0.28 m and 0.18 m.

Reduction sensitized Emulsions Em B D and G are prepared in the same manner as in the preparation of Em A except for properly changing the temperature of the solution in the reaction vessel the compositions and concentrations of Solutions A to E the addition rates of Solutions B to E pBr of the solution in the reaction vessel the addition amounts of thiourea dioxide sodium benzenesulfonate and KIrCl the kinds of the sensitizing dyestuffs after desalting and the condition of chemical sensitization.

An AgBrI monodispersed cubic emulsion is prepared according to the following method. In the first place the following solutions are prepared.

An aqueous solution containing 30 g of lime processed ossein gelatin 0.4 g of KBr and 1.5 liters of water

Solution A is put into the reaction vessel and stirred with maintaining the temperature at 55 C. Solution B 540 ml is added to the above solution over 10 minutes. Solution C is added to the solution by controlling the addition amount so as to maintain pBr in the reaction vessel during the time at 3.5. During the addition 0.007 g of thiourea dioxide 0.007 g of sodium benzenesulfonate and 0.0005 g of KIrClare added into the reaction vessel.

After completion of the addition the emulsion is desalted by flocculation. After termination of desalting process the solution is subjected to the following chemical sensitization and spectral sensitization. The emulsion after being desalted is maintained at 62 C. and sensitizing dyestuffs chloroauric acid sodium thiosulfate 4 hydroxy 6 methyl 1 3 3a 7 tetraazaindene TAI Compound 1 Compound 2 and Compound 3 are added and the emulsion is optimally spectrally and chemically sensitized. The addition amounts of the sensitizing dyestuffs are as shown in Table 1 below. The obtained grains are reduction sensitized cubic grains having an average equivalent sphere diameter of 0.09 m and the coefficient of variation of equivalent sphere diameter of 13 .

Reduction sensitized Emulsions Em E Em F Em H and Em I are prepared in the same manner as in the preparation of Emulsion Em C except for properly changing the temperature of the solution in the reaction vessel the compositions and concentrations of Solutions A to E the addition rates of Solutions B to E pBr of the solution in the reaction vessel the addition amounts of thiourea dioxide sodium benzene sulfonate and KIrCl the kinds of the sensitizing dyestuffs after desalting and the condition of chemical sensitization.

Emulsions Em D2 E2 and F2 are prepared in the same manner as in the preparation of Emulsions Em D Em E and Em F except for changing the sensitizing dyestuffs to Compounds ExS 21 and ExS 22 according to the invention.

A backing layer shown below is coated on a cellulose triacetate film support having an undercoat layer to prepare a support.

An undercoat layer is coated on the side of the support opposite to the side on which the backing layer is coated and each layer having the composition shown below is coated on the undercoat layer to manufacture a multilayer color photographic material sample 101.

The coating amounts of the silver halide and colloidal silver are shown as the coating amount of silver in the unit of g m and the amounts of the coupler additive and gelatin are shown in the unit of g m.

To the thus manufactured Sample 101 are added 1 2 benzisothiazolin 3 one 200 ppm on average to gelatin n butyl p hydroxybenzoate about 1 000 ppm the same as above and 2 phenoxyethanol about 10 000 ppm the same as above in addition to the above.

The slurry having the above composition is coarsely dispersed by stirring with a dissolver and then dispersed with agitator mill LMK 4 at a peripheral speed of 10 m sec discharge amount of 0.6 kg min and packing rate of 80 of zirconia beads having a diameter of 0.3 mm to obtain solid fine particle dispersion. The average equivalent sphere diameter of the dye fine particles is 0.15 m.

Sample 102 is manufactured in the same manner as in the manufacture of Sample 101 except for changing Em A in 13layer to Em A2 and the coating amount of silver from 1.05 to 1.03. Sample 103 is manufactured in the same manner except for changing Em A to Em A3 and the coating amount of silver to 1.47. Sample 104 is manufactured by changing Em A to Em A4 and the coating amount of silver to 1.55. The change of coating amount of silver is to compensate for sensitivity change due to alteration of emulsion.

Sample 111 is manufactured in the same manner as in Sample 101 by adding 0.06 g mof cyan dye D 11 in the invention to the 6layer corresponding to optical density of 0.20 and adding 0.03 g mof magenta dye D 8 according to the invention to the 10layer corresponding to optical density of 0.15 . Samples 102 to 104 are subjected to similar change to obtain Samples 112 to 114.

Sample 121 is manufactured in the same manner as in Sample 111 except for changing ExM 1 in the 7to 9layers to M 36 and Z 1 as shown below. Samples 112 to 114 are subjected to similar change to obtain Samples 122 to 124.

Sample 131 is manufactured in the same manner as in Sample 121 except for changing Em F Em E and Em D in 7to 9layers to Em F2 Em E2 and Em D respectively. Samples 122 to 124 are subjected to similar change to obtain Samples 132 to 134.

Sample 141 is manufactured in the same manner as in Sample 134 by adding compound 7 according to the invention to the 13layer. Sample 142 is manufactured by adding compound 37 according to the invention to the 13layer of Sample 134. The addition amount is 3.3 10mol mol Ag in both samples.

The above prepared samples are evaluated as follows. The results obtained are shown in Table A below.

A digital data of the number of pixels of 2 048 1 556 is exposed in a size of 0.8 0.6 inches with B G R lasers and then development processed. Blurring and color purity are evaluated according to the methods described above in the specification.

The image of a landscape having digital data of the number or pixels of 2 048 1 556 is exposed in a size of 0.8 0.6 inches with B G R lasers and the obtained negative images are screened and appreciated by twenty panelists. Evaluation is performed by relative evaluation with the evaluation value of the time using Sample 101 being 3 standard . Further the negative images are exposed on Fuji Color Positive Film F CP and development processed according to the method described in FUJI FILM PROCESSING MANUAL Motion Picture Films to obtain positive images. The obtained images were screened and evaluated in the same manner as above.

Sharpness is evaluated as to the negative images and sharpness and color saturation as to the positive images by the following seven grades and the values of evaluation by twenty panelists are averaged.

Gray sensitometry exposure is carried out with red green and blue lasers and the samples are preserved at 30 C. 70 for 1 hour and 20 hours respectively. After the above development process is performed magenta density is measured. The magenta density measured is the density of Dmin 0.2 and variation widths in 1 hour and 20 hours are measured.

From the results in Table A it is known that silver halide photographic materials excellent in sharpness and little in fluctuation of latent image conservation can be obtained in laser recording a digital image data by using silver halide emulsion grains having an average equivalent sphere diameter of 0.35 m or less fixed magenta dyes according to the invention and the couplers according to the invention. Further silver halide photographic materials showing more excellent sharpness can be obtained by further combining the dyestuffs and compounds according to the invention.

To record a digital image of high pixel number such as the number of pixels of 2 041 1 556 in a limited image plane size for example 0.8 0.6 inches 45.2 mm 20.3 mm has conventionally been a main cause of the degradation of image quality ascribable to the deterioration of sharpness in recording on silver halide photographic materials. However sharpness can be conspicuously improved by combining each technique as above. In addition change in tint that conventionally arises during recording on account of the degradation of latent images can also be restrained at the same time. As a result according to the invention it has been possible to provide images of high quality by making use of digital images of high pixel number that has been completely impossible.

The same experiment as in Example 1 is made by changing the cellulose triacetate film support to a polyethylene terephthalate support as described below to obtain the same results as in Example 1. Since the support has an antistatic layer remaining even after processing dusts hardly adhere to the photographic material at the time of printing and preferable in the point of practicability.

A polyethylene terephthalate film PET film having a thickness of 125 m is prepared by biaxial orientation 3.3 times both in length and width and thermal fixation at 240 C. for 10 minutes and then corona discharge treatment on both surfaces.

Both surfaces of the polyethylene terephthalate support having a thickness of 125 nm are subjected to ultraviolet UV irradiation treatment and an adhesive layer having the composition shown below is provided on the emulsion layer side. The coating amount is 10 ml m. Ultraviolet irradiation is performed according to the method disclosed in the example of JP B 45 3828.

The coating solution of a first backing layer of the prescription shown below is coated simultaneously with the undercoat layer.

A homogeneous solution is prepared by dissolving 230 weight parts of stannic chloride hydrate and 23 weight parts of antimony trichloride in 3 000 weight parts of ethanol. A 1N sodium hydroxide aqueous solution is dropped to the above solution until the solution reaches pH of 3 to thereby obtain co precipitate of colloidal stannic oxide and antimony oxide. The obtained co precipitate is allowed to stand at 50 C. for 24 hours to obtain red brownish colloidal precipitate. The red brownish colloidal precipitate is separated by centrifugation. For removing excessive ions water is added to the precipitate to wash by centrifugation. This operation is repeated three times to remove excessive ions. Colloidal precipitate 200 weight parts from which excessive ions are removed is re dispersed in 1 500 weight parts of water sprayed to a kiln heated at 500 C. to obtain bluish fine particles of the composite of stannic oxide and antimony oxide having an average particle size or 0.005 m. The resistivity of the fine particle powder is 25 cm. A mixed solution comprising 40 weight parts of the fine particle powder and 60 weight parts of water having pH of 7.0 is prepared crudely dispersed with a stirrer and then dispersed with a horizontal sand mill DYNO MILL manufactured by Willy A. Backfen AG until the residence time of 30 minutes to obtain dispersion comprising secondary agglomerates of partial agglomeration of primary particles having a particle size of 0.05 m.

A solution of the prescription shown below is coated in a dry film thickness of 0.2 m and dried at 110 C. for 30 seconds.

A solution having the prescription shown below is coated in a dry film thickness of 0.42 m and dried at 70 C.

For the problem of deterioration of images recorded on an intermediate film a silver halide photographic material analog images using negative films for photographing alone can be conventionally used as original images. However according to the invention it has become possible to use digital images as original images. That is even when digital images are used as original images images recorded on an intermediate film a silver halide photographic material according to the invention are free from occurrence of blur deterioration of sharpness and degradation of color reproduction and conservation stability of latent images can be secured. Further according to the invention it becomes possible to manufacture movies positively getting digital image data which contributes to further development of cinema industry.

The entire disclosure of each and every foreign patent application from which the benefit of foreign priority has been claimed in the present application is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.

