---

title: Loadable and modular conditional access application
abstract: A CAS device receives streaming media content encrypted utilizing a CAS, decrypts the received streaming media content utilizing a CAS module associated with the CAS, and transmits the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device. The CAS device may be operable to receive and store an additional CAS module associated with an additional CAS. The CAS device may also be operable to receive unencrypted streaming media content, encrypt the streaming media content utilizing a CAS module, and transmit the encrypted streaming media content. In another embodiment, the CAS device receives streaming media content encrypted utilizing a first CAS, decrypts the received streaming media content utilizing a first CAS module, transmits the unencrypted streaming media content from the first CAS module to a second CAS module, encrypts the unencrypted streaming media content utilizing the second CAS module, and transmits the encrypted streaming media content to a rendering device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268735&OS=09268735&RS=09268735
owner: Oracle America, Inc.
number: 09268735
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
This invention relates generally to conditional access systems and more specifically to methods and apparatus for a loadable and modular conditional access application.

Streaming media content is media content that is constantly received by and normally rendered to an end user while being delivered by a streaming media content provider. Providers of streaming media content such as the MPEG moving picture experts group streams in television including but not limited to direct broadcast satellite television or IPTV Internet protocol television typically protect the streaming media content to prevent copying or storing of the content and distribution of that content over channels that are not under the control of the providers. Conditional Access Systems CAS may be utilized to protect streaming media content.

Typically the streaming media content is encrypted. In some streaming media content distribution systems which encrypt content utilizing a CAS encrypted keys that may be utilized to decrypt the streaming media content referred to as entitlement control messages ECM are distributed in band with the streaming media content. In order to utilize the ECM to decrypt the streaming media content the ECM are typically decrypted utilizing an EMM entitlement management message key. EMM keys may be distributed out of band of the streaming media content and or in band with the streaming media content. ECM keys are typically set to expire in a much shorter time period than EMM keys.

In an embodiment a CAS Conditional Access System device may receive streaming media content that has been encrypted utilizing a CAS. The streaming media content may include information identifying the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content. The CAS device may determine the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content by analyzing the information included in the streaming media content. The CAS device may analyze the information included in the streaming media content while parsing the streaming media content. The CAS device may load a CAS module. The CAS module may comprise a Java Card including but not limited to Java Card 3.0 application. Java Card may be implemented utilizing an applet model a servlet model an extended applet model or other Java Card model and the Java Card application may comprise an applet a servlet extended applet or other Java Card platform application. The CAS module may be associated with the CAS. The CAS module may decrypt the received streaming media content. The CAS device may then transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device. The CAS device may also be operable to receive unencrypted streaming media content load a CAS module encrypt the streaming media content associated with the CAS module and transmit the encrypted streaming media content. The CAS device may be further operable to load a CAS module encrypt and or decrypt media content stored on the CAS device and stream the media content to the rendering device.

The CAS device may include a processing unit a storage medium operably coupled to the processing unit a first interface operably coupled to the processing unit and a second interface operably coupled to the processing unit. The storage medium may be operable to store one or more CAS modules associated with one or more CAS. The first interface may be operable to receive streaming media content that has been encrypted utilizing a CAS. The processing unit may be operable to load a CAS module associated with a CAS that has been utilized to encrypt streaming media content received utilizing the first interface. The processing unit may be operable to utilize the CAS module to decrypt the streaming media content and transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device via the second interface.

The CAS device may also be operable to receive an additional CAS module associated with an additional CAS via the first interface. The processing unit may be operable to store the additional CAS module associated with the additional CAS in the storage medium.

In an alternative embodiment the CAS device may comprise a pluggable component operable to interface with the rendering device when the pluggable component is plugged into the rendering device.

In another alternative embodiment the CAS device may receive streaming media content that has been encrypted utilizing a first CAS. The streaming media content may include information identifying the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content. The CAS device may determine the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content by analyzing the information included in the streaming media content. The CAS device may analyze the information included in the streaming media content while parsing the streaming media content. The CAS device may load a first CAS module. The first CAS module may be associated with the first CAS. The first CAS module may decrypt the received streaming media content. The CAS device may load a second CAS module. The CAS device may load the second CAS module base on information included in the streaming media content. The second CAS module may be associated with a second CAS. The CAS device may transmit the unencrypted streaming media content from the first CAS module to the second CAS module. Optionally the CAS device may also transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device. The second CAS module may encrypt the unencrypted streaming media content utilizing the second CAS. The CAS device may then transmit the encrypted streaming media content to a rendering device.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not necessarily restrictive of the present disclosure. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate subject matter of the disclosure. Together the descriptions and the drawings serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

In order to securely handle cryptographic keys some streaming media content distribution systems which encrypt content utilizing a CAS conditional access system may utilize a CAS device including but not limited to smart cards . The CAS device may be coupled to a rendering device. A rendering device may comprise any device for rendering the streaming media content including but not limited to a set top box and or a set top unit a device that connects to a television and an external source of signal turning the signal into content which is then displayed on the television screen a digital computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a television a home theater system a digital media receiver a media extender a HDD hard disk drive media player a cable converter box and or a digital video recorder. EMM entitlement management message keys may be stored and processed within the CAS device. The EMM keys may be utilized within the CAS device to decrypt ECM entitlement control message keys. The decrypted ECM keys may be exported to the rendering device where they may be utilized for a short period of time to decrypt received streaming media content.

CAS devices however do not conventionally handle the streaming media content itself and or decrypt the streaming media content within the CAS device and transmit the decrypted streaming media content to the rendering device. As such CAS applications are conventionally implemented partially in a CAS device and partially in a rendering device. Thus rendering devices must typically be equipped with built in security capabilities and must typically be able to process output from a CAS device. However CAS are typically closed systems typically proprietary and not publicly disclosed. Most CAS are not interoperable and CAS devices and rendering devices equipped for content encrypted with one CAS may be inoperable with encrypted with another CAS. Thus conventional CAS devices and rendering devices may be unable to receive streaming media content from more multiple providers that utilize different CAS to encrypt content or switch from a first provider that utilizes one CAS to encrypt content to another provider that utilizes another CAS to encrypt content.

By way of example a rendering device may receive streaming media content provided by a streaming media content server across the Internet. The streaming media content may have been encrypted utilizing the CAS. The rendering device may transmit the encrypted streaming media content to a CAS device which may be coupled to the rendering device. The CAS device may parse the encrypted streaming media content and determine based on information included in the encrypted streaming media content that the encrypted streaming media content has been encrypted utilizing the CAS. The CAS device may load a CAS module associated with the CAS decrypt the streaming media content utilizing the CAS module and transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to the rendering device. The rendering device may then render the unencrypted streaming media content. The rendering device may render the unencrypted streaming media content by displaying video of the streaming media content such as on a television cathode ray tube display liquid crystal display high definition television flat screen television or other display device and or by playing audio from the streaming media content such as through one or more speakers headsets and or earphones .

The CAS module may comprise a Java Card application including but not limited to Java Card 3.0 developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. and detailed at the web site java.sun.com javacard 3.0 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Java Card may be implemented utilizing an applet model a servlet model an extended applet model or other Java Card model and the Java Card application may comprise an applet a servlet an extended applet or other Java Card platform application. Java card is a technology that allows small Java based applications applets to run securely on smart cards and or similar small memory foot print devices. Java card is the lightest version of Java and is targeted for embedded devices. Java Card 3.0 along with advances in smart card technology may for the first time provide the CAS device with the processing ability to handle the streaming media content itself.

The CAS may include at least one of an analog conditional access system including but not limited to Eurocrypt conditional access system Nagravision conditional access system Videocypher conditional access system and or Videocrypt conditional access system and or a digital conditional access system including but not limited to Nagravision Cardmagedon conditional access system Nagravision Aladin conditional access system Biss conditional access system Conax conditional access system Cryptoworks conditional access system Irdeto conditional access system Keyfly conditional access system Mediaguard conditional access system Videoguard conditional access system Powervu conditional access system Ras conditional access system Digicipher CAS and Viaccess conditional access system. The CAS may utilize RAS encryption algorithm data encryption standard DES encryption algorithm 3 DES encryption algorithm blowfish encryption algorithm international data encryption algorithm IDEA software optimized encryption algorithm SEAL advanced encryption standard AES encryption algorithm and RC4 encryption algorithm.

The CAS device may also be operable to receive unencrypted streaming media content load a CAS module encrypt the streaming media content associated with the CAS module and transmit the encrypted streaming media content. By way of example a user of a rendering device may utilize a CAS device coupled to the rendering device to protect their own streaming media content prior to distribution or storage. The CAS device may be further operable to load a CAS module encrypt and or decrypt media content stored on the CAS device and stream the media content to the rendering device .

The first interface may be operable to receive streaming media content that has been encrypted utilizing a CAS. The streaming media content may include information identifying the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content. The processing unit may determine the CAS that has been utilized to encrypt the streaming media content by analyzing the information included in the streaming media content. The processing unit may analyze the information included in the streaming media content while parsing the streaming media content. The processing unit may be operable to load a CAS module associated with a CAS that has been utilized to encrypt streaming media content received utilizing the first interface . The processing unit also may be operable to utilize the CAS module to decrypt the streaming media content and transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device via the second interface .

The CAS device may also receive an additional CAS module associated with an additional CAS via the first interface . Like with the one or more CAS modules referred to above the processing unit may store the additional CAS module in the storage medium .

By way of example the CAS device may comprise a pluggable component that is operable to interface with the rendering device via a USB universal serial bus and or a USB 2.0 interface. In such a case the CAS device may interface with the rendering device when the CAS device is plugged into a USB and or USB 2.0 port of the rendering device .

By way of another example the CAS device may comprise a contact smart card that is operable to interface with the rendering device via a card acceptance device e.g. a smart card reader . Contact smart cards may have a contact area. When inserted into a card acceptance device the contact area may make contact with electrical connectors that can read information from the chip and write information back. In such as case the CAS device may interface with the rendering device when the CAS device is plugged into a card acceptance device of the rendering device . Alternatively the CAS device may comprise a separate integrated circuit device incorporated into the rendering device .

The first CAS module may then decrypt the received streaming media content. The CAS device may load a second CAS module . The CAS device may load the second CAS module based on information included in the received streaming media content. The second CAS module may include a Java Card including but not limited to Java Card 3.0 application. Java Card may be implemented utilizing an applet model a servlet model an extended applet model or other Java Card model and the Java Card application may comprise an applet a servlet an extended applet or other Java Card platform application. The second CAS module may be associated with a second CAS i.e. the second CAS module is able to encrypt and or decrypt streaming media content utilizing the second CAS . The CAS device may transmit the unencrypted streaming media content from the first CAS module to the second CAS module . The first CAS module and or the second CAS module may include one or more APIs application programming interfaces for transmitting information between the modules. Optionally the CAS device may also transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to a rendering device . The transmission between the first CAS module and the second CAS module may authenticate the first CAS module and or the second CAS module . As the transmission between the first CAS module and the second CAS module does not leave the CAS device the transmission may be secure.

Further the second CAS module may encrypt the unencrypted streaming media content utilizing the second CAS. For example the second CAS module may be associated with the Nagravision CAS i.e. the CAS module is able to encrypt and or decrypt streaming media content utilizing the Nagravision CAS . The second CAS module may then encrypt the unencrypted streaming media content utilizing the Nagravision CAS. The CAS device may then transmit the encrypted streaming media content to a rendering device . The rendering device may be configured to utilize and or store streaming media content encrypted with the Nagravision CAS. If the rendering device is configured to render streaming media content encrypted with the Nagravision CAS utilizing the CAS device to convert received streaming media content encrypted utilizing the Videoguard CAS to streaming media content encrypted with the Nagravision CAS enables the rendering device to render the streaming media content without requiring that the streaming media content be unencrypted outside of the CAS device .

By way of another example a rendering device which is coupled to the CAS device may receive streaming media content that has been encrypted utilizing the Digicipher CAS. The Digicipher encrypted streaming media content may include an MPEG 2 stream which may include encrypted content and encrypted keys Ks ECMs . Keys Ka EMMs may have been received separately in a secure container compliant with the Digicipher CAS or may have been included in the encrypted streaming media content. The rendering device may transmit the streaming media content to the CAS device . The CAS device may parse the streaming media content and determine based on information included in the streaming media content that the streaming media content was encrypted utilizing the Digicipher CAS. The CAS device may load a first CAS module wherein the first CAS module is associated with the Digicipher CAS. The first CAS module may decrypt the received streaming media content. The CAS device may load a second CAS module associated with Project DReaM a digital rights management system . The CAS device may load the second CAS module based on information included in the streaming media content. The CAS device may transmit the unencrypted streaming media content from the first CAS module to the second CAS module . Optionally the CAS device may also transmit the unencrypted streaming media content to the rendering device which may then render the MPEG 2 content. The second CAS module may encrypt the unencrypted streaming media content utilizing Project DReaM . The encrypted streaming media content may include an MPEG 2 stream which may include encrypted content and encrypted keys Ks ECMs . Keys Ka EMMs may be contained separately in a secure container compliant with Project DReaM or may be included in the encrypted streaming media content. The CAS device may then transmit the DReaM encrypted streaming media content to a rendering device . The rendering device may be configured to utilize and or store streaming media content encrypted with Project DReaM . If the rendering device is configured to store streaming media content encrypted with Project DReaM utilizing the CAS device to convert received streaming media content encrypted utilizing the Digicipher CAS to streaming media content encrypted with Project DReaM enables the rendering device to store the streaming media content in a protected format without requiring that the streaming media content be unprotected outside of the CAS device .

The present disclosure may provide a CAS device that is operable to handle streaming media content including but not limited to encryption and decryption of the streaming media content within the CAS device. As such rendering devices operable to interface with the CAS device may not require security capabilities. The loadable and or modular CAS applications included in and or addable to the disclosed CAS device may provide interoperability between different CAS enabling switching between various streaming media content providers and or utilization of multiple streaming media content providers. The disclosed CAS device also may enable encryption of unencrypted streaming media content conversion between different CAS and or storage of received streaming media content in a secured form.

The description above includes example systems methods techniques instruction sequences and or computer program products that embody techniques of the present disclosure. However it is understood that the described disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. Reference will now be made in detail to the subject matter disclosed which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

In the present disclosure the methods disclosed may be implemented as sets of instructions or software readable by a device. Further it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed are examples of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the method can be rearranged while remaining within the disclosed subject matter. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not necessarily meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The described disclosure may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readably by a machine e.g. a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It is believed that the present disclosure and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components without departing from the disclosed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form described is merely explanatory and it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to various embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to them. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. More generally embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure have been described in the context or particular embodiments. Functionality may be separated or combined in blocks differently in various embodiments of the disclosure or described with different terminology. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the disclosure as defined in the claims that follow.

