---

title: Two-axis direct fluid shear stress sensor
abstract: A micro sized multi-axis semiconductor skin friction/wall shear stress induced by fluid flow. The sensor design includes a shear/strain transduction gimble connected to a force collecting plate located at the flow boundary surface. The shear force collecting plate is interconnected by an arm to offset the tortional hinges from the fluid flow. The arm is connected to the shear force collecting plate through dual axis torsional hinges with piezoresistive torsional strain gauges. These gauges are disposed on the tortional hinges and provide a voltage output indicative of applied shear stress acting on the force collection plate proximate the flow boundary surface. Offsetting the torsional hinges creates a force concentration and resolution structure that enables the generation of a large stress on the strain gauge from small shear stress, or small displacement of the collecting plate. The design also isolates the torsional sensors from exposure to the fluid flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07921731&OS=07921731&RS=07921731
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07921731
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
This application is based upon a prior filed provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 991 975 filed Dec. 3 2007 entitled A TWO AXIS DIRECT FLUID SHEAR STRESS SENSOR SUITED FOR AERODYNAMIC APPLICATIONS the entire subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments of the invention described herein were made by employees of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to shear stress sensors and more particularly to a micro sized multi axis semiconductor skin friction wall shear stress sensor devices.

A great number of techniques for the measurement of wall shear stress exist within the prior art ranging from inferring the skin friction from measuring the boundary layer profile or using some correlation or analogy to the direct measurement of the force on a surface. Although all of these techniques can be shown to accommodate some flow regimes indirect methods have not been shown to be reliable for complex flows high speed flows or flows associated with combustion and or impinging shocks. Alternatively direct measurements do not require any foreknowledge of the flow or its properties and can provide accurate results all the regimes mentioned above.

Direct measurements refers to techniques that separate a small element referred to as a floating head from the wall and measures the tangential force that the flow imparts on it. Direct measurements are the most believable of all the techniques. The sensor is measuring the actual shear on the surface without respect to the fluid the state of the boundary layer or Reynolds Number. Since the floating head is level with the wall the measurement is non intrusive to the flow. The forces are very small sometimes requiring large floating heads and expensive instrumentation to obtain accurate results. A variety of such direct shear stress sensors are also known in the art. One type of direct shear stress sensor is a floating element sensor such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 896 098 incorporated herein by reference. Other flow sensors include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 966 231 6 408 698 5 199 209 the entire contents of which are each incorporated herein by reference. These floating sensors are exposed to the fluid flow and thus are not suitable for extreme or hostile conditions and often require complex optical or capacitive transduction techniques. Another floating element shear stress sensor employed differential optical shutter based floating element sensors for turbulence measurements such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 426 796 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. However the performance of this sensor suffers from front side electrical contacts that interfere with fluid flow past the sensor and or from remote mounting of the incident light source.

The measurement of shear stress is of importance in a large number of situations involving fluid flow including aerodynamic hydrodynamics turbo machinery and polymer processing among several others. Quantifying shear stress is important in order to understand and control the flow and in particular to control and suppress the development of turbulence in it. The magnitude of the shear stress and needed resolution in these various situations can span many orders from milliPascals to kiloPascal or more. The frequency response and spatial resolution needed also varies considerably. Both direct and indirect principles for sensing this shear force and sensors employing these exist with the direct methods being favored however no commercial devices are readily available. The demands of sensors for aerodynamic application are in particular very challenging to meet as the forces involved are small few Pascal to few hundred Pascal and the resolution needed is high few milliPascal with high spatial resolution few hundred microns or less and frequency response from steady state to tens of kilohertz. There is also the need for directional information and the ability to array large numbers of such sensors to collect this information over the area of interest. The present invention is a micro sensor that is ideally suited for such this application and can fabricated using MEMS Micro Electro Mechanical Systems fabrication techniques. It is however not limited this application and can find use in the above mentioned or in other situations by a suitable choice of design parameters.

The present invention is directed to a multi axis direct shear stress sensor. The sensor includes a shear force collecting plate mounted substantially flush and coplanar with an adjacent associated wall exposed to fluid flow. A gimbal structure including an arm connects the shear force collecting plate to a multi axis torsional sensor to facilitate pivotal movement of the plate relative to the sensor in response to fluid flow across the collecting plate. Pivotal movement of the shear force collecting plate causes deformation of said torsional sensor thereby inducing said torsional strain therein. The strain in the torsional sensor is directly indicative of the shear stress on the collecting plate.

A preferred embodiment of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The sensor is fabricated by bonding together two partially structured wafers. The first is processed to first define the piezoresistive structures and metallic leads for these using standard semiconductor ion implantation deposition lithography and etch techniques. The lever structure on the back side of this wafer is defined using photolithography and a deep silicon reactive ion etch using the BOSCH process that stops on the buried oxide layer if present or is timed to desired depth. The second wafer is similarly processed to define plate or lever lever optional depending on process and design on its backside. The two wafers are aligned and bonded at a modest temperature and pressure compatible with the metals and other materials used using an intermediary layer such as a polymer eg. BCB polyimide negative photoresist metal. Gold gold Si gold eutectic or glass. Additional lithography and silicon reactive ion etching steps define the plate and the hinge and gimbal on either side of the bonded wafers and completes the sensor. Several of these sensors of varying sensitivity and spatial resolution have been fabricated and characterized. Furthermore it may be possible together with the teaching of the present invention to glean additional torsional hinge arrangements from the teachings of micro machined torsional sensors employed in accelerometers such as those disclose in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 648 618 5 220 835 4 598 585 4 739 381 4 699 006 5 203 208 5 895 866 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The sensor assembly of the present invention facilitates direct detection of wall shear stress independent of flow conditions with the transduction elements piezoactive resistors strain gauges being isolated from the fluid environment to provide the ability for applications in high low temperature environments. The resultant assembly yields a substantially non intrusive sensor with the active parts isolated from the environment thus enabling application in aircraft wings watercraft surfaces etc. The assembly further enables active flow control and detecting the onset of turbulence which can be used to control actuators to modify the flow drag reduction separation delay or change the entire flow geometry. Conventional sensor assemblies are unable to meet these requirements.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

