---

title: Superparamagnetic platelets field sensing devices
abstract: A ferromagnetic thin-film based magnetic field sensor having an electrically insulative intermediate layer with two major surfaces on opposite sides thereof with an initial film of an anisotropic ferromagnetic material on one of those intermediate layer major surfaces and thin-film platelets on the remaining one of the intermediate layer major surfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07660081&OS=07660081&RS=07660081
owner: NVE Corporation
number: 07660081
owner_city: Eden Prairie
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080128
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 359 743 filed Feb. 22 2006 for SUPERPARAMAGNETIC FIELD SENSING DEVICES which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 10 394 799 filed Mar. 21 2003 for SUPERPARAMAGNETIC DEVICES which claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 367 761 filed Mar. 26 2002 for SUPERPARAMAGNETIC MATERIALS IN MAGNETIC DEVICES as does this application.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number DTRA01 99 C 0110 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to ferromagnetic thin film structures and more particularly to ferromagnetic thin film structures exhibiting relatively large magnetoresistive characteristics.

Many kinds of electronic systems make use of magnetic material based devices. Digital memories are used extensively in digital systems of many kinds including computers and computer systems components and digital signal processing systems. Such memories can be advantageously based on the storage of digital bits as alternative states of magnetization in magnetic materials in each memory cell particularly in cells using thin film magnetic materials resulting in memories which use less electrical power and do not lose information upon removals of such electrical power.

Magnetometers and other magnetic sensing devices are also used extensively in many kinds of systems including magnetic disk memories and magnetic tape storage systems of various kinds. Such devices provide output signals representing the magnetic fields sensed thereby in a variety of situations.

Such memory cells and sensors can often be advantageously fabricated using ferromagnetic thin film materials and are often based on magnetoresistive sensing of magnetic states or magnetic conditions therein. Such devices may be provided on a surface of a monolithic integrated circuit to provide convenient electrical interconnections between the device and the operating circuitry therefor.

In the recent past reducing the thicknesses of the ferromagnetic thin films and the intermediate layers in extended sandwich structures in which the two major surfaces of the intermediate layer each have thereon an anisotropic ferromagnetic thin film layer including those having additional alternating ones of such films and layers i.e. superlattices have been shown to lead to a giant magnetoresistive effect being present. This effect yields a magnetoresistive response which can be in the range of and order of magnitude or more greater than that due to the well known anisotropic magnetoresistive response.

In the ordinary anisotropic magnetoresistive response varying differences between the direction of the magnetization vector in the ferromagnetic film and the direction of the sensing current passed through the film lead to varying differences in the effective electrical resistance in the direction of the current. The maximum electrical resistance occurs when the magnetization vector in the film and the current direction are parallel to one another or antiparallel while the minimum resistance occurs when they are perpendicular to one another. The total electrical resistance in such a magnetoresistive ferromagnetic film can be shown to be given by a constant value representing the minimum resistance plus an additional value depending on the angle between the current direction in the film and the magnetization vector therein. This additional resistance follows a square of the cosine of that angle.

As a result operating external magnetic fields can be used to vary the angle of the magnetization vector in such a film portion with respect to the easy axis of that film portion. Such an easy axis comes about because of an anisotropy present in the film typically resulting from depositing that film in the presence of a fabrication external magnetic field oriented in the plane of the film along the direction desired for the easy axis in the resulting film or annealing such a film afterward in the presence of such a field. During subsequent operation of the device with the resulting film such operating external magnetic fields can vary the angle to such an extent as to cause switching of the film magnetization vector between two stable states which occur as magnetizations oriented in opposite directions along that easy axis. The state of the magnetization vector in such a film portion can be measured or sensed by the change in resistance encountered by current directed through this film portion. This arrangement has provided the basis for a ferromagnetic magnetoresistive anisotropic thin film to serve as part of a memory cell.

In contrast to this arrangement the resistance in the plane of a ferromagnetic thin film is isotropic with respect to the giant magnetoresistive effect rather than depending on the direction of a sensing current therethrough as for the anisotropic magnetoresistive effect. The giant magnetoresistive effect has a magnetization dependent component of resistance that varies as the cosine of the angle between magnetizations in the two ferromagnetic thin films on either side of an intermediate layer. In the giant magnetoresistive effect the electrical resistance through the sandwich or superlattice is lower if the magnetizations in the two separated ferromagnetic thin films are parallel than it is if these magnetizations are antiparallel i.e. directed in opposing directions. Further the also present anisotropic magnetoresistive effect in very thin films is considerably reduced from the bulk values therefor in thicker films due to surface scattering whereas very thin films are a fundamental requirement to obtain a significant giant magnetoresistive effect.

In addition as indicated the giant magnetoresistive effect can be increased by adding further alternate intermediate and ferromagnetic thin film layers to extend the sandwich or superlattice structure. The giant magnetoresistive effect is sometimes called the spin valve effect in view of the explanation that a larger fraction of conduction electrons are allowed to move more freely from one ferromagnetic thin film layer to another if the magnetizations in these layers are parallel than if they are antiparallel with the result that the magnetization states of the layers act as sort of a valve.

These magnetizations results often come about because of magnetic exchange coupling between the ferromagnetic thin films separated by the intermediate layers these intermediate layers typically formed from a nonferromagnetic transition metal as an electrical conductor. The effect of the exchange coupling between the ferromagnetic thin film layers is determined to a substantial degree by the thickness of such an intermediate layer therebetween. The effect of the coupling between the separated ferromagnetic thin film layers has been found to oscillate as a function of this separation thickness between these layers in being ferromagnetic coupling such that the magnetizations of the separated layers are parallel to one another and antiferromagnetic coupling such that the magnetizations of the separated layers are opposed to one another or antiparallel to one another . Thus for some separation thicknesses the layer coupling can be of zero value between extremes of such oscillations.

Exhibiting the giant magnetoresistive effect in a superlattice structure or in an abbreviated superlattice structure formed by a three layer sandwich structure requires that there be arrangements in connection therewith that permit the establishment alternatively of both parallel and antiparallel orientations of the magnetizations in the alternate ferromagnetic thin film layers therein. One such arrangement is to have the separated ferromagnetic thin films in the multilayer structure be antiferromagnetically coupled but to a sufficiently small degree so that the coupling field can be overcome by an external magnetic field.

Another arrangement is to form the ferromagnetic thin film layers with alternating high and low coercivity materials so that the magnetization of the low coercivity material layers can be reversed without reversing the magnetizations of the others. A further alternative arrangement is to provide soft ferromagnetic thin films and exchange couple every other one of them with an adjacent magnetically hard layer forming a ferromagnetic thin film double layer so that the ferromagnetic double layer will be relatively unaffected by externally applied magnetic fields even though the magnetizations of the other ferromagnetic thin film layers will be subject to being controlled by such an external field.

One further alternative arrangement related to the first is to provide such a multilayer structure that is however etched into strips such that demagnetizing effects and currents in such a strip can be used to orient the magnetizations antiparallel and so that externally applied magnetic fields can orient the magnetizations parallel. Thus parallel and antiparallel magnetizations can be established in the ferromagnetic thin films of the structure as desired in a particular use. Such a structure must be fabricated so that any ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic coupling between separated ferromagnetic films is not too strong so as to prevent such establishments of film magnetizations using practical interconnection arrangements.

A magnetic field sensor suited for fabrication with dimensions of a few microns or less can be fabricated that provides a suitable response to the presence of very small external magnetic fields and low power dissipation by substituting an electrical insulator for a conductor in the nonmagnetic intermediate layer. This sensor can be fabricated using ferromagnetic thin film materials of similar or different kinds in each of the outer magnetic films provided in a sandwich structure on either side of an intermediate nonmagnetic layer which ferromagnetic films may be composite films but this insulating intermediate nonmagnetic layer permits electrical current to effectively pass therethrough based primarily on a quantum electrodynamic effect resulting in a tunneling current.

This tunneling current has a magnitude dependence on the angle between the magnetization vectors in each of the ferromagnetic layers on either side of the intermediate layer due to the transmission barrier provided by this intermediate layer depending on the degree of matching of the spin polarizations of the electrons tunneling therethrough with the spin polarizations of the conduction electrons in the ferromagnetic layers the latter being set by the layer magnetization directions to provide a magnetic valve effect . Such an effect results in an effective resistances or conductance characterizing this intermediate layer with respect to the tunneling current therethrough. The maximum fractional change in effective resistance is a function of the magnetic polarization of the conduction electrons given by 2 1 where Pand Pare the conduction electron spin polarizations of the two ferromagnetic layers. These polarizations appear dependent on the ratio of spin up to spin down electrons in the 3D shell of the transition elements used in the ferromagnetic thin film s i.e. the spin polarization P of the conduction electrons. The fraction f of 3D electrons which are spin up have typical values of 0.75 for iron 0.64 for cobalt and 0.56 for nickel. Conduction electrons in metals are normally S shell electrons which theoretically would be equally divided between spin up and spin down electrons. However because of band splitting the conduction electrons in the magnetic layers are assumed to have a fraction of spin up electrons like that of the electrons in the 3D shell. The spin polarization is then determined from P 2f 1.

In addition shape anisotropy is often used in such a sensor to provide different coercivities in the two ferromagnetic layers and by forming one of the ferromagnetic layers to be thicker than the other. Such devices may be provided on a surface of a monolithic integrated circuit to thereby allow providing convenient electrical connections between each such sensor device and the operating circuitry therefor.

A sandwich structure for such a spin dependent tunneling sensor based on having an intermediate thin layer of a nonmagnetic dielectric separating material with two major surfaces on each of which an anisotropic ferromagnetic thin film is positioned exhibits the magnetic valve effect if the materials for the ferromagnetic thin films and the intermediate layers are properly selected and have sufficiently small thicknesses. The resulting magnetic valve effect can yield a response which can be several times in magnitude greater than that due to the giant magnetoresistive effect in a similar sized sensor structure.

The current voltage characteristics of such sandwich structure sensors will exhibit a relatively linear change in the quantum electrodynamic effect tunneling current therethrough from one ferromagnetic layer through the barrier to the other with respect to the voltage provided across the sensor i.e. across the barrier layer between these ferromagnetic layers for relatively lower value voltages but the current magnitude increases more than linearly for higher values of voltage across the sensor. As the voltage across the sensor increases the fractional change in the tunneling current through the sensor for the ferromagnetic layers having magnetizations changing from parallel to one another to antiparallel decreases to being only half as great with several hundred millivolts across the sensor as occurs in the situation with a hundred or less millivolts across the sensor so that this fractional change with sensor voltage will range from a few percent to 20 or more. The fractional change in the resistance of the sensor for the ferromagnetic layers having magnetizations changing from parallel to one another to antiparallel increases to about one and one half the room temperature values when the sensor is cooled to 77 K. but the tunneling current through the sensor increases by only about 10 to 20 indicating that the effective resistivity of the sensor is relatively insensitive to temperature around 500 to 1000 ppm C. .

The effective resistivity of such a spin dependent tunneling sensor is set by the amount of tunneling current through the cell permitted by the barrier layer for the voltage across the sensor. The high sensitivity of the tunneling current to the thickness of the barrier layer leads to a wide range of sensor resistivities which have been observed to be from 60.0 mto 10 000 M m. On the other hand the barrier layer appears to permit relatively little magnetic coupling between the ferromagnetic layers thereacross with the coupling fields typically being only a few Oe.

The barrier material used for such sensing devices has typically been aluminum oxide AlOand other such oxides but other dielectric materials have been used. A typical construction therefor has had two rectangular ferromagnetic thin film strips with the barrier layer therebetween such that the long axis of the bottom strip supported directly on an electrically insulating substrate is at some angle with respect to that of the upper strip supported thereon through the barrier layer. This arrangement leaves the crossover area where these ferromagnetic strips overlap having the shape of a parallelograms defining the portion of the barrier layer through which there is effective current tunneling between the strips.

These devices are fabricated using semiconductor based integrated circuit chip fabrication techniques having a junction structure in a sensor cell based on a nonmagnetic intermediate separating material with two major surfaces on one of which is a base anisotropic ferromagnetic thin film which is also on or is a base electrode and on the other of which there is at least one or possibly a plurality of separate anisotropic ferromagnetic thin films but typically of differing effective coercivity with respect to the base film. The nonmagnetic intermediate separating material is an insulator for a spin dependent tunneling device and is typically AlO. Ones of the plurality of similar structures formed of separated ferromagnetic films can be interconnected to one another. The base electrode and the separated films can have lengths with gradually narrowing widths toward each end which narrow to zero at the ends. The intermediate material supported on a single base electrode can be common to all of these separated films thereon. The ferromagnetic layers in these structures are typically simple single films of Fe Co NiFe or other common ferromagnetic alloys.

The operating current for such sensors is typically supplied through a pair of current leads with one such lead connected to an end of the upper strip and the other lead connected to an end of the lower strip. The effective electrical resistance of the sensor is determined from measuring the voltage across the tunnel junction at two voltage leads each connected to one of the remaining two ends of these strips. Then by providing a current of a known fixed value through the current leads and measuring the corresponding tunnel junction voltage on the voltage leads the effective resistance can be simply calculated by dividing the measured voltage value by the chosen fixed current value.

As indicated above the measured resistance of the tunnel junction in such a sensor is a function of the relative orientation of the magnetizations of the two ferromagnetic thin film metal strips. The portion of the tunnel junction resistance that is subject to change as a result of that junction experiencing changes in external magnetic fields to which it is exposed is termed junction magnetoresistance often written JMR and defined as R Rbut is equivalently V Vfor voltage measurements with a fixed current with either being expressed as a percentage . The sensors described above demonstrated that the JMR therefor can be quite large at room temperature 10 to 60 .

Often more than one such magnetic field sensor is used in a sensing configuration to provide a larger output signal and in many instances to provide some sensor noise cancellation. These goals are many times pursued through use of a bridge circuit in which such giant magnetoresistive effect structures or spin dependent tunneling structures are provided as circuit resistors connected in two parallel branches between two power supply nodes with each such branch having two such resistors in series with one another. A single polarity voltage source is typically connected between the two power supply nodes with in many instances the negative side of the source being grounded. A signal sensing differential amplifier with a pair of inputs is typically electrically connected between the two bridge circuit output nodes i.e. the internal nodes of each of the two branches which for each is the node between the two resistors connected in series therein.

To have such a bridge circuit operate properly adjacent ones of the magnetoresistors in the circuit must vary in resistance differently under an applied magnetic field if a signal output is to result. If they each have the same resistance variation there will be a zero value signal developed between the bridge circuit output nodes i.e. between the sensing amplifier inputs. Since an externally applied magnetic field to be sensed will be approximately the same for each of the closely spaced resistors in the bridge circuit design measures are necessary to assure the needed resistive differences nevertheless occur between the adjacent circuit structures or resistors. One such measure previously used has been to place two of these magnetoresistors on opposite sides of the bridge circuit each connected to different power supply terminals under a magnetic shield leaving only the other two such resistors exposed to the effects of externally applied magnetic fields. Such an arrangement however allows determining the magnitude of an externally applied magnetic field in only one direction. Another such sensor must be provided to sense another field component.

A further variation of such a spin dependent tunneling sensor has the magnetization direction of one of the ferromagnetic layers on one side of the barrier layer pinned by an antiferromagnetic material layer provided thereon to thereby have its magnetization direction fixed relative to the remainder of the sensor as long as the magnitude of any external applied magnetic field is less than several times the maximum external field intended to be sensed. Again the electrical resistance of the junction depends on the relative magnetization orientations of the two ferromagnetic layers with the resistance being low when the two magnetizations are parallel and high when they are antiparallel. Therefore the pinned magnetization direction layer becomes a magnetization direction reference in setting a pinned direction and the magnetization orientation response of the free ferromagnetic layer to externally applied magnetic fields is translated into a corresponding change in the junction resistance. An electrical signal is again obtained between electrodes on the two ferromagnetic layers in connection with this manipulating of the magnetization direction of the free layer through an externally applied magnetic field.

Semiconductor integrated circuit chip fabrication techniques are again used for fabrication typically providing an integrated circuit based on silicon as a substrate for the spin dependent tunneling device sensors in a wafer supporting such devices thereon to result in having a typical basic wafer layer structure of Si integrated circuit substrate SiN 200 NiFeCo 12.5 AlO 15 or less FeCo 5.0 CrPtMn 30 in nm . The AlObarrier is formed by depositing a layer of metallic Al then oxidizing it in the plasma of Ar O. A magnetic field of 20 Oe is applied during deposition of the ferromagnetic layers to induce the desired easy axes therein in a direction parallel to the pinned direction maintained by the antiferromagnetic material CrPtMn.

A typical resulting structure of a chip from such a wafer is shown in the layer diagram of which is not a true cross section views in that many dimensions therein are exaggerated or reduced for purposes of clarity. Typically such a spin dependent tunneling sensing structure is provided on a semiconductor chip having suitable operating circuitry for the sensor arrangement provided in the resulting monolithic integrated circuit structure. An electrical insulating layer is formed on semiconductor chip . A device conductivity enhancement base layer is then provided on insulating layer followed with a ferromagnetic layer formed of permalloy NiFeCo being provided thereon so as together form the common bottom electrode with layer serving as the device free magnetic layer in being relatively free to have its magnetization direction altered by externally applied magnetic fields. There may be a further ferromagnetic material layer provided in some form on layer as part of the free magnetic layer such as a higher magnetic moment layer to enhance device performance at the barrier junction. An easy axis is provided for the common bottom electrode ferromagnetic layer typically parallel to the length of this structure though not necessarily so.

Thereafter an intermediate or barrier layer of aluminum oxide AlO is provided on the common bottom electrode ferromagnetic layer which supports two corresponding separate top antiferromagnetic material and ferromagnetic material electrodes each of which is a separate pinned magnetization direction layer. Thus all of these electrodes have to be of magnetic materials adjacent to the barrier that sandwich between the bottom and top ones of such the electrically insulating barrier layer.

Barrier layer has two separate compound ferromagnetic thin film layers thereon to form the two upper electrodes shown. These compound ferromagnetic thin film layers are provided to have a net layer magnetization that when fixed in orientation in the finally formed structure will resist rotation from that orientation and certainly resist firmly any rotation that could be sufficient to lead to a reversal in its orientation as a result of externally applied magnetic fields of up to 1000 Oe or more. These compound ferromagnetic thin film layers are formed beginning with a ferromagnetic layer of cobalt iron CoFe alloy on first composite ferromagnetic layer . Then a nonmagnetic layer of ruthenium rhenium or copper could alternatively be used is provided on layer as a Ru antiferromagnetic coupling layer. Thereafter another ferromagnetic layer of CoFe is provided on layer to complete a synthetic antiferromagnet as the reference layer for each upper electrode. A further antiferromagnetic material pinning layer exhibiting a substantial magnetic anisotropy can or must for best performance be deposited on layer to strongly set the magnetization direction of composite layer in the direction in which the resulting sensor cell is intended to sense external magnetic fields during use as a sensor. Hence a CrPtMnpinning layer is provided on layer with a selected magnetization direction. Then a layer of aluminum is provided on pinning layer to passivate the upper electrode and to allow electrical connections thereto for circuit purposes. A further layer is provided on layer to serve as an etching termination layer in connection with subsequent etching steps not described here. The resulting pinned or top electrodes are provided having an easy axis of the antiferromagnetic layer and so the easy axes of the ferromagnetic thin films in the compound layers in each of pinned electrodes either perpendicular or parallel to the direction of the longest extent of those structures. This choice depends on the desired device characteristics and is made in conjunction with the direction chosen for the easy axis of the common bottom electrode ferromagnetic layer forming the bottom electrode along with device conductivity enhancement base layer . A tunnel junction structure comprises a base electrode supporting a corresponding pinned electrode separated therefrom by a corresponding barrier layer with a base electrode shown supporting two corresponding pinned electrodes separated therefrom by a corresponding barrier layer forming a sensor device.

Following the completion of sensor device structures another layer of silicon nitride to form an insulating layer . On insulating layer a plurality of interconnections is provided for interconnecting sensor devices and also for interconnecting them with electronic circuitry in the integrated circuits in semiconductor substrates therebelow. Finally a further insulating layer is provided over interconnections .

A typical tunnel junction magnetoresistive characteristic graph is given in plotting magnetoresistance as a function of external magnetic fields applied along the easy axes of that pair of spin dependent tunneling junctions having reference electrodes supported on barrier layer and common electrode having the structure as specified above so that these fields are also applied parallel to the easy axis of composite free layer . The junction for the characteristic shown had an area of 130 280 m a resistance area product of RAP 900 k mand a junction magnetoresistance of JMR 41.6 . There are clearly two separate magnetoresistance states near zero values of the externally applied magnetic field. These two states correspond to the parallel and antiparallel configurations of the free layer magnetization with respect to the pinned layer magnetization. The free layer magnetization is flips back and forth from parallel to antiparallel with slight changes in the value of the externally applied magnetic field.

Such a spin dependent tunneling sensing device can be given a more linear characteristic near zero value external applied magnetic fields by using a biasing magnetic field to force the free layer magnetization to initially be perpendicular to the free layer easy axis direction. When this perpendicular bias field is large enough to saturate the free layer magnetization in the perpendicular direction the resistance vs. applied field characteristic becomes much more linear and has minimal hysteresis. The result is shown in . A bias current supplies a magnetic field perpendicular to this easy axis. The dotted line corresponds to a sensitivity of roughly 3 Oe. The biasing uses 95 of the total power and causes the temperature to rise through self heating. A major improvement on this situation would result if the linear low hysteresis output could be obtained without needing a perpendicular bias field.

A pinned reference layer spin dependent tunneling device sensor can also be operated in a bridge circuit typically a bridge circuit having four bridge legs each based on such sensors and further having associated operating and output signal conditioning electronics often provided in the substrate . Each bridge leg usually comprises multiple pinned reference layer spin dependent tunneling device sensors connected in series. Multiple spin dependent tunneling sensor pairs can be connected in series with pinned or upper electrode connected to the next common electrode to thereby increase the voltage range across the resulting sensor since each junction is best operated with about 0.1V of bias voltage provided thereacross. In simplest form the electronic output signal conditioning circuit is formed by a comparator receiving as an input signal the output signal from the bridge circuit. In typically used circuits there are often additional functions provided in the conditioning electronics such as amplification feedback parallel and perpendicular biasing filtering chopping stabilization voltage modulation etc. depending on specific device applications.

As the minimum feature size in monolithic integrated circuit fabrication gets smaller through improving fabrication technology to thereby result in faster and denser devices magnetic material portions in memory sensing and other kinds of magnetic material based devices will become superparamagnetic SPM when the magnetic anisotropy energy is reduced to be comparable to the device thermal energy leading to possible spontaneous demagnetization or spontaneous changes in magnetic state. Thus in most magnetic devices or operating structures including magnetic recording media magnetoresistive random access memories MRAM and many other devices such superparamagnetism is an effect that is sought to be avoided.

However superparamagnetic materials are unique in some of their properties including zero magnetic hysteresis and high sensitivity to externally applied magnetic fields. For any given magnetic material body with a volume V and an anisotropy constant K anisotropy energy per unit volume the total magnetic anisotropy energy is simply KV. In a 3 dimensional 3 D superparamagnetic magnetic material body meaning all of the body dimensions being of similar sizes the magnetization of the body is highly sensitive to applied magnetic fields around zero field values although it takes a fairly large field to saturate the body due to shape anisotropy and fringe fields. For a pseudo 2 dimensional 2 D superparamagnetic body with at least one body dimension being much smaller than the others such as a thin film small extent platelet on the other hand the shape anisotropy and the fringe fields are minimal in the primary plane of the platelet body with respect to which the larger extent body dimensions are parallel thereby leading to a much lower in plane saturation field than for a 3 D body. In this pseudo 2 D body situation the in plane body dimensions can be significantly larger than the platelet film thickness for a true 2 D sample this vertical dimension would be zero as long as the KV value is comparable with the body thermal energy.

Even higher field sensitivity can be achieved in a pseudo 1 dimensional 1 D superparagmagnetic magnetic material body having a relatively large body dimension in only one direction such as a magnetic material needle. A square shaped thin film can also effectively be a pseudo 1 D superparamagnetic body if it has a uniaxial anisotropy in the film plane which limits the magnetization to be in one of the two orientations along the easy axis. The word pseudo will be assumed for the 2 D and 1 D bodies in the following description but not further used explicitly.

Superparamagnetic behavior has been observed in several single layer and multilayer NiFeCo material samples. The observed coercivity is at most a fraction of an Oe which is likely due to the hysteresis of the instrumentation. Just as important as low hysteresis the material initial saturation field is very low. These are desirable characteristics for magnetic material layers in devices that have magnetizations that are relatively freely orientable. However such layers to be useful in magnetic field sensing devices must maintain their superparamagnetic behavior and thus avoiding too great a thermal stability against spontaneous magnetic state changes. Thus there is a desire to provide relatively free layers in magnetic field sensing devices exhibiting superparamagnetic behavior.

The present invention provides a ferromagnetic thin film based magnetic field sensor having an electrically insulative intermediate layer with two major surfaces on opposite sides thereof and an initial film of an anisotropic ferromagnetic material on one of those intermediate layer major surfaces. A superparamagnetic thin film is on the remaining one of said intermediate layer major surfaces formed with an anisotropic ferromagnetic material having that product formed of its magnetic anisotropy energy constant and volume being less than twenty five times that further product of its absolute temperature and Boltzmann s constant. This latter film has any magnetoresistance at no applied field being less than five percent of those values of magnetoresistance at the initial saturation point and this film can be one of several ferromagnetic material films on that intermediate layer major surface each less than 20 thick with this same retentivity condition. The initial thin film can be a fixed magnetization orientation film.

2 D superparamagnetic bodies can be used as the magnetic material layers in spin dependent tunneling device sensors for magnetic field sensing that are layers which are relatively free to have their magnetization directions reoriented free layers . A spin dependent tunneling device structure does not require a thick free magnetic layer to achieve a high magnetoresistive change ratio the maximum magnetoresistive value change possible divided by the lowest absolute resistance value being the MR or JMR ratio as the result of being subjected to an externally applied magnetic field change in contrast to giant magnetoresistive effect GMR structures where such free magnetic layers need to be at least several nm to achieve the highest possible MR ratio. A magnetic layer of a few Angstroms thickness is enough to achieve the maximum MR or JMR ratio value for a spin dependent tunneling device. As will be described below this thickness is the same as that needed for a practical superparamagnetic material layer. In actuality superparamagnetic bodies made by sputtering will result in being bodies somewhere in between a true 1 D body and 3 D body. Therefore the saturation field will be a non zero but small value which value serves to limit the sensitivity to externally applied fields of a sensing device made using such a material layer.

Because of the characteristic traits of superparamagnetic materials spin dependent tunneling devices using superparamagnetic materials as free layers will have a hysteresis free magnetization response to externally applied magnetic fields will require no bias and will have a resistance versus applied field characteristic that never changes after being subjected to any large excursions of externally applied magnetic fields of practical magnitudes such as those available from permanent magnets. The intrinsic high resistance of spin dependent tunneling devices in combination with the above mentioned zero bias requirement for a superparamagnetic free layer used therein offers a great opportunity to provide devices exhibiting ultra low power consumption.

As with regular spin dependent tunneling devices such devices with a superparamagnetic free layer used therein can be made relying upon microelectronic fabrication techniques to allow fast efficient and economic production of large numbers of such devices especially when integrating the devices in integrated circuit chips to provide therein the conditioning electronics for such devices and their associated signals. The devices will be especially suitable for low applied external magnetic field and low electrical power devices such as magnetic medium detectors nondestructive evaluation sensors biomedical chip devices and remote field sensors. One particularly suitable application is a solid state compass since there is no energy barrier to overcome which means smooth operation of the device to give true 360 degree operation.

A spin valve based GMR structure can also be constructed using 2 D superparamagnetic materials for the free layer therein to achieve high field sensitivity although MR ratio values therefor are smaller than for spin dependent tunneling devices. 3 D superparamagnetic layers can also be used in spin valve devices where a feedback mode of operation is preferred to utilize the most sensitive region at low fields.

The occurrence of superparamagnetism in a magnetic material body comes about for the dimensions of that body becoming so small that the ambient thermal energy is sufficient to cause the body magnetic moment to transition back and forth between two different stable orientations of the body magnetization set by the body anisotropy. The energy barrier between these two different magnetic states for the body is due to the effective anisotropy of the body. The transition rates depend on the body temperature and the body free energy with the energy difference between the states and the barrier being the primary determinant so that following Boltzmann statistics there is a strong exponential dependence on the ratio of the pertinent free energy to temperature.

Thus the thermal relaxation of the system has a relaxation rate for spontaneous magnetization direction reversals therein which is governed by the relaxation time constant that is in this situation determined from the Arrhenius equation 1 fexp E kT where fis the transition attempt frequency 10Hz summarizing certain other energy and temperature details of the body k is the Boltzmann constant T is the Kelvin temperature and E is the anisotropy energy barrier between the two different stable free energy minima states. With a zero applied external magnetic field E KV HMV where K is the body effective magnetic anisotropy energy constant V is the magnetic material body volume His the body magnetic anisotropy field and Ms is the body saturation magnetization.

When E kT is sufficiently small at any given temperature T the relaxation time becomes comparable to the measurement time and the magnetization orientation is unstable at that temperature. Thus a value for can be selected based on a length of time between magnetization reversals that will be arbitrarily considered long enough to represent body magnetic stability and then the Arrhenius equation leads to the nominal superparamagnetic condition for a magnetic material body characterized by parameters K and V and T that KV kT

When the magnetic anisotropy energy KV is negligible compared with the Zeeman energy HMV of the magnetic particle moment MV in an applied field Ha then the normalized magnetization M M can be approximated classically from the Brillouin function therefor by the Langevin function L a coth a 1 a where a H kT. Here MV is the total magnetic moment of the particle Ms is the saturation magnetization and V the volume. For small externally applied magnetic fields H the initial magnetic susceptibility is M H MV 3 kT.

The above described situation is for 3 D magnetic material body superparamagnetism since the magnetization vector M can have any possible orientation in the 3 D volume of the body. Even higher field sensitivity is obtained in what are essentially 1 D and 2 D superparamagnetic particles because of the smaller number of degrees of freedom in such bodies than in a 3 D body and the smaller demagnetization effects that occur therein than occur in 3 D particle assemblages. The thin ferromagnetic films as used in spin dependent tunneling devices are pseudo 2 D structures that well approximate 2 D structures in their magnetization behavior because any out of plane of the film magnetization component would create an enormous demagnetization field 4 M perpendicular to the film plane and would thus be energetically unfavorable. Therefore the magnetization of such a film is basically confined to be in the film plane to within a small fraction of a degree under normal externally applied operating magnetic fields. In contrast the demagnetization field in the film plane is minimal because of the much larger extent of the film in lateral directions as compared to the thickness thereof.

In addition to the geometric restrictions to assure superparamagnetic behavior on the thin film form of magnetic material bodies in which form the body magnetization is restricted to being essentially in the film plane there is also a field induced uniaxial anisotropy within the film plane that limits the body magnetization to being in one of two alternate directions along the body easy axis in the plane in zero externally applied magnetic fields. This type of body well approximates and is the effective equivalent of a 1 D superparamagnetic body which are quantized to have only two magnetization directions. An equation to describe a 1 D superparamagnetic body can be reduced from the Brillouin function for normalized magnetization because of the corresponding limited total atomic angular momentum involved to M M tanh a where a H kT a function similar to the Langevin function indicated above to be appropriate for a 3 D material situation. Both functions are plotted in . If the applied field His directed in the anisotropy or easy axis direction then the initial susceptibility will be enhanced over the Langevin function. Actually for a 1 D body case when KV kT 1 the initial susceptibility is 3MV 3 kT 2 KV kT M H where H 2K M. This is 3 times the Langevin value. For the 2 D body case when KV kT 1 4 3 KV kT M H which is 2 times the Langevin value. The hard axis initial susceptibility for the 1 D body case is M H. Since the susceptibility is inversely proportional to the temperature for KV kT ln f drops rapidly for all of the 1 D 2 D and 3 D body cases indicating that the particles become larger than the superparamagnetic limit.

As apparent from the foregoing the primary requirements for achieving high susceptibility are to have low dimension body superparamagnetism to have a low effective magnetic anisotropy energy constant K therefore a low H and to have a high KV kT ratio but as limited by the superparamagnetism condition KV kT

The field sensitivity of an aligned 1 D superparamagnetic free layer in a pinned reference layer spin dependent tunneling device can be estimated using typical values. Assume KV kT 10 for the superparamagnetic free layer film so that the relaxation time is then 22 s according to the Arrhenius equation a value which is fast enough for most low field sensing applications. Permalloy has H 3 Oe for films of 10 nm thickness and less for thinner films. Since M H 2 KV kT M H for a 1 D body we know that M H 2KV kT H H M. For an externally applied magnetic field Ha directed along the magnetization direction of the pinned reference layer of H 0.025H 0.075 Oe for permalloy the resulting change in magnetization due to such an applied field is M 2 0.5 M M.

The device tunneling current resistance or tunneling magnetoresistance is related to the free layer magnetization M by R M R R 1 M M . The resistance change between two arbitrary selected externally applied magnetic field values of Hand Hto provide a field change of His R R R R M M M R M M R M M R. The sensitivity in Oe is the percentage resistance change ratio or the tunneling magnetoresistance over the change in the externally applied magnetic field or R R H R Hand for a typical spin dependent tunneling device the tunneling magnetoresistance is typically 50 so the sensitivity is 50 0.15 Oe 167 Oe under a 0.15 Oe external field change. The minus sign means that the tunneling magnetoresistance decreases as the magnetization increases. This externally applied magnetic field sensitivity of 167 Oe is 15 times higher than the highest field sensitivity achieved using a conventional spin dependent tunneling device with precision biasing.

In an actual device the induced anisotropy is lower because a film of permalloy thinner than 10 nm is needed to exhibit superparamagnetic behavior and KV kT can be greater than 10 although a distribution of values of KV is likely for a real sample. These will make the field sensitivity even higher than the estimate above. However some shape anisotropy may present depending on the aspect ratio of the pancake shaped superparamagnetic material platelets. This shape anisotropy would likely reduce the field sensitivity.

A thin film that is infinitesimally thin with in plane uniaxial anisotropy is an ideal 1 D superparamagnetic material structure which offers the highest field sensitivity. For any real superparamagnetic material thin film the film thickness is not zero and its lateral dimension is not infinite to result in a situation somewhere between a true 1 D and a 3 D SPM material structure. As an example of a low dimension superparamagnetic material at room temperature a thickness of three atomic layers of Co about 7 leads to a lateral maximum size of about 100 in diameter of a disc shaped superparamagnetic material platelet of Co using the criteria of KV 25 kT. This lateral size is at least four orders of magnitude smaller in device area than that of existing devices.

The preparation of superparamagnetic free layer platelets often does not require patterning because the device reference layer across the barrier in a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device need not be aligned to individual platelets in the free layer as it instead typically covers many of them. The preparation of the device reference layer does need patterning but requires only dimension precision on the order of microns that available with photomicrographic techniques.

Another technique of forming uniform and controlled size free layer platelets is to use a buffer layer that has a well developed columnar structure. Magnetic layers will form on top of the columnar grains of the nonmagnetic buffer layer but not around the columnar boundaries. This approach of sputtering magnetically isolated particulate films is universally used in magnetic media in hard disc drives with KV 25 kT as required for storage stability. Single layer superparamagnetic material films have been fabricated with Cu NiFeCo Cu structure.

Turning to the structure of a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling sensor shows a layer diagram of a portion of such a device on both sides of the barrier layer as supported on a monolithic integrated circuit wafer that is to a considerable extent like the spin dependent tunneling device of . Here too and the following two figures are not true cross section views in that many dimensions therein are exaggerated or reduced for purposes of clarity. The underlying substrate for the superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device is typically again a semiconductor material based monolithic integrated circuit chip here as part of a monolithic integrated circuit wafer in fabrication having just a top surface portion thereof shown that is the passivation layer for the wafer chips as such chips are typically passivated with about 500 nm of silicon dioxide or SiO. Substrate typically has monolithic integrated circuit components integrated therein for operation of the sensing device supported thereon. Subsequently formed vias in the passivating SiOconnect such circuit components with these sensing devices to operate them and receive signals from them. Electrical insulating layer is formed again on semiconductor wafer chip but here is preceded by providing first a 50 nm tantalum nitride TaN etch stop layer on the passivation layer surface of wafer chip . Thereafter electrical insulating layer is provided on this etch stop layer as a 200 nm silicon nitride SiN layer both by sputter deposition. Together chip and layers and form an electrical insulating substrate that supports and provides a suitable surface for the superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices next to be formed.

A ruthenium Ru layer is next provided on electrical insulating layer to form a buffer nonmagnetic but electrically conducting layer for the bottom electrode of the superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices and NiFeCo is provided thereon to form the free magnetic layer superparamagnetic structures or platelets . Conducting buffer layer is needed to provide an interconnectable electrode for electric current to pass through in operating the sensor device as well as providing a resulting surface polycrystalline grain structure suitable for providing the small and uniform size ferromagnetic material platelets required for superparamagnetic material layer . These two layers are provided by RF sputter deposition first the layer of Ru to a thickness of 8 nm followed by the layer of NiFeCo to a thickness of 1.3 nm with a composition of 65 nickel Ni 15 iron Fe and 20 cobalt Co .

The actual resulting magnetic material structure of the nominal 1.3 nm NiFeCo layer for forming superparamagnetic material layer will not be a uniformly thick 1.3 nm layer because of the small time of deposition in providing such a thin layer. Instead the effective magnetic thickness effective magnetic anisotropy and effective size of the platelets that do result are dependent on atomic scale structure in and around each such NiFeCo platelet layer. The NiFeCo material initially deposits in clusters as do all thin films provided in material deposition processes . If this platelet layer deposition were continued for a longer time the gaps between the clusters would fill in to thereby lead to having a resulting continuous ferromagnetic film. The size and location of the clusters is strongly influenced by the underlying Ru grain structure. In a very thin film of ferromagnetic material there are also surface effects that can reduce or enhance the magnetic moment per unit volume of the surface layer of atoms. A ferromagnetic film in contact with a Pt or Pd layer for instance can induce ferromagnetism in the usually nonmagnetic material while a ferromagnetic film in contact with Cu will experience a decrease in magnet moment per atom at the interface. As a consequence of these atomic scale effects the magnetic properties of very thin films can be substantially different from those of films that are tens of nm thick. shows a top view of a portion of conducting buffer layer with the resulting platelets distributed thereacross.

AlOtunnel barrier layer is next formed by sputter deposition of 1.2 nm thick layer of aluminum onto the exposed surface portions of layer and platelets . After this deposition the aluminum layer is oxidized in a plasma of Ar O. The amount of oxygen in the sputter gas controls in part the oxygen content of the resulting AlO. The initially unoxidized aluminum layer expands by approximately 30 as a result of being oxidized.

A composite magnetically hard layer is next provided on top of tunnel barrier layer as the basis for providing pinned reference layer upper electrodes. Compound ferromagnetic hard layer is next provided on oxidized tunnel barrier layer through further sputter deposition. This compound ferromagnetic thin film layer is formed by sputter deposition beginning with depositing ferromagnetic layer of CoFe comprising 40 cobalt and 60 iron to a thickness of 5 nm which is deposited in the presence of an easy axis direction determination magnetic field of 20 Oe which is aligned with the intended length of electrically conducting layer in the common bottom electrode but could be alternatively aligned in the perpendicular direction in the plane of the layer depending on the device characteristics desired . Then nonmagnetic layer of ruthenium copper could alternatively be used is sputter deposited no orienting magnetic field needed in this instance to provide a Ru antiferromagnetic coupling layer of 1 nm thickness. Thereafter ferromagnetic layer of CoFe again comprising 40 cobalt and 60 iron is deposited to a thickness of 5 nm and again in the presence of an easy axis direction determination magnetic field aligned as was the field for layer . This compound layer is relatively insensitive to externally applied fields and contributes little to the spatial fields thereabout this advantage is given up by substituting a single 5 nm thick layer of Fe60Co40 in place of this compound layer as an alternative simplified structure . However the magnetization direction in this composite layer by itself is not very strongly fixed in any direction because of the relatively weak anisotropy exhibited by the CoFe layers.

Thus a further antiferromagnetic material pinning layer exhibiting a substantial magnetic anisotropy must be deposited on layer to strongly set the magnetization direction of compound layer in the direction in which the resulting sensor cell is intended to sense external magnetic fields during use as a sensor to thereby complete the magnetically hard reference layer. Such a layer has a strongly fixed magnetization direction which through exchange coupling to layer strongly fixes the direction of magnetization of that layer also and so that of layer through Ru layer . The result is an antiferromagnetic layer coupled strongly to compound layer which also provides a high magnetic inductance material layer layer with a corresponding substantial spin polarization against barrier layer . Hence layer of antiferromagnetic material CrPtMnis sputter deposited onto layer to a thickness of 30 nm in the presence of a 20 Oe magnetization axis determination magnetic field aligned with the fields used in forming CoFe layers and .

Post deposition annealing of the finished superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling junction material layers stack is done in an ambient atmosphere at a temperature of 250 C. for one hour in the presence of an applied magnetic field of 4000 Oe that is applied parallel to the previous magnetization axis determination fabrication magnetic fields. This annealing serves to enhance the magnetic hardness of the composite hard layer by enhancing the exchange coupling between its strata and . The anneal also improves the quality of the tunnel barrier layer .

The wafer fabrication structure of a portion of a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling sensor shown in shown in layer diagram form in must undergo further fabrication steps to complete the fabrication of useful magnetoresistive sensors therefrom in monolithic integrated circuit chips. The result of such a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling sensor fabrication process is shown in the layer diagram of . Prior to any etching of the wafer fabrication structure shown in a conductive 10 nm thick Al layer for forming buffer layer a 10 nm thick CrSi layer to form etch stop layer and 75 nm thick SiNhard mask layer not shown as it is subsequently removed are deposited onto antiferromagnetic material layer of the magnetically hard composite layer using sputter deposition. A photoresist mask is formed using standard photolithographic techniques on the surface of the hard mask layer in the wafer chip fabrication structure which hard mask is then etched using reactive ion etching RIE . This etching removes unmasked portions of the hard mask material down to the layer that will form etch stop layer . The photoresist mask is removed and the resulting wafer chip fabrication structure is further etched in an ion mill to remove those portions thereof down to tunnel barrier that are uncovered by the remaining portions of the hard mask. Thus top electrodes are formed by the ion mill removing the unmasked material down to tunnel barrier and also much of the 75 nm hard mask layer from the areas previously masked thereby. The remnants of the silicon nitride hard mask on the remaining portions of layer and the now exposed portions of barrier layer have a further silicon nitride layer sputter deposited thereon as a further hard mask. Common bottom electrode is then formed using a similar process to mask and etch the exposed portions of tunnel barrier platelets or superparamagnetic material layer providing the device free layer and electrically conducting layer to stop on or within electrical insulating layer to complete tunnel junction structure .

Tunnel junction structure top electrodes and common bottom electrode are passivated by sputter depositing electrical insulating passivation layer of SiNto a thickness of 100 nm. Contact window vias are formed in passivation layer to expose portions of layers using photolithography and RIE. Aluminum interconnections are formed by sputter deposition of a 100 nm layer of Al onto passivating layer and into windows exposing portions of layers and subsequent patterning this layer into interconnections using photolithography and RIE. Thus two tunnel junction structures are formed each having a magnetically hard top electrode as a pinned reference layer supported on barrier layer supported in turn on common bottom electrode so that they share this common bottom electrode having the free magnetic layer therein formed by platelets or superparamagnetic material layer . Although having two top electrodes per bottom electrode it is not necessary this arrangement provides for better use of physical space in the resulting chip it is not necessary to and an easier fabrication process.

At this point in the fabrication process the magnetoresistive properties of the resulting superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices as thus far completed can be tested so as to measure at least some of the tunnel junction structures magnetic response properties and circuit performances. The tunneling current resistance between the two adjacent magnetic material layers in the electrodes on either side of insulating barrier layer depends on the relative angle between the directions of the magnetizations in these two magnetic material layers. This resistance is relatively small when the two magnetizations are parallel and relatively large when they are antiparallel. The compound magnetic material layer in top electrode typically formed using FeCo therein has its magnetization direction pinned using antiferromagnetic layer typically formed using CrPtMn positioned immediately on or next to it. Under relatively small externally applied magnetic fields less than several hundred Oe this pinned layer magnetization direction changes little. Therefore an electrical signal can be obtained between the two electrodes by manipulating the magnetization magnitude and direction of the free layer formed by platelets or superparamagnetic material layer .

Additional layers must be deposited and patterned on the wafer chip fabrication structure having completed tunnel junction structures therein to complete the desired superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device chips which may done in some instances so as enable them to provide selected special capabilities. Thus electrical isolation barrier layer of SiNis typically sputter deposited over interconnections and the exposed portions of passivation layer . Here however as an example of forming a chip with a special capability the sensing of electrical current in a chip supported electrical conductor coil electrical isolation barrier layer is provided with a surface conditioner layer thereon to directly support thereon a 1.5 micron thick Al planar coil . A second electrical isolation barrier layer separates coil from a permalloy magnetic field shield provided on layer . Isolation barrier is formed here to a thickness from 2 m to 18 m by performing the following sequence one or more times spin coating benzocyclobutene BCB over interconnections and the exposed portions of passivation layer followed by prescribed soft bake. The top surface of BCB isolation barrier supports 500 nm of SiNas surface conditioning layer that is formed by sputter deposition. The thickness chosen for isolation barrier is determined by the required standoff voltage between coil and interconnections along with tunnel junction structures for a particular use of such a chip arrangement. A typical extreme requirement for an electrical isolation application is 2500 Volts standoff for which 18 m of BCB is required. More typical magnetic field sensor uses need only 50 Volts standoff or so. Planar coil is formed by standard photolithography and RIE etching of a layer of 1.5 microns of sputter deposited Al.

As indicated above in connection with a conventional spin dependent tunneling device biased to provide a more linear low hysteresis magnetoresistance characteristic as shown in a major improvement would occur if the linear low hysteresis magnetoresistance characteristic could be obtained in some similar kind of device without needing a perpendicular bias field. Spin dependent tunneling devices of the nature just described having free layers formed of superparamagnetic platelets or layers can indeed have magnetoresistance characteristics exhibiting zero hysteresis. Such a response is shown in a magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristic graph of a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device i.e. a pinned reference spin dependent tunneling device having a superparamagnetic free layer with no bias field used. shows another magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristic graph of the same superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device having the characteristic shown in but with a larger range of externally applied magnetic fields. Again zero hysteresis is present. In these characteristics the sensitivity to externally applied magnetic fields is not very high which likely due to a low KV kT ratio in the device free layer. The magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristics shown in are in drastic contrast to magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristics of a pinned reference spin dependent tunneling device having an ordinary ferromagnetic thin film free layer as were shown in where a large hysteresis exists alterable toward zero only by use of a large bias magnetic field.

For a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device having platelets or superparamagnetic layer as the device free layer across the barrier layer from a regular pinned magnetization direction reference layer the tunnel junction resistance is the highest when an externally applied magnetic field aligns the free layer magnetization represented by a single shaft arrow antiparallel to the reference direction represented by a double shaft arrow as is shown in and is the lowest when this applied field is reversed in direction as is shown in . The value of this magnetic field dependent resistance of the junction is halfway between these extremes for a zero value externally applied magnetic field because of the random distribution of the magnetizations of the platelets in the superparamagnetic layer serving as the device free layer as shown in . This resistance is exactly the same as when the free layer magnetization is saturated perpendicular to the pinned layer direction by a similarly directed externally applied magnetic field as shown in . Thus externally applied magnetic fields that are applied along a direction perpendicular to the reference direction do not affect the resistance value of such a superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device and only changes in externally applied fields parallel to the reference direction i.e. the sense axis result in changes in the resistance magnitude. These device characteristics are ideal for directional sensing uses.

 Orange Peel magnetic coupling occurring between protrusions from surfaces of deposited magnetic material layers in spin dependent tunneling devices that are unavoidably not flat is smaller in superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices than it is in conventional spin dependent tunneling devices because of the thinness of the free layers in the former as is required for the platelets forming such layers to be superparamagnetic. A reduction of the pinned layer thickness in a single pinned layer device or the use of synthetic antiferromagnetic layer as described above will further reduce such Orange Peel coupling as well as fringing fields.

In general spin dependent tunneling devices have the advantages of 1 higher externally applied magnetic field sensitivity 2 lower device power consumption and 3 smaller size. The significant improvements due to using a superparamagnetic material free layer increases all three of these advantages. Additional advantages due to using a superparamagnetic material free layer include a no magnetic field bias being required to linearize the sensor magnetoresistance versus external applied field characteristic and b the magnetization orientation of the free layer more truly following the orientation of an externally applied magnetic field because of no magnetic anisotropy being present.

There are several further uses for superparamagnetic materials in other magnetic circuit devices. Superparamagnetic platelets or layers can be incorporated into anisotropic magnetoresistive response devices and giant magnetoresistive response devices including in spin valve or pseudo spin valve versions as the free layer. The total signal for such devices may suffer from the use of a very thin superparamagnetic platelets or layer because that layer is much thinner than the mean free path for spin scattering. However this thickness is enough to sustain the full JMR for a spin dependent tunneling device as described above because it is the spin dependent tunneling probability that dominates the JMR in these devices rather than the spin scattering in the magnetic layers that is dominant in these other devices. Therefore the JMR value of a spin dependent tunneling device is affected little. A 3 D superparamagnetic body can be used in a traditional fluxgate to take advantage of the resulting high sensitivity and zero hysteresis. Superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices can be beneficially used in solid state compasses magnetic signature land mine detection fusing control of explosive projectiles magnetic media detection electrical current detection and other small magnetic field sensing uses such as are encountered in nondestructive metal structure evaluation biomedical sensing geology surveying and the like.

A typical superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device sensor has a bridge circuit of four superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device magnetoresistors and associated operating electronics. As indicated above multiple superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling device magnetoresistors can be electrically connected in series to form a resistance leg for such a bridge circuit that can have a higher total voltage applied across it than can a single such magnetoresistor or a pair thereof. This series interconnection of these magnetoresistors is often done in circuits where the supply voltage is much higher than the 100 mV that is safe to put across the tunnel junction of a single magnetoresistor.

From each of the two upper electrodes supported on barrier layer which in turn is supported on common bottom electrode form a corresponding tunnel junction structure in that figure and in to thereby together form junction pair as shown in . Two such junction pairs together form bridge leg in which thus contains two junction pairs interconnected in series using a metal interconnection through two vias so as to thereby provide four total tunnel junction structures therein as shown in . Four such bridge legs and are electrically interconnected together as shown in .

One such interconnection in extends from one end of bridge leg to one end of bridge leg . This is accomplished using an upper level interconnection shows only one level of metal interconnections in forming the devices shown there but multiple levels of metal interconnections are commonly provided in fabricating such monolithic integrated circuit structures . Interconnection is connected at one end thereof down through a via provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs to one end of bridge leg and is connected at the other end thereof down through a via in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections to one end of a lower level interconnection . Lower level interconnection is connected at the other end thereof up through a via through the same insulating layer to one end of another upper level interconnection . Upper level interconnection is connected at the other end thereof down through a via through the aforementioned two insulating layers to one end of bridge leg .

Similarly another upper level interconnection is connected at one end thereof down through a via provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs to the other end of bridge leg . The other end of interconnection is connected down through a via provided through the various insulating layers over monolithic integrated circuit chip to a power supply circuit terminal region in that integrated circuitry. In the same manner another upper level interconnection is connected at one end thereof down through a via provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs to the other end of bridge leg . The other end of interconnection is connected down through a via provided through the various insulating layers over monolithic integrated circuit chip to a power supply circuit terminal region in that integrated circuitry.

Interconnection through a via provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs also interconnects one end of bridge leg to power supply circuit terminal region . Again interconnection through a via provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs also interconnects one end of bridge leg to power supply circuit terminal region . The opposite ends of bridge legs and are connected together by a further upper level interconnection down through a via at one end thereof to the other end of bridge leg and down through a via at the other end thereof to the other end of bridge leg with both of these vias provided in the insulating layer separating the upper and lower levels of metal interconnections and in the insulating layer separating the lower level of metal interconnections from the bridge legs.

Monolithic integrated circuit chip substrate supports this bridge circuit. Portions of magnetic shield and coil from are cut away in to more fully reveal structures therebelow. Also the various dielectric layers are shown as being transparent except for the top of integrated circuit chip substrate .

The function of such an isolator structure is to perform is the passing of information carried in electrical current established in coil to the bridge circuit at its magnetoresistors without having a direct electrical interconnection between that circuit and the coil. The magnetoresistors based signal isolator of performs this function by conducting an information bearing electric current signals that is provided at a pair of coil inputs and of coil past the bridge circuit so that the magnetic fields resulting from these currents are converted to an electrical signal by the this bridge circuit and its associated operating circuitry. The input signal current through coil generates magnetic fields in a direction over bridge legs and that is concurrently antiparallel to the direction of the magnetic fields over bridge legs and generated by that same current. Due to the asymmetric nature of the superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristics as shown in the resistances of bridge legs and for one direction of current through coil will be greater than they are at a zero current value while the resistances of bridge legs and will be lower than they are at a zero current value and vice versa for the opposite current direction. This resistance difference in the otherwise balanced bridge legs results in an output voltage from the bridge circuit. This output voltage is a linear non hysteretic function of the coil input current because the magnetoresistance vs. externally applied magnetic field characteristics of the superparamagnetic spin dependent tunneling devices in the bridge legs are highly linear and non hysteretic.

As described above and shown in vias and contain metal interconnections to the integrated circuitry below in monolithic integrated circuit chip . These metal interconnections connect the bridge circuit to positive power supply circuit terminal region and negative power supply circuit terminal region respectively of an appropriate voltage or current source provided in that integrate circuitry as indicated in . The output voltage signal from the bridge circuit must also be provided to that integrated circuitry and is typically first provided to the inputs of a differential amplifier or comparator in that integrated circuitry. Thus lower level interconnection in the bridge circuit is also connected to that integrated circuitry by a metal interconnection through a further via provided through the various insulating layers over monolithic integrated circuit chip to a noninverting input of differential amplifier or comparator . Similarly upper level interconnection in the bridge circuit is also connected to that integrated circuitry by a metal interconnection through a further via provided through the various insulating layers over monolithic integrated circuit chip to an inverting input of differential amplifier or comparator . The amplified versions of the output voltage signals from the bridge circuit provided by differential amplifier or the voltage states assigned to the output voltage signals from the bridge circuit if this amplifier is instead a comparator are available at the amplifier or comparator output terminal region .

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

