---

title: Peroxide chemical sensor and sensing method
abstract: Sensors, sensing systems and sensing methods of the invention provide for detection of peroxides, including for example, vapor-phase HOand organic peroxides such as di-tert-butyl peroxide. A sensor and sensing method of the invention uses at least two phthalocyanines, one of which exhibits an oxidation reaction with peroxides and the other of which exhibits a reduction reaction with peroxides. A peroxide is readily identified by a sensor of the invention when one of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits increased resistance to current flow and the other of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits decreased resistance to current flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08178357&OS=08178357&RS=08178357
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08178357
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080723
---
This application claims priority under pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 60 962 132 filed Jul. 26 2007 and is a continuation in part that claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from PCT US2008 05743 which was filed on May 5 2008.

This invention was made with government support under AFOSR Contract No. F49620 02 1 0288 and NSF Contract No. CHE 0350571. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Fields of the invention include chemical sensing of peroxide based vapors and chemresistors. The invention is particularly applicable to sensing of peroxide based residues including residues of sterilization procedures and explosives including e.g. hydrogen peroxide organic peroxides and other peroxide based explosives. Chemical sensors of the invention have example applications in hospitals laboratories and military or industrial locations. Devices based upon sensors of the invention can be useful for example to detect gas leakages and sterilization residues and as explosive vapor detectors and chemical warfare agent detectors.

Chemical sensing is a critical process in a large number of everyday household manufacturing health care industrial military and scientific processes. A chemical sensor that can indicate the presence of a chemical of interest is useful to provide warnings such as to indicate an unacceptable level of carbon monoxide or to provide a warning regarding the presence of an explosive vapor or a chemical warfare agent. Similarly chemical sensors can provide information on the presence or absence of a particular chemical in a process control scheme. The presence or absence of a gas can provide feedback used to control a wide range of industrial processes. In the area of scientific research many instruments including for example chromatography instruments benefit from sensitive chemical detectors.

Sensitivity is a critical aspect of chemical sensors. The more sensitive a sensor is the lower level of chemical agent that it can detect. Accordingly there is great interest in producing highly sensitive chemical sensors. Early warning regarding levels of sensed chemicals faster control of processes responsive to particular levels of sensed chemicals and better detection in difficult environments are achieved as sensitivity increases. Some particular example applications of interest in the art will now be discussed.

One application of interest is the detection of ultra trace amounts of explosives and explosive related analytes. Such detection is of critical importance in detecting explosives in a number of civilian and military or security applications e.g. mine fields military bases remediation sites and urban transportation areas. Low cost and portability have clear additional advantages to such sensor applications.

In security applications chemical sensors are preferable to other detection devices such as metal detectors because metal detectors frequently fail to detect explosives such as those in the case of the plastic casing of modern land mines. Similarly trained dogs can be both expensive and difficult to maintain in many desired applications. Other detection methods such as gas chromatography coupled with a mass spectrometer surface enhanced Raman Spectroscopy nuclear quadrupole resonance energy dispersive X ray diffraction neutron activation analysis and electron capture detection are highly selective but are expensive and not easily adapted to a small low power package for broad distribution.

Vapor phase detection of peroxides is critically important for many health care military and industrial safety applications. Hydrogen peroxide HO is a common oxidant used industrially for paper bleaching and specialty chemical manufacture. It is also used in medical facilities as a chemical disinfectant. HOis quite toxic in the vapor phase 75 ppm which may be present from the vapor of 30 HOin water is immediately hazardous to health and the OSHA permissible exposure limit PEL for an 8 hour period is 1 ppm. Even those levels can be unsuitable for hospitalized patients and HOis an important sterilization tool for many hospital applications such as surgical instrument sterilization drug container sterilization and room sterilization. Other techniques are unsatisfactory from a sterilization perspective but use of HOcreates a risk of residues that are harmful at OSHA or even lower levels. Due to its widespread use and toxicity vapor phase monitoring of hydrogen peroxide is a necessity.

Concentrated hydrogen peroxide solutions are also precursor materials for organic peroxide based explosives which are commonly used by terrorists in improvised explosive devices making detection of both organic peroxides and hydrogen peroxide important to military and law enforcement agencies.

Peroxide based explosives such as triacetone triperoxide TATP have seen marked increase in use over the past ten years. TATP in particular has been implicated in the London bombings of Jul. 7 2005 as well as in the attempted airplane bombing by Richard Reid in December 2001. It has been widely used in improvised explosive devices by terrorists in countries e.g. Israel where the sale of high explosives is carefully monitored. TATP is a volatile compound vapor pressure 5.2 10Torr under ambient conditions susceptible to detonation from heat friction and shock and it is primarily used in illegal activities rather than for military applications.

There are a variety of detection methods currently being developed and used for the detection of hydrogen peroxide and organic peroxides. These technologies include chromatographic spectroscopic platforms mass spectrometric systems amperometric sensors and fluorescent chemical assays. The chromatographic systems include gas chromatography and liquid chromatography LC and HPLC interfaced with FTIR and fluorescence detection. These systems offer high sensitivity and selectivity but suffer from such drawbacks as relative size and lack of portability high power demands and sophisticated computational requirements. Mass spectrometry is widely used and suffers from similar drawbacks. Amperometric sensors and fluorescent chemical assays are extremely sensitive and can be used to detect trace amounts of peroxides but these methods only detect liquid solid peroxides and may be susceptible to false positives.

Cross reactive sensor array reactive sensor arrays have been shown to discriminate between chemicals in complex mixtures and under favorable conditions can be used for field detection to identify compounds of interest in a complex background. See Albert et al. Cross reactive Chemical Sensor Arrays Chem. Rev. 2000 100 2595 2626. Metallophthalocyanines MPcs are compounds that have been used in chemiresistive sensors. See Gould R. D. Structure and Electrical Conduction Properties of Phthalocyanine Thin Films Coord. Chem. Rev. 1996 156 237 274. The responses of MPc films to various oxidizing gases at constant direct current DC bias has been studied resulting in a large body of literature on the influence of O NO O and HO analytes on MPc resistive sensors. See Snow A. W. et al. Phthalocyanine Films in Chemical Sensors Lever A. B. P. Ed John Wiley and Sons New York 1989 Vol. 1 p. 341 Wright J. D. et al Gas Adsorption on Phthalocyanines and its Effects on Electrical Properties Prog. Surf. Sci. 1989 31 1 60.

Metallophthalocyanines are readily prepared in a simple one pot synthesis of the appropriately substituted phthalonitrile and metal salt of interest by refluxing in a high boiling alcohol with a catalytic amount of strong base for several hours Metallophthalocyanines have been synthesized with nearly every metal in the periodic table. The phthalocyanines studied most are those of the late first row transition metals such as iron cobalt nickel copper and zinc. Phthalocyanines are generally p type semiconductors with holes being the active charge carriers. N type metallophthalocyanines semiconductors are also known. Perfluorinated metallophthalocyanines where the 16 outer protons are replaced by fluorine atoms are n type semiconductors. Metallophthalocyanines films have been shown to exhibit ohmic conductivity and space charge limited conductivity.

Conductivity in phthalocyanines films is influenced strongly by atmospheric dopants primarily O. When phthalocyanines thin films are exposed to O the films become doped and the conductivity increases dramatically. This air induced conductivity has been attributed to different mechanisms. Resistive sensing studies with p type phthalocyanines thin films have focused primarily on their interaction with oxidizing gases such as ozone and NO. See e.g. Lee Y. L. et al Effects of Substrate Temperature on the Film Characteristics and Gas Sensing Properties of Copper Phthalocyanine Films Appl. Surf. Sci. 2001 172 191 199 Liu C. J et al. Response Characteristics of Lead Phthalocyanine Gas Sensor Effect of Operating Temperature and Postdeposition Annealing Journal of Vacuum Science Technology A Vacuum Surfaces and Films 1996 14 3 753 756 Sadaoka Y et al. Fast NODetection at Room Temperature with Optimized Lead Phthlocyanine Thin Film Structures Sens. Actuators B 1990 148 153. Phthalocyanines films are easily oxidized by NO forming charge transfer complexes which inject holes and increase film currents. The interaction of phthalocyanines films with reducing gases such as NH has the opposite effect. Decreased current upon analyte binding to these films has been attributed to electron donation from the reducing gas to trap charge carriers. Bohrer F. I. et al Gas Sesning Mechanism in Chemresitive Cobalt and Metal Free Phthalocyanine Thin Films J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007 129 5640 5646.

HOinteractions with CoPc have been extensively studied in solution phase amperometric apparatuses. It has been reported that FePc and CoPc can electrochemically catalyze both oxidation and reduction of HO. Electrooxidation of HOhas been found to occur over electron deficient films which agrees with the use of hole conducting Odoped FePc and CoPc films in the present invention. From the drastic current loss upon exposure of FePc and CoPc to HOit is apparent that chemisorption and subsequent oxidation of HO and concurrent reduction of the MPc film is occurring. The irreversibility of the current reduction in the FePc films suggests that some further reaction within the film is occurring such as the formation of the oxo dimer of FePc. The mechanism of interaction of HOwith CuPc and HPc is quite different. These films are oxidized by the dosing of HO which may arise from homolytic cleavage of HOto hydroxyl radicals and electron extraction from the organic ring of the phthalocyanine.

The interaction of di tert butyl peroxide with MPc films has not been reported in the literature. HPc and CoPc show minimal responses when dosed with di tert butyl peroxide suggesting that simple physisorption is occurring rather than redox chemistry. In contrast CuPc is oxidized by di tert butyl peroxide likely by a similar mechanism to HO homolytic cleavage of the peroxide bond followed by electron extraction from the organic ligand. FePc is strongly oxidized by di tert butyl peroxide in a similar mechanism to that of CuPc.

In contrast to the redox reactions explained above the interactions of phthalocyanines with common interferent vapors such as water volatile organic compounds VOCs or other electron donors involve coordination of the molecules to the metallophthalocyanine metal center and hole destruction in the semiconductor film by oxygen displacement as well as hole trapping by electron donor ligands. Analytes bind to open surface metal coordination sites and compete with Ofor occupied metal surface sites. There is the additional possibility of weak binding physisorption to the organic region of the phthalocyanines molecule for noncoordinating analytes which may be governed by weak hydrophobic and possibly charge transfer interactions. Metal analyte coordination strength has been shown to govern analyte binding and therefore the response of CoPc chemiresistive sensors to non oxidizing vapors. Similarly for HPc chemiresistive sensors the hydrogen bonding of analyte to the two interior NH protons has been found to primarily govern sensor responses to water and volatile organic compounds.

Sensors sensing systems and sensing methods of the invention provide for detection of peroxides including for example vapor phase HOand organic peroxides such as di tert butyl peroxide. A sensor and sensing method of the invention uses at least two phthalocyanines one of which exhibits an oxidation reaction with peroxides and the other of which exhibits a reduction reaction with peroxides. A peroxide is readily identified by a sensor of the invention when one of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits increased resistance to current flow and the other of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits decreased resistance to current flow.

Embodiments of the invention provide sensors and methods that can quickly distinguish peroxides from other oxidizing agents. Sensors and sensing methods of the invention provide for detection of peroxides including for example vapor phase HOand organic peroxides such as di tent butyl peroxide. A sensor and sensing method of the invention uses at least two phthalocyanines one of which exhibits an oxidation reaction with peroxides and the other of which exhibits a reduction reaction with peroxides. A peroxide is readily identified by a sensor of the invention when one of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits increased resistance to current flow and the other of the at least two phthalocyanines exhibits decreased resistance to current flow.

Sensors and sensing methods are generally applicable to peroxides and can detect various peroxides of interest to general safety and security applications. Additional example peroxides that can be detected include volatile peroxide based explosives such as triacetone triperoxide TATP and hexamethylene triperoxide diamine HMTD .

A preferred embodiment of the invention is a sensing system for sensing vapor phase peroxides. The preferred sensing system includes a pulsed dosing apparatus that provides analyte doses to at least two phthalocyanine chemiresistors one of which exhibits reduced current after reacting with peroxides and the other increased current. The system monitors the resistance of each of the chemresistors and determines the presence of peroxides when the two conditions are met. The amount of resistance increase in one of the chemresistors and the amount of resistance decrease in the other of the chemresistors can quantify the peroxides sensed as well.

Sensors sensing methods and sensing systems of the invention can use metal phthalocyanines. Example metal phthalocyanines that can be used in the invention include iron phthalocyanines cobalt phthalocyanines copper phthalocyanines and metal free phthalocyanine. Sensors sensing methods and sensing systems of the invention can also use metal free phthalocyanines. Other phthalocyanines include metallophthalocyanines such as zinc and nickel phthalocyanines which exhibit similar behavior to copper phthalocyanine. Chemically modified phthalocyanines can also be used.

Example materials include copper phthalocyanine CuPc CuCNH cobalt phthalocyanine CoPc CoCNH metal free phthalocyanine HPc CNH Copper hexadecafluorophthalocyanine FCuPc FCuCNH .

Preferred embodiments of the invention include chemresistors based upon thin phthalocyanine films e.g. 1000 nm or less. In a preferred embodiment a phthalocyanine film that oxidizes in response to peroxides is deposited over first set of electrode fingers and another phthalocyanine film that reduces is deposited over a second set of electrode fingers. The resistance of the two films is monitored through the electrodes.

Other preferred embodiments of the invention include organic ultra thin one or a few monolayers phthalocyanine film transistor chemresitors one with a reduction response to peroxides and one with an oxidation response to peroxides. Preferred embodiments of the invention make use of ultra thin film transistor chemresistors with nearly monolayer thin film channels that act as super sensitive detectors of trace levels of peroxides.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings may include schematic representations which will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale.

The sensor is readily fabricated by the deposition of thin films e.g. 10 1000 and preferably 10 100 nm of phthalocyanines on interdigitated electrodes . A wire bonding package permits connection to outside circuits in the example package. An example spacing of the electrode fingers is 5 m. In this embodiment separate semiconducting layers of phthalocyanines having different reactions to peroxides are placed between sets of narrowly spaced electrodes and a reasonable current can be measured from each. The phthalocyanines films can be deposited by epitaxial growth via vacuum deposition allowing precise control of the growth conditions film thickness and film morphology.

In example experimental embodiments interdigitated electrodes were prepared by standard photolithography and lift off processing on thermally grown SiO thickness of 1 m on 100 Si substrates. The electrodes consisted of 45 pairs of gold fingers spaced 5 m apart with an electrode width of 2 mm. An adhesion layer of 5 nm Ti was applied first followed by 45 nm of Au for a total electrode thickness of 50 nm. Six pairs of electrodes were grown on each substrate to verify sensor reproducibility and increase yield.

The regions can take many forms as thin or ultra thin approximately 10 nm films and the regions of phthalocyanines films can be replicated in arrays. While a simple chemrsistor is illustrated in other configurations that permit the measurement of the resistance of two separate phthalocyanine regions having different peroxide responses can be used in accordance with other embodiments of the invention. As one example shows a thin film transistor that has a phthalocyanine thin film channel . The embodiment is formed on a silicon substrate . While the example embodiment is a silicon based device other material systems can also be used. Gate dielectric e.g. silicon dioxide isolates source and drain electrodes and a gate electrode is formed on an opposite side of the substrate .

An additional transistor with a different phthalocyanine channel having an opposite peroxide reaction provides a peroxide sensor according to the invention. Fabrication and additional details of the thin film transistor are described in PCT US08 05743 filed May 5 2008 and entitled ULTRA THIN ORGANIC TFT CHEMICAL SENSOR MAKING THEREOF AND SENSING METHOD.

An example sensor array system based upon the transistor of is shown in and includes a plurality of sensors of the invention. Specifically some of the sensors include phthalocyanine regions that exhibit decreased resistance in response to peroxides and sensors having phthalocyanine regions that exhibit increased resistance in response to peroxides. The plural sensors are included on a sensor chip that is mounted in a socket such as by wire bonding. The socket provides thermal and electrical interference isolation for the chip from associated circuitry that is mounted on a common substrate such as a PCB printed circuit board . The PCB mounting arrangement permits for example the sensing system including the sensor array and circuitry to be incorporated into a handheld device. The circuitry preferably includes circuits for driving testing for chemical analytes receiving results from the chemical sensors storing testing information generating displays etc. Interconnections between the circuitry and the chip are through conventional PCB connections and the PCB can also include circuitry related to a device that the sensor array is being incorporated into. Prototype 6 pack sensor arrays demonstrated the packaging arrangement to be repeatable for over 10 organic transistors made of three different materials and deposited at five different conditions.

A particular method of operation of the array system maintains very low baseline drift by applying a low duty cycle less than 50 and preferably about 10 or less gate pulse train on the gate electrode. A low frequency signal is also preferred less than 100 Hz and preferably below about 10 Hz to keep the transistor operation close to its DC characteristics.

In preferred embodiments a low duty cycle analyte dose preferably about 10 or less is combined with a low duty cycle pulsed gating. This permits the baseline drift for low vapor pressure analytes to be reduced to a level similar to those attained for highly volatile analytes. In a preferred embodiment the circuitry also controls valves to an enclosure that is part of an analyte testing to control analyte pulses in addition to gate pulses.

Sensing methods of the invention using sensors in accordance with or with other chemresistor arrangements generally make use of different phthalocyanine regions that have different peroxide reactions. illustrate the structure of metallophthalocyanines and metal free phthalocyanines which are macrocyclic molecules that can be used in preferred embodiments. Metallophthalocyanines may have various metal centers and organic ring substituents that allow for the tuning of selectivity. Metallophthalocyanines are exceptionally stable molecules. In vacuum they sublime with high purity at approximately 450 C. and are thermally stable up to 900 C. They are stable in the presence of strong acids and bases as well as oxidizers and are used in preferred embodiments to take advantage of these favorable properties.

Example devices consistent with the embodiment were fabricated and tested. The description of the experiments will reveal additional details of preferred embodiments while artisans will also appreciate broader aspects of the invention from the experimental data.

The experiments used four different metallophthalocyanines iron FePc cobalt CoPc copper CuPc and metal free HPc . These molecules have good reactivity to peroxides. FePc and CoPc are known to catalyze the oxidation of hydrogen peroxide in solution and have accessible higher metal oxidation states Fe Co CuPc has no accessible higher metal oxidation state but is widely used as a vapor sensor for other oxidizing gases such as ozone and NOvia oxidation of the phthalocyanines ring. HPc is generally considered to show poor sensing due to the lack of a metal center to catalyze peroxide decomposition. The peroxides analyzed in experiments included 30 HOin water and di tert butyl peroxide as a simulant for TATP.

Electrical contacts were made to the phthalocyanine sensor films via wirebonding providing stable low noise contacts. The sensors were held in a controlled environment at constant temperature in the absence of light to remove photoconductivity. Analytes were detected by measuring the film current as a function of time at a constant voltage.

A preferred dosing method was used during the experiments. The dosing method introduces analyte vapors into the sensor chamber by a system of impingers and mass flow controllers. A constant flow rate of 500 sccm standard cmper minute of zero grade air was applied during the dosing purging cycle. Analytes were introduced into the flow by impingers immersed in a Haake F8 constant temperature bath. Mass flow controllers MKS Instruments Inc. 1479A 10 sccm and 1000 sccm were used in conjunction with the impingers and a four way valve to saturate the carrier gas with a known concentration of analyte before introduction into the sensor chamber. Solenoid valves were placed before and after each bubbler to prevent cross contamination of analytes. A Labview VI program was used to control all instruments and record data.

In accordance with the structure shown in interdigitated electrodes were prepared by standard photolithography and lift off processing on thermally grown SiO thickness of 1 m on 100 Si substrates. The electrodes consisted of 45 pairs of gold fingers spaced 5 m apart with an electrode width of 2 mm. An adhesion layer of 5 nm Ti was applied first followed by 45 nm of Au for a total electrode thickness of 50 nm. Six pairs of electrodes were grown on each substrate to verify sensor reproducibility and increase yield.

FePc Aldrich 90 CuPc Aldrich 97 CoPc Aldrich 97 and HPc Aldrich 98 were purified via multiple zone sublimations at 400 C. and 10Torr. Films of a thickness of 50 nm were deposited on six interdigitated electrodes per substrate by organic molecular beam epitaxy in a UHV chamber with a base pressure of 2 10Torr. The deposition rate of the phthalocyanine films ranged from 0.2 to 0.5 sec and the deposition pressure was 5 10Torr. Film growth rate and thickness were monitored with a quartz crystal microbalance QCM . The interdigitated electrodes were mounted on a temperature controlled stage monitored with two thermocouples. Substrate temperature during deposition was held constant at 25 1 C. After deposition the devices were stored under vacuum at 10 mTorr or less until use. The thickness of the films was confirmed by low angle XRD measurements performed on a Rigaku RU 200B diffractometer using Cu K radiation.

The analytes used in the experiments were 30 HOin water and di tert butyl peroxide. HO Fisher was used as purchased with a fresh solution for every dosing run. Di tert butyl peroxide Aldrich 98 was used as purchased. It was kept at 2 6 C. under inert gas. Dosing concentrations for HOwere calculated from published techniques. HOwas dosed at 15 30 45 60 and 75 ppm. These doses included water vapor at concentrations of 1651 3302 4953 6604 and 8255 ppm respectively. Dosing concentrations for di tent butyl peroxide were calculated from reported values using the known Clausius Clapeyron equation. Di tert butyl peroxide was dosed at concentrations of 150 225 300 375 and 450 ppm.

A preferred method of measuring resistance change was used in the experiments and involves continuous sensor current measurement as a function of time at constant voltage. The responses of four different phthalocyanines FePc CuPc CoPc and HPc were tested with respect to two different peroxides 30 HOin water and di tert butyl peroxide. Phthalocyanine sensor responses are known to exhibit first order kinetics behavior and therefore have linear responses with respect to dosing concentration. It is thus unnecessary to wait for the sensor to reach saturation in response to a dose. Instead a specific predetermined time interval can be used for each dose in this case 5 min but can be as fast as 1 min gives an accurate and reproducible relative sensor response and has the added benefit of reducing response and recovery times.

Responses of the FePc CuPc CoPc and HPc sensors were determined from the time dependent current plots of the films when dosed with analyte. HOand di tert butyl peroxide were dosed in the kinetic regime with a 5 duty cycle 5 min dose with a 90 min recovery and in the saturation regime with a 25 duty cycle 30 min dose with a 90 min recovery . Water was dosed as a control for comparison to the aqueous hydrogen peroxide with a 20 duty cycle 5 min dose with a 20 min recovery . Sensing data of all MPcs to both peroxides in the kinetic regime can be seen in . Sensing data of all phthalocyanines to both peroxides in the saturation regime is shown in .

To isolate the response of the sensors to aqueous hydrogen peroxide the films dosed with an equivalent humidity of pure water vapor was also measured and the results are shown in . All four sensors exhibit modest current drops when exposed to water vapor indicating that the major sensor effect is derived from HO even at concentrations orders of magnitude less than water. Differential analysis of the varied responses of FePc CoPc CuPc and HPc can be used to identify peroxides from a complex background of interferents.

It can be seen qualitatively in that the changes in current of the films scale with analyte concentration. In order to quantitatively analyze the sensor responses the percent current change was calculated for each dose using equation 1 current change 100 1 

where Iis the current at the start of the dose and Iis the current at the end of the 5 min dose. This value is designated as the sensor response. Negative responses indicate current decreases while positive responses indicate current increases. Sensor responses to analyte doses can be seen in Table 1. Phthalocyanine sensor responses for di tent butyl peroxide are linear with respect to analyte concentration in general R 0.97 confirming first order analyte film interaction kinetics. For hydrogen peroxide however sensor response is not linear at higher analyte concentration suggesting a more complex mechanism of chemical sensing likely from catalytic decomposition of the peroxide.

The redox properties of phthalocyanines have been thoroughly studied in the scientific literature. The responses of particular phthalocyanines to peroxides can be rationalized by the electronic structures of the phthalocyanines themselves. Phthalocyanines peroxide interactions have been studied experimentally using electrochemistry voltammetry spectroscopy IR EPR UV Vis and mass spectrometry. It has been reported that reductions and oxidations of HOby CoPc occur at the metal center CoPc and CoPc ions have been experimentally detected. A similar mechanism has been identified for FePc an even more potent catalyst for HOdecomposition. In contrast oxidations and reductions of CuPc have been identified as occurring on the ligand. This is also the case for HPc which also has no metal center to oxidize.

The experiments illustrate that sensors of the invention can detected hydrogen peroxide and organic peroxide vapors in ppm amounts by interaction with nanoscale chemiresistive films of phthalocyanines. The results show that other peroxide based explosives such as TATP can also be detected based upon the same mechanism. Analyte detection may be achieved by use of a variety of phthalocyanines typically metal free HPc copper CuPc cobalt CoPc and iron FePc phthalocyanines this list can also include MPcs with similar electronic structures e.g. NiPc and ZnPc. Sensor responses time dependent current at constant voltages are seen immediately 

The combination of two sensors with opposite current responses to specific analytes present an inexpensive and simple means to detect low ppm levels of hazardous peroxides and peroxide based explosives. While many oxidants such as ozone nitrogen oxides and halogens are known to cause an increase in conductivity increased current or decreased resistance of MPc sensors peroxides are unique by virtue of the ability of some MPcs e.g. CoPc and FePc to catalyze oxidation of peroxides resulting in reduction of the film and a decrease in current. Therefore in an example dual sensor array of the invention consisting of CuPc and CoPc an increase in current in both sensors indicates the presence of an oxidizing vapor while a decrease in current in both sensors indicates the presence of an electron donor ligand. However if the current in the CuPc sensor increases while the CoPc sensor current decreases it uniquely identifies the presence of hydrogen peroxide.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

