---

title: Method and system for remotely managing business and employee administration functions
abstract: A method for managing human resource services, including determining a profile of a first business, where the profile comprises a plurality of attributes of the first business; identifying a second business matching the profile of the first business; receiving a first human resource service requirement of the second business and a second human resource service requirement of the second business; sending the first human resource service requirement and the second human resource service requirement to a plurality of third party providers; receiving a plurality of products from the plurality of third part providers; generating a first benefits package comprising a first subset of the plurality of products, where the first benefits package satisfies the first human resource service requirement and the second human resource service requirement; and installing the first subset of products.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937329&OS=07937329&RS=07937329
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 07937329
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080724
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 755 934 filed on Jan. 4 2001. Accordingly this divisional application claims benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 755 934 under 35 U.S.C. 120. U.S. application Ser. No. 09 755 934 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 174 480 under 35 U.S.C. 119 e . U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 174 480 was filed on Jan. 4 2000. Both U.S. application Ser. No. 09 755 934 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 174 480 are hereby incorporated in their entirety.

This invention pertains to an integrated business process and system for remotely managing business and employee administration services. More particularly this invention relates to a business process and system to allow remote outsourcing of human resource and other business and employee administration functions.

Administering employee benefits is a time consuming complicated and costly burden for most small and medium size companies. Smaller companies typically do not have the expertise or scale to effectively manage employee administration and human resource functions such as payroll tax filing health benefits retirement plans workers compensation and other business insurance or human resources compliance more generally. In fact employee benefits administration diverts a significant amount of management time from the core strategic or revenue producing activities of the enterprise. In addition there are compliance risks associated with being an employer that are significant for smaller companies that don t have the resources to understand their ever changing and complex regulatory responsibilities.

In addition smaller companies are usually unable to hire qualified personnel with the expertise to manage the human resource and employee administration activities for them effectively. Not only do employers and employees both become frustrated with the amount of time required to be spent on these lower value activities but employers are often not sufficiently well informed regarding their responsibilities as employers that are imposed by an ever increasing and complicated set of employment statutes and regulations. Companies that remain unwittingly out of compliance can be subject to serious retroactive sanctions.

Because these activities are essential although rarely strategic human resource and employee administration processes are ideal candidates for outsourcing to companies that make those activities their strategic work that is companies that can perform such services cheaper better and faster than their clients. Outsourcing non strategic activities has been popular among larger companies for many years. Outsourcing is becoming increasingly popular among smaller businesses as the benefits of focusing on a company s competitive work become more clear and as outsourcing providers increasingly take aim at the smaller company market.

In a parallel development the Internet has emerged as a mass communications and commerce medium enabling millions of people and businesses worldwide to share information and conduct business electronically. International Data Corporation of Framingham Mass. USA as of 1999 has predicted that the number of Internet users will grow from 100 million in 1998 to 320 million in 2002. In addition to its emergence as a mass communications medium the Internet has features and functions that are unavailable in traditional media. These features and functions include e mail and immediate 24 hour access to hundreds of thousands of companies from around the world. Along with the impressive overall growth of the Internet business to business usage is also growing rapidly as businesses are increasingly leveraging the Internet s ability to reach customers globally deliver personalized content and services and open new distribution channels. While consumer buying on the Internet will likely grow over 300 over the next three years the business to business market is viewed by many as the area that will benefit the most from revolutionary improvements enabled by the Internet. Industry sources predict that over the next few years business to business transactions will likely account for nearly 90 of all Internet transactions.

The emergence of Internet technology enables the integration of multiple and complex elements in the employee administration activity flow. The Internet technology allows for instant deployment without any requirement to invest in technology other than a Web browser. Many of the traditional administrative service providers also have initiatives in various stages of development to provide Web based information and access for their clients. The sector has also spawned Web based outsourcers providing services ranging from employee benefits management to payroll management to travel management.

Given the attractiveness of outsourcing particularly for non core functions such as employee administration and human resources various companies are already involved in the provision of administrative services and some of these companies also provide such services via the Internet. These companies include a non integrated services providers such as payroll processing companies and third party administrators TPAs for various insurance or financial products b professional employer organizations PEOs also known as employee leasing companies that offer integrated employee administration and human resource services through a co employment arrangement whereby the employees of client companies also become employees of the PEOs c application service providers that host certain employee administration and human resource applications in a service bureau environment and d human resource integrated system software providers.

Functions provided by non integrated administrative service providers both traditional and electronic include payroll processing insurance brokerage workers compensation claims administration medical claims administration and unemployment claims administration. A variety of more specialized and complicated human resources functions are also provided such as Section 125 Plan Administration a statutory provision in the U.S.A. tax code to permit payment of employee contributions for benefit plans to be taken from pre tax finds COBRA administration a U.S.A. statutory provision for the temporary continuation of employer group health insurance for employees when that insurance would otherwise end enacted as part of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 401 k retirement fund plan administration a provision of the U.S.A. tax code and human resource consulting. It should be appreciated that the administration of such plans can become quite complex for a large workforce and for employers that provide a variety of related plans that are interrelated. While a collection of non integrated service providers may offer more product choice they do not possess the desired level of efficiency accuracy and functionality. Furthermore for a typical employer in the target market the onus of interacting with wide range of service providers selecting among numerous product offerings and maintaining these outsource relationships can actually increase the time and cost burden on the employer. While many of these administrative service providers in particular the payroll companies have attempted to expand their human resource service offerings for their clients to include other human resource and administrative services the breadth and functionality of these recent initiatives fall well short of the desired model.

PEOs by entering into co employment arrangements with clients aim to provide employee administration services to a large number of employees thereby deriving economies of scale as well as delivering services at a level typically available only to larger corporations. There are over 2 million employees currently under PEO arrangements. The industry is highly fragmented with approximately 2 000 companies most of which serve a single market or region leaving companies with offices and employees in different states in a bind. Because workers compensation insurance arbitrage is a significant source of revenues for PEOs PEOs have tended to largely target the blue collar industry segments.

There are certain regulatory questions regarding the definition and responsibilities of the employer in a PEO relationship as well as certain detrimental side effects of the co employment relationship. First the PEO model requires that there be a shared employer status with the client. In addition signing on with a PEO requires resetting an employee s wage base to zero for the purposes of calculating federal and state payroll social security and Medicare taxes. PEOs also generally suffer from adverse selection in group medical care due to a lack of minimum participation requirements during client acquisition process. Moreover should a company decide to withdraw from a PEO relationship it may lose its independent workers compensation modifier and its unemployment rating which could negatively impact that client s insurance and payroll tax costs. Furthermore in a PEO relationship small companies subject themselves to larger employer legislation such as the Family Medical Leave Act of the U.S.A.

From a revenue perspective PEOs are not permitted by legislation to earn commissions or other income from the sale of third party products and services e.g. insurance and financial products to their co employees. Finally as a competitive service offering the PEO industry is small and immature with most companies struggling with limited technical infrastructure and a manually intensive service delivery model. The industry has also been plagued by well publicized failures of financially unsound and in some cases unscrupulous operations.

As with the non integrated administrative service providers certain participants in the PEO industry are in various stages of developing a Web presence. For example the company called Administaff Inc. of Kingwood Tex. USA has an operational Web site at the uniform resource locator URL address of www.administaff.com to serve its clients.

Application service providers ASPs manage all the hardware networking equipment and software for certain employee administration and human resource applications and allow their customers to access the applications through a Web interface or over a dedicated communications line. One such firm is known as USinternetworking Inc. USI of Annapolis Md. USA having a URL Web site at www.usi.net which delivers via the Internet on a service bureau basis enterprise applications covering relationship management electronic commerce data warehousing Web site management human resources and financial management. A Web enabled engine from Peoplesoft Inc. of Pleasanton Calif. USA powers USI s financial management human resources benefits administration and payroll product offerings. Another example is Employease Inc. of Atlanta Ga. USA a company that provides human resources HR information management over the Internet and which has a Web site at the URL of www.eease.com through which it provides an extranet style service that allows human resource client personnel and the client s vendors partners and trusted advisors to access employee data on a consistent and controlled platform. Providers such as these would typically target and attract significantly large clients.

Human resource integrated system software providers such as Peoplesoft Inc. SAP AG of Walldorf Germany Lawson Software of St. Paul Minn. USA and Best Software Inc. of Reston Va. USA which offer human resource integrated system packages designed to help manage the payroll and administration functions within companies. There are also user interface systems such as the iClick service from Product Technologies Corporation of White Plains N.Y. USA which is designed to increase the self service functionality of human resource integrated systems. These software products are generally designed to operate in larger company environments under control of human resource professionals.

Because many of these service companies outsource their individual services to outside providers the quotations that are provided to potential clients are necessarily fractured into the various service portions. Further complicating the quotation calculus is the fact that the costs for these services may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. None of these systems has the ability to provide an instantaneous quotation for a whole package of employee benefit services as specifically identified by the client and in the client s specific jurisdiction.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a fully integrated employee administration system and human resource outsourcing service that can be accessed via the Internet by either the employer or the employee.

It also would be advantageous to provide a fully integrated employee administration system and human resource outsourcing service that does not require shared employer status with the client company.

It would be further advantageous to provide an Internet based employee administration system and human resource outsourcing service that can react to information provided by the employee by suggesting actions to be taken and that can carry the subscriber through these actions at a time convenient to the subscriber.

These and other advantages of the invention are accomplished by providing an integrated system and business process for employee administration and human outsourcing to which both companies and their employees can subscribe. The system is able to perform several types of administrative and human resource services such as payroll administrative services including payroll and tax filing unemployment claims COBRA and pre tax plan administration insurance services including group health property and casualty and personal lines retirement and savings plan administration including 401K and IRA retirement savings plans and deferred compensation plans human resource services including compliance material employee development tools and advisory services business network services including discount procurement purchasing cards work share and e mail and employee services including credit card and discount legal services.

The system is accessed by an Internet connection and a Web browser without a need for a traditional stand alone application and software. The system maintains the business subscriber data on database servers. The applications components that make up the technical platform include 1 a user interface 2 integrated human resource and supporting payroll administration integration 3 customer service and contact management 4 accounting and 5 billing. The system is contemplated with three tiers a client presentation tier that accepts business subscriber input a business logic tier that accepts input from the business subscribers and processes it according to defined business rules such as by extracting data as needed and a data services tier that controls data access and storage. These tiers are primarily software driven and are not necessarily dependent upon the particular hardware components used.

In operation the system first surveys a wide base of firms of similar type and size and with similar needs and determines what benefits choices such firms set of clients might require. The system then approaches various providers of such services and asks what benefit packages these providers may offer given fixed requirements of a specific set of clients. In one particular embodiment options for business subscribers or clients are then grouped into fully integrated employee benefit packages and priced according to content. In another embodiment a specific set of clients may be offered a fixed choice of benefit packages that cannot be modified or customized further. In the preferred embodiment customers will be able to create a customized package by selecting from offered choices of benefits.

The prospective business subscriber may access the inventive system on the Internet Web site using a standard Web browser. The inventive employee administration and human outsourcing system presents screens and forms to a business subscriber for input of data. The business subscriber enters information as requested and the system accepts the data using appropriate encryption security measures. Certain defined business translation rules allow the business subscriber data to be processed and translated into the form comprehensible by internal as well as the third party provided benefits package components. The data is stored and processed according to these rules so as to perform the desired administrative functions.

The system of this invention has the ability to provide a price quotation for the entire group of services that are offered to a client within a set of benefit packages. This price quotation is provided regardless of the origin of the individual services within the benefit packages. The price quotation feature may operate by having each service provider whose services are offered supply to the inventive system a formula and or a list of factors on which the quotation calculation is based for determining a price for the services offered.

When business subscribers access the system they are asked to submit information regarding their business and its structure. Based upon this submitted information several benefit packages of services that the system determines as best satisfying the potential client s needs and requirements are presented to such potential client to choose from. The system further allows the potential client to add or delete services from the selected package and then calculates the price quotation for the service offered for each service provider and aggregates all quotations into a single pricing quotation for each benefit package of services.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of management of the benefit package grouping selected by the client. The management system includes seamless integration of benefit packages from various providers where the integration occurs at least partially by sharing among the various benefit packages the relevant personal employee information that has been provided to the management system. The system s Web site will appear specific to whoever logs on i.e. the subscriber employer or the employee based on information originally provided during set up and information provided during all subsequent sessions within the parameters of the options chosen by the subscriber employer. The integrating layer will interactively and by anticipating certain events provide advice and guidance to each subscriber or each employee based upon the total information provided at various times and will also be able to act on the information or life events to initiate appropriate actions in affected benefit packages. The system will be predictive in accordance with the information provided to suggest actions that need to be taken and actively guide the user through those actions.

This invention comprises an integrated system and business process for human resource administration and employee management. This system enables companies to increase their profitability by reducing time and resources spent on non revenue producing activities assisting clients in attracting and retaining high quality employees and reducing the cost and risk of human resources and employee administration.

The basic configuration of each of the computing devices is depicted in . In one illustrative embodiment the computing device may include a bus which is connected directly to each of a central processing unit CPU a memory a system clock a video interface an input output I O interface and a communications interface . The common bus is connected by the I O interface to a storage device which may illustratively take the form of memory gate arrays disks diskettes compact discs CD digital video discs DVD etc. The video interface couples a display to the common bus . The communications interface is coupled to network ports which in turn are connected to the network whereby a data path is provided between user s computing devices via the network and the backbone and the computing devices .

As shown in the architecture of the system of the present invention in its preferred embodiment may comprise a user interface tier for accepting user input in to the system . The user interface may be accessed via a Web server component by means of the Internet the PBX component by means of the telephone network the Interactive Voice Response IVR component also by means of the network and via any other known means

After the system is accessed via any component of the interface tier any user request or inquiry is passed to an integration tier comprising an integration facility for performing requested user actions a shared data database for maintaining basic user information common to participating systems of a business application tier and of a third party products tier and a business rules database comprising common rules followed by all participating systems of the business application tier and of the third party products tier .

The service integration tier accommodates user requests by accessing targeted business application tier products and third party provider tier products residing on host computing devices belonging to the individual third party providers outside of the system to perform seamlessly as one unit. This is achieved with the use of the data transformation tier that includes a meta data database comprising data formats and loaders of all participating systems of a business application tier and of a third party products tier . The integration facility uses the data transformation tier to present the data retrieved from the business application products and the third party provider products to the user via the interface tier . This enables the inventive system to offer to its customers a particular range of suitable product located within and outside of the system as unified benefit package combinations.

As presently contemplated the products and relate primarily to human resources HR business functions and may include at least the following administrative services 

 a payroll administrative services which would include Human Resources Management System HRMS functions such as payroll and tax filing unemployment claims COBRA and pre tax plan administration 

 b insurance services which includes group health property and casualty and personal lines insurance retirement and savings plan administration including 401k IRA and deferred compensation plans 

 d employee development tools and advisory services business network services including discount procurement purchasing cards work share and e mail and

These products and are selected for inclusion in the business application and the third party tiers in the following manner 

 1 First a wide selection of similar type businesses is surveyed. These surveyed businesses representing potential customers with similar numbers of employees may engage in similar types of business and have similar needs as far as the human resource management areas are concerned. One example of the type businesses surveyed may include computer consulting companies located in various states each company employing a certain number of employees e.g. fewer than 50. These surveys determine what choices of benefits or services such companies which represent potential customers might require.

 2 The target companies may then be grouped based on various criteria such as the type of business the number of employees type of work performed e.g. service or manufacturing or some other criteria.

 3 Business application products required as determined in step 1 to accommodate the needs of the target clientele e.g. General Ledger and payroll are then procured and installed in the business application tier of the system .

 4 A number of diverse providers of services required as determined in step 1 to accommodate the needs of the target clientele e.g. Fidelity for 401K or retirement investment are then approached with the survey results and requested to offer certain competitive benefit packages to the targeted prospective clients. These third party provider service and benefit packages comply with the requirements of the precise set of clients ascertained by the surveys described above.

All of the third party provider products may be managed on the computer devices such as those described with reference to in an on line environment i.e. connected to the network to which the integration facility may have access. As presently contemplated the third party service provider products may include at least the following services 

The integration facility may separate the products and into critical and non critical products. The system creates a variety of alternative integrated benefit packages of services selected from among the critical and non critical third party tier products and the business application tier products . These benefit packages are priced and offered for sale to clients. It should be noted that each third party service provider may have a different way of calculating the pricing structure for a specific service. Such calculation may be based upon such service provider s specific application of certain predetermined factors.

For example one health plan may be offered with a certain price quotation based upon that plan provider s own particular calculation derived using certain predefined factors whereas a different health plan provider may give a different price quotation for services offered based upon different calculations derived using certain other predefined factors. This may occur even though the services offered are identical. The certain predetermined factors may include state regulations plan provider s assessment of the client profiles and promotional services offered. Moreover many providers that offer one or more services to clients are able to provide accurate quotations to the clients only for individual services offered but not for a whole package of services and benefits provided by the aggregate of different service providers.

The illustrated system has the ability to provide a quotation for the entire panoply of services included in the benefits package. The pricing of benefit packages may be performed in a number of ways e.g. an arbitrary fixed price may be pre assigned to each benefits package. In another embodiment each service provider may provide to the system a list of factors used to establish a price quotation for the offered service and also provides the exact relationship between those factors on which the quotation calculation is based. The jurisdiction within which the client resides is among these factors. That is because each location and jurisdiction has laws and requirements different from those in other jurisdictions with respect to many of the offered insurance and other services.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention each third party provider may contribute or grant a cost calculating algorithm or a table relationship from which the cost of the offering may be derived. The customer is allowed to select a fixed benefits package by selecting all presented components or by picking and choosing a subset of these components. An affiliated algorithm is executed or a table relationship is used to derive the total cost of the selected components of the benefits package. This final price may be presented to the customer as a bid binding all providers for a set period of time.

The customer may choose from among the varied benefit packages offered using criteria such as cost flexibility range of services offered etc. In one embodiment for example the system may offer the clients a specific set of varying packages each comprising fixed benefits. Clients may then be free to select one most suitable benefits package from that fixed set. The client may not then mix and match from among the services offered. If the client desires to change the purchased benefits package to add or remove a feature in the embodiment being described the client may downgrade or up grade the whole package.

In another embodiment the customer may be given the ability to construct custom benefit packages from components offered in the business application products and offered in the third party service provider products . In this embodiment the customer may choose from among providers as well as among certain benefits and services offered.

After the benefit packages are purchased the services comprised within all the benefit package components are maintained and managed by the system . The customer interface tier allows potential and existing clients to access the system . This access may be achieved through a network for example the Internet. Access by each potential client may be managed by the integration facility which will be later described in detail with reference to . Any prospective client connecting to system through the user interface tier may be presented with a number of screens requesting information regarding the client s business and the structure of such business. This information is collected by the integration facility in the shared data database and used to determine the needs of the prospective client and to offer appropriate subset of products organized into benefit packages to serve these needs.

As shown in benefit packages best satisfying the needs and requirements of the potential client may be presented for purchase by the integration facility via the interface on the prospective client s device. Additional products may also be added to and stripped from the benefit package selected for purchase by the prospective client. After selecting the benefits package a price quote may be requested by the prospective client and presented by the integration facility . Moreover promotional and informational data may be provided by the integration facility .

Returning to another feature of the invention relates to the management of the benefits package selected by the client. The integration facility which will be described in detail with reference to below collects and shares the pertinent information about the user employee e.g. social security number name address birth date marital status children s names etc. This information is provided by each user employee to the system via the integration facility during the initial setup when the benefits package is purchased. This pertinent information is stored in the database . The integration facility will release only the data specific to whatever customer logs on i.e. the user employer or the employee based on information originally provided by both the user employer and the employee during set up and based on information provided during all subsequent sessions within the parameters of the options chosen by the user employer.

The interaction between the user and the system may be achieved through the use of any commonly used Web browser if the interchange is proceeding over the Internet where an interface screen is presented to the user who is the company owner employer or manager. As shown in the integration facility interactively and by anticipating certain life events provides advice and guidance information to each subscriber. Furthermore reminders of necessary business tasks are presented again triggered by any number of life events. An example of a life event may be the passing of December 31 which event indicates the end of the personal tax calendar year triggering the need to issue tax statements in time for the January 31 cutoff date and in time for the tax return filing day of April 15 in the U.S.A.

Returning back to the life events may also comprise the following triggering data information about the client s business employees suppliers governmental regulations client s financial standing childbirth hirings firings policy changes and other such events. The life event triggering data may be provided by the client on a continuous basis. When a life event triggers action the integration facility initiates appropriate actions in each of the products of the subscribed to benefits package possibly alerting the user employee to any outstanding HR functions that need to be performed.

Aside from tasks being performed automatically through the life events the user employee may request that a specific task be performed or allowed to be performed manually. Such tasks may include running of the payroll editing company messages displayed by the interface and editing the company s calendar.

For example if an employee is terminated the employer provides this updated information to the integration facility . The system will initiate the following events among others the payroll process will stop compensatory payments as well as unemployment and tax deductions for the benefit packages the health insurance benefit will terminate and an appropriate COBRA coverage will be issued and investment programs retirement 401K profit sharing will issue change requests and so on. At each step the employer or employee will be asked to enter certain information to effect these changes and to ensure that these changes are made smoothly. The system will prompt the employer to enter certain information and suggest additional actions that might be desired such as establishing outplacement services arranging for deletion of the employee from certain company benefits or promotions etc.

In another example if the employee notifies the system that he she has had a new baby by providing this information to the integration facility the system will prompt the employee to consider changes to the insurance coverage withholding of taxes and changes to investment retirement 401K profit sharing plans provided by the benefits package purchased by the employer. The system may actually guide the employee through these changes and effect them as requested. As time passes the system will be able to prompt the employee to consider additional options or actions based upon the changing nature of his her situation.

However should either an employee or an employer decide not to pursue any of the actions suggested by the system at the present time these suggested actions may be deferred to a later more convenient time. Suggestions may be placed in an In Box for later action. Should there be certain deadlines associated with a particular action item the system will flash a reminder at appropriate time intervals that the action must be taken soon. Further should a deadline to take certain action be imminent the system might prevent any further processing unless the suggested action is performed.

Where an interface screen is presented to the user who is the employee as shown in the integration facility interactively and by anticipating certain life events provides individualized advice and guidance information to each employee of the subscribing client. The provided advice and guidance is based upon the total information about the employer and the employee maintained in the shared data database . Furthermore a menu of available tasks that may be taken by the employee is presented or suggest.

The system will make an online company handbook available to the employees. Where the company employs workers in more than one state the online company handbook is individualized and the employee who is a resident of state A is shown laws and regulations pertaining to state A and the employee who is a resident of state B is shown laws and regulations pertaining to state B . Additionally some third party benefit providers do not service all states. Therefore substitute products will be supplied in such cases.

A customer assistance hotline will also be provided to help employees with their questions. Where the employee question concerns a third party product the call may be switched to the customer assistance hotline of that provider or the employee may be given the number to call.

The integration facility receives all inquiries coming from the employees life events generated by events in customers lives or reached according to the calendar e.g. a holiday taking place on a pay day whereby paychecks must be issued one day earlier. The integration facility initiates a security lookup to determine whether the particular customer is entitled to a particular requested or life event initiated action. If the determination is positive the integration facility originates action requests to the rest of the system and to the third party products if appropriate. Such action requests are based on customer provided information.

The integration facility will now be described with reference to . As an example please consider the situation where the customer submits a change of address request which is performed in step . In step the customer s privilege to perform such a transaction is verified. This verification is shown in . The security or authorization validation is first requested in step . In step the integration facility looks up the customer s user ID in the shared database . If in step it is determined that the user ID is invalid the negative validation is returned to step . In step encrypted password is submitted to a security server part of the integration server for validation. If in step it is determined that the password is invalid the negative validation is returned to step . Otherwise in step a decision is made to determine whether the customer is authorized to issue the requested transaction. Depending on that determination a negative or a positive validation is returned to step .

Returning to if access is denied in step the request is terminated and the customer is notified of the request termination. Otherwise in step the submitted information is validated and in step a determination is made if such information is valid. Here again if the information is invalid the request is terminated and the customer is notified of the request termination.

If the information was determined to be valid shared customer data is updated with the new information in step after which if in step a determination is made that the data update was unsuccessful the request is terminated and the customer is notified of the request failure and termination. In step the data is evaluated as to its effect on the customer s profile and to which parts of the system and third party products servers need to be updated. For example if the address change was that of a mailing address then all products which require such information need to be updated. If it is determined that additional products do not need to be updated then in step the customer is notified of the successful completion of his her request and the present transaction is completed.

If however additional products do require the informational update then in step the transactional tasks corresponding to each such product are initiated. In step a verification is made to determine if the customer subscribes to all of the products for which tasks were initiated in step . These tasks are divided into two lists one for critical products and the second for non critical. Critical and non critical products were discussed above in the Package Pricing section of this application. In step the critical tasks are prioritized.

In step the status of the transaction is logged and in step a determination of a success of the transaction is made. If unsuccessful in step a roll back of previous tasks initiated in step commences and is performed asynchronously i.e. not in any particular order in step after which the transaction is terminated. In step the synchronous processing of tasks initiated in step continues by returning to step if there are more tasks to process or by logging the completion status in step if there are no more tasks.

In step a verification is made to determine if the customer subscribes to all of the non critical products for which tasks were initiated in step . In step these tasks are prioritized and in step asynchronous tasks to perform the customer requested transaction are issued. Each task is performed by placing in step an update request in a queue and scheduling execution according to the requirements of the non critical products. In step queued transactions are executed at scheduled times. If in step no exceptions were detected in step the status of the executed transaction is logged. Otherwise if there were exceptions asynchronous tasks are initialized in step to notify customer service to perform in step manual follow up.

In step a determination is made if there are any more non critical services to transact with. If there are the processing returns to step otherwise in step the status is logged and the process is terminated.

Employees of the client companies access information concerning their personal company human resource information through the Web site.

The system is constructed with a multi tiered architecture. That is based on a broad set of characteristics each component or platform that performs a system function is designated to a given tier or layer. Though the devices within each of these layers share common attributes i.e. processes properties of data states of execution etc. they perform specific functional roles in support of a given business objective. Thus illustrates the various functional layers that are supported by the multi tier architecture and provides a sampling of the corresponding systems within each layer.

The Touch Point layer is the user interface front end to the overall system and thus is the point of interaction for clients as well as for internal constituencies such as developer personnel. The Touch Point layer may also be referred to as the application layer. The Touch Point layer renders to the user be the user an internal or external constituency a user friendly composite of the underlying processes and data. The device types that comprise interface touch points to the system include printer devices fax machines Web ports telephone interaction and personal digital assistant PDA access portals. Other device types that may interface with network data devices are also suitable touch points and permit a variety of access schemes. The telephone access may be provided for example by voice interaction and VOXML techniques known to those skilled in the art. Each permissible interface telephone Web access etc. supports the business logic defined by the processes of the Integration layer and the Business Application layer .

Validation of input fields against business rules prior to submitting transactions to the appropriate sub system. The business rules are stored within the data model for the entire system. That is the data model described further below implements the business rules as selected by the system developer. The point of entry validation feature also accounts for tiered dependencies across systems some data elements impact functional components differently from others.

Support for a rudimentary queue mechanism for the delivery of data based on defined triggers. The triggering sub system indexes data relationships and establishes an execution path to downstream components. The queues guarantee synchronized behavior and thus the reliable workflow.

Affords the employer employee users a high degree of modularity and flexibility in tailoring the ergonomics of their particular workspace.

This touch point characteristic relates to the intelligence built into the controls fields or events of the data model as illustrated by the processing described further below.

Each discrete application interface exhibits the same look and feel i.e. consistent navigation metaphors ergonomics help screens etc.

Though compelled to conform with a given vendor partner s design templates and schema the user interface of the system will preserve the logic primitives behind the process flow of the system as well as site and screen navigation metaphors.

The Infrastructure layer includes the various servers that receive user requests for operation including data entry and data retrieval. Thus servers must be provided for each type of data format that will be supported by the system such as Internet protocol telephone PBX service third party system access and the like. For example one user interface will be through the Internet which may be supported by a Web server or through a typical operating system interface such as the Windows NT operating system by Microsoft Corporation. Another data type may require a PBX interface for telephone service. Other particular data types that may be supported can include proprietary data types such as a CTI server for CTI data support products. The interaction between a client computer of the computer system via a given device of the Touch Point layer and the system servers of the Infrastructure layer is the initiating phase for any subsequent activity between the two parties. Thus one or more servers support each Touch Point device type. Each Infrastructure layer server implements data model business rules governing data capture and process flows.

A user request for a data operation is captured and passed as a message to the Integration Layer without specifying the ultimate destination i.e. the business application server that will fulfill the request. The servers of the Infrastructure layer and Integration layer preferably communicate using the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP network protocol. Domain Name resolution is handled by the Internet Service Provider ISP at the client computer access point to ensure fast resolution of IP addresses to the developer s Web site domain name . The infrastructure layer includes redundant Web servers and primary and backup servers for each component of the Integration layer and the Business Application layer .

The Integration layer is a common messaging utility that functions as an information bus to provide disparate software platforms with a common library of Application Programming Interfaces APIs from which to accommodate both Web and non Web server and presentation technologies. The Integration layer also acts as the plug in utility for all external service providers. As such it supports industry standard communication protocols DCOM CORBA Java etc . Thus external or third party service providers may choose from a variety of protocols through which they may communicate with the system . Thus the actions launched by the Integration layer engines may involve messages according to COM DCOM CORBA Java WAP secure socket and other protocols.

The Integration layer insulates each sub system or component in the Business Application layer from adjusting to changes with their peer systems. It ensures guaranteed properly timed and timely assembly of fragmented packets of information into atomic units of multi process communications. More particularly the Integration Layer includes a platform that provides a series of processing engines each of which supports a collection of agent processes. For example the Integration layer processing engines may implement processing of data categorized as either profiles actions channels or triggers.

Each instance of an Integration layer engine dispatches or launches agents or tasks based on its configuration and workload. The Integration layer platform knows to engage a particular agent process to execute a given task by referencing a data map or index of the various agents responsibilities. The Integration layer platform has well defined plug in interfaces from which to populate define information sources rules data elements administration tasks events and resulting actions.

The Business Application Layer contains the various applications or processing engines of the respective applications that perform the processing required to support a given business function. These application logic engines are responsible for performing the functions enforcing appropriate sequencing rules and determining the intermediate outcome for each of their processing steps. The applications are selected by the system developer and configured to provide particular characteristics and functionality as follows 

 1 To the extent possible each application complies with the functional and technical criteria described above.

 3 The Business Application layer will not allow an application to build its own utilities these services will be implemented and managed once in the system e.g. workflow messaging .

 4 Where additional functionality is needed subsystems are purchased where possible and integrated into this layer. Thus business information processing subsystems are delivered as components of the application layer implementing a building block approach to the system design.

 5 Wherever feasible each component is capitalized on existing platforms hardware and support infrastructure to take advantage of the economies of scale and to fully leverage the existing infrastructure.

 6 Each application will obtain data in response to requests on the fly from a common data store. Where this is not possible the Integration layer ensures synchronization.

The applications provided through the Business Application layer may be categorized as being either a transactional application a reference application or a decision support application. shows this division of applications in the Business Application layer and shows exemplary application types that fall into each category. For example the transactional applications provide transactional capabilities of the system. The output of the transactional applications could be provided to clients or third party companies as well as to downstream systems for further customer processing. To accomplish their objective transactional applications typically refer to or make use of the data administered by reference applications. The reference applications specialize in the management of information that is leveraged by other platforms throughout the end to end processes. The information and information flow managed by these systems tends to change infrequently yet require a complex set of business rules to ensure data transactional integrity. The transactional applications produce output that is warehoused in the Data layer and is analyzed by the decision support applications. The decision support applications also serve to clarify and quantify abstract relationships between data elements and histogram data in transactional and reference data stores.

The Data layer manages the relationship and integrity amongst and between vendor and partner data with the system metadata. The Data layer performs two different data storage functions. First the Data layer provides a common intermediary database that aggregates data from product partners. The product partners supply the business applications that are integrated by the system developer. Where necessary the intermediary database function provides a common semantic between dissimilar schemas of the business applications and performs a data normalization function. The intermediary database reflects the data model attributes as selected by the system developer. Normalization or automatic conversion from the common data store schema into the different data representations required by the business applications is inevitable. It is in fact required to assure consistency of all other layered interfaces.

The second functional aspect of the Data layer is to maintain operational data stores to support the client business applications. Each contains business rules governing data capture and basic process flows. Requests captured are passed as a message or as event object defining the properties of said data triggering the event and the operations allowed on that data to the appropriate engine to fulfill a given request. shows that in one embodiment the functions of the Data layer are provided by a Data Warehouse computer or process a Data Mart process a Data Transformation process and a Data Mining process.

The Partners layer involves systems of the companies who supply the business applications software and support interfaces between system users the system. For example some of the companies in the Partners layer comprise carriers such as common voice telephone service providers who provide a path to receive changes and provide communications between the Touch Point layer and the Infrastructure layer. That is the carriers simply transport data into and out of the system for use by the business application processes. Other participants in the Partners layer comprise vendors who provide business applications programs that are supported by the developer of the system . Other Partners layer participants comprise partner companies. The partner companies have a close and more pervasive relationship with the system constructed by the system developer. Thus the data model on which the system is constructed more closely reflects the business rules and data model employed by the systems of the partners as compared with the less closely aligned systems of the vendors.

The multiple tier architecture of the system described above is further illustrated in the drawing of network addressing scheme. The network diagram shows the public site the Web interface through which customers the employer companies and their employees gain access to the business applications described above. The connection of the system to the outside world is over the Internet and through a security firewall shown as two redundant firewall devices. Thus employers and their employees may submit requests for information about their respective information in the system or may simply want to obtain answers to questions or otherwise make inquiries through the public site. System partners also gain access over the Internet and through the firewall.

The server machines of the infrastructure layer next receive process such client requests and then interface with the system backbone after passing through a firewall machine. The carriers vendors and partners of the Partners layer connect through routers to the business applications and then to the system backbone. The business applications of the Business Application layer also are shown connected to the system backbone. Finally other various touch point devices are shown directly connected to the system backbone.

Security of the transactions is of vital importance to the system. shows a diagram of the security between external client machines and the machines that are internal to the system. First there is a known secure or trusted security gateway. The security gateway contains an external to internal security mapping module with integrated external E and internal I components. External customers being either employer personnel or their employees communicate using Internet protocol IP with the external component E of the security mapping module. The internal component I trusts the external component E to authenticate clients. The external component E trusts the internal component I to access the right service provider SP or trusted intermediary server to protect client identity and request data and to protect response data. The system developer uses the security gateway and external internal architecture to prevent external users clients from accessing internal service providers directly and then only via a controlled access path. External and internal security are separate domains though they supplement each other i.e. they may use the same or different security mechanisms.

The architecture and functionality described above is accessed through a Web interface that provides information to a client through the now familiar Web browser interface.

An employee to whom the client company does not wish to permit access for data handling business applications for example would see the data screen illustrated in . This display page is labeled Employee Work Center . shows the type of data that may be viewed by an employee for this payroll data page such as residence address employee number social security number and the like. The vertical frame along the left side of the display page shows other menu items for the employee to call up.

The business rules implemented by the system incorporate automatic recognition of and processing for events that occur to employees and to companies. That is triggering events such as user entry of data changes or outside occurrences such as particular calendar dates will automatically initiate database processes. These triggering events may comprise for example changes in income as a result of promotions or pay raises necessitating a change in payroll processing and perhaps changes in tax consequences. Other changes may comprise an employee change in residence location or the addition of a new child or a change in the employee s health situation. The system automatically detects and responds to such events and launches processes that take action or elicit any additional information that is needed to maintain the data store of the system with current information. After any updates to the system data store are completed the updated data will be immediately available to any business application that requests the data. That is the Data layer of the system maintains a central data store for employee data to provide a repository from which data is provided as needed in response to a request by a business application.

The Data layer processes that retrieve the data from the central store for a business application will automatically determine any different format that might be required by the business application and will make the data conversion. Thus data is not converted and stored into the various different formats that might be needed by each of the business applications. Rather data conversion is executed on the fly and does not occur until a business application has requested the data. For example an employee may change residence address. There may be many of the business applications that require employee address and each of them may need the employee address in a slightly different format. The system does not store a differently formatted employee address for each business application that is used in the system. Instead the system stores one version of the employee address. When an application requires employee address the system simply goes to the central data store and a process automatically formats the address data into a form that is acceptable to the requesting application.

As noted above the data models of the system reflect the business rules and methodology employed by the system. Accordingly the system data model includes an event data structure that models the company its employees and the events that transpire in their lives and that require data updates . is labeled Company Community and illustrates the data model or data objects that are related to events. In the relational data base model of the system each of the boxes illustrated in correspond to tables of related data types with data cells that may be shared in common among multiple tables.

Each User Event is in turn associated with a User Event Task and a User Event Action. The User Event Task is analogous to the Event Task but for a particular individual employee. Thus the Event Task table is a list of data items that correspond to data items that are affected by a given event of the Event table while the User Event Task table is a list of event tasks that need to be changed for a particular user employee in response to a particular User Event. Similarly the User Event Action is analogous to the Event Action but for a particular employee so that the User Event Action table is a list of data actions that need to be performed for a given User Event that occurs to a particular employee.

Thus the system is driven by triggering events that initiate data processes to update the data store thus ensuring that business processes that receive requested data through the Data layer will receive updated information. is a flow diagram that illustrates the processing of the system in response to such triggering events.

In the first operation indicated by the flow diagram box numbered the system detects a triggering event. As noted above the triggering event may be an automatically detected event such as a calendar year change signifying the end of a tax year for example or the triggering event may be a user entered event such as an additional dependent due to the birth of a child or a change in residence which may necessitate changes in state tax computation and other regulatory adjustments in addition to a change in the data store entry for the employee s address . Processes of the Data layer attend to detecting and recognizing such triggering events.

Next represented by the flow diagram box numbered the system determines the affected data records. For example processes of the Data layer will detect that an employee has entered a new address indicating a change in residence and will automatically determine that the new state of residence will require different tax computation and changes in health care coverage and the like. Similarly processes of the Data layer will detect that the end of the calendar year has passed and will automatically initiate computation of tax calculations and will automatically generate tax forms and other documentation necessary to provide for each employee.

In some cases the system may need to obtain additional information from the employee. The system will automatically query the employee for such information as indicated by the flow diagram box numbered . Thus when an employee at the user interface screen indicates that the employee has an additional dependent to report the system will automatically generate a query screen that requests the information needed by the system to update that employee s records. For example the system will automatically request the dependent s name age sex birth date and so forth. Any such additional information is stored into the data store of the system as represented by the flow diagram box numbered . In this way the system automatically updates the data store of the Data layer so that all data records tables that are affected by a triggering event are kept current.

After the data is updated and the processing of box is completed the system is ready to respond to business application requests for data with current information. As noted above a business application may request a data record in response to an employee query or an authorized user query from an appropriate user interface screen. The Data layer receives the data request determines the data records that contain relevant information and retrieves the requisite data from the system data store. This processing is represented by the flow diagram box numbered . The Data layer then reformats or converts the retrieved data into a format that is compatible with the data schema of the requesting business application. This processing is represented by the flow diagram box numbered . At the flow diagram box numbered the system Data layer then provides the converted data to the requesting business application. As discussed above the data requests to which the Data layer responds may comprise for example a business application that is executing automatic processing such as generating payroll checks or that is responding to user requests such as showing an employee the health care insurance coverage on file for the employee .

In this way the system provides a human resource HR management system that integrates business applications from a variety of sources and provides a hosted Web site interface and subscription service through which employees of subscribing companies may update and retrieve their data and may be redirected to Web sites of vendor or partner companies who provide the actual specialized HR processing for the companies. Thus the system provides a network implementation of HR services that is easily scalable between relatively small companies who want the latest HR services but cannot afford the cost of developing a unique system solution with a consulting firm and cannot afford the cost of more sophisticated and complex packages from the large software vendors.

The system developer then provides network communications to one or more third party providers of a second set of business applications thereby completing the suite of business applications determined by the system developer as appropriate to be offered to the client companies. The third party business applications thus are not hosted by the system developer but rather the clients of the system developer will be redirected to the third party network sites for such business application processing. This operation is represented by the flow diagram box numbered . The system developer then provides a network interface from the suite of applications to the client companies and the respective company employees so they may access the first and second set of business applications thereby comprising an integrated human resource benefits package. The network interface may comprise for example an Internet domain Web site from which users may view display pages from any conventional Web browser program. This operation is represented by the flow diagram box numbered .

As a final operation of the process represented by box the system developer configures a data store at the system developer Web site according to business applications selected by the respective client. That is each client may select business applications to be offered to its employees and then the system processing will configure the data store for employees of that client to implement that selection. For example one client company may select a dental health insurance business application for its employees while another client company may decide not to select the dental health insurance. The system will configure the respective data stores by eliciting information from employees of the first client company to populate its data store for information to be used by the dental health insurance business application but will not elicit such information from employees of the second client company when the data store of those employees is configured.

If desired the data configuration process may include a determination of pricing of the integrated benefits package to the client company and its employees. This price determination preferably binds the third party providers to provide the second set of remotely hosted business applications for a set period of time thereby insulating the client company and its employees from uncertainty over continued availability of these components of the integrated system. The pricing may be automatically configured into the data store and system processing of the system. For example referring to the first client with dental health insurance and second client described above it is anticipated that the first set of business applications of the system developer will include employee payroll and tax filing processing among others. Therefore if an employee of the first client company elects to receive dental health insurance coverage then the system will configure the data store for those employees of the client company by eliciting the proper information and will automatically deduct an appropriate amount of funds from payroll checks for the electing employees to account for funding the dental health insurance. Other appropriate processing may be carried out such as any special tax filings that may be needed as a result of the employee s dental health insurance election. The employees of the second client company which did not offer dental health insurance will not be subjected to data queries to elicit data store information related to dental coverage and their payroll processing will not include dental health insurance coverage payroll deductions. Such configuration processing is transparent to the client companies and to their employees so that the mixture of business applications offered to multiple client companies and their respective employees through the on line network access appear as a single integrated product offering.

Because the payroll processing business application is installed on the system developer s network site the automatic payroll deduction tax filing and other such processing is easily implemented in an efficient and secure manner. Other data store information for remotely hosted or processed third party business applications will be elicited and delivered to the respective third party providers in accordance with client company offerings and employee elections. The payroll processing may be implemented pursuant to processing such as offered by for example the company called Performance Software Inc. of Elmwood Park Ill. USA. The tax filing processing may be implemented in accordance with processing such as offered by for example the company called Payroll Tax People Inc. see www.payrolltaxpeople.com . Other offerings that provide similar functionality are suitable and will occur to those skilled in the art.

Thus the present invention provides an integrated business process and system for remotely managing business and employee administration services. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be carried out in other ways and practiced by other than the described embodiments yet not departing from the spirit and essential characteristics depicted herein. The present embodiments therefore should be considered in all respects as illustrative and the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

