---

title: Alkene hydrofunctionalization reactions
abstract: A reductive cross coupling reaction process for functionalization of a nucleophilic alkene can be achieved. The nucleophilic alkene and a nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound can be reacted in the presence of an oxidizable alcohol and a suitable catalyst to form a reductive coupling product. Various additives can also be useful to refine the process such as by mitigating certain undesirable intermediates, facilitating specific site selectivity for various substitutions or reaction sites, etc. Chiral additives can be optionally used which act to provide asymmetric catalysis, e.g. allow for regioselective and stereoselective production of reductive coupling products. A reductive cross coupling pathway can include oxidizing the oxidizable alcohol to form a catalyst hydride. The nucleophilic alkene can be inserted into the catalyst hydride to form a catalyst-alkyl intermediate. Further, the catalyst-alkyl intermediate can be transmetallized with the nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound to form a transmetallated intermediate. The catalyst can be reductively eliminated to form the reductive coupling product and a reduced catalyst. Finally, the reduced catalyst can be oxidized under aerobic conditions, for example with oxygen, to form the oxidized catalyst and subsequent repetition through the cyclic pathway.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08088346&OS=08088346&RS=08088346
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 08088346
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 937 284 filed Jun. 25 2007 and which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under NIH Grant No. GM63540 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates generally to the field of chemical synthesis and more specifically to coupling reactions used to functionalize alkenes. Accordingly the present invention involves the fields of chemistry and reaction engineering.

Over the past several decades the development of transition metal catalyzed processes has revolutionized approaches to and implementation of target synthesis. As a primary example palladium 0 catalyzed cross coupling of an electrophilic organic compound generally compounds containing carbon halogen bonds and a nucleophilic organometallic reagent has emerged as a powerful method to construct carbon carbon bonds. In fact cross coupling reactions are now relied upon for the synthesis of materials pharmaceuticals and natural products. Mechanistically these reactions are thought to proceed by initial Pdpromoted oxidative addition of the electrophilic organic compound RX to yield an oxidized species R Pd X . This step is typically independent of the nucleophilic organometallic cross coupling partner. By definition one of the cross coupling partners must be able to oxidize Pdto Pdthereby limiting the potential scope of these ubiquitous transformations. As such reactions using palladium catalyzed cross coupling continued to be sought through ongoing research and development

It has been recognized that the ability to access R Pd X via alternative routes specifically using substrates that need not oxidize Pdto Pd can considerably enhance the versatility of Pd catalyzed cross coupling reactions. In accordance with the present invention a reductive cross coupling reaction process for functionalization of a nucleophilic alkene can be achieved. In particular the nucleophilic alkene and a nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound can be reacted in the presence of an oxidizable alcohol and a suitable catalyst to form a reductive coupling product.

Thus various aspects of the present invention have been outlined generally so that the detailed description that follows may be better understood and appreciated. Further this summary is not intended to be limiting but is rather instructive for understanding of the appended claims of associated detailed description. Departure from the examples provided in terms of specific compounds as well as alterations may be had without departing from the scope of the invention circumscribed by the appended claims.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It must be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an additive includes one or more of such additives reference to a reaction includes reference to one or more of such events and reference to introducing includes reference to one or more of such steps.

As used herein the term substantially or substantial refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example a composition that is substantially free of electrophilic coupling partners would either completely lack such compounds or so nearly completely lack such that the relevant effect would be the same as if it completely lacked the same. In other words a composition that is substantially free of an ingredient or element may still contain such an item as long as there is no substantially measurable difference on the result of interest.

As used herein the term about is used to provide flexibility to a numerical range endpoint by providing that a given value may be a little above or a little below the endpoint. The degree of flexibility of this term can be dictated by the particular variable and would be within the knowledge of those skilled in the art to determine based on experience and the associated description herein.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 micron to about 5 microns should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 micron to about 5 microns but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3.5 and 4 and sub ranges such as from 1 3 from 2 4 and from 3 5 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value. Furthermore such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described. As an example the term about also includes exactly consistent with the above guidance and without unduly limiting equivalents which would otherwise be available.

As a general guideline the present invention can include a reductive cross coupling reaction process for functionalization of a nucleophilic alkene. In particular the nucleophilic alkene and a nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound can be reacted in the presence of an oxidizable alcohol and a suitable catalyst to form a reductive coupling product. Specifically the present invention provides methods systems and compositions using a reductive cross coupling reaction process for functionalization of nucleophilic alkenes using an oxidizable alcohol and a suitable catalyst.

A reductive cross coupling reaction wherein R Pd X originates from a nucleophilic alkene a common and attractive starting material in organic synthesis instead of an electrophilic organic reagent is provided. Based on Pd catalyzed alcohol and olefin oxidations this approach can be accomplished by a tandem alcohol oxidation olefin functionalization sequence. Specifically and without being bound to any particular theory oxidation of an alcohol solvent in this case 2 propanol with a Pd catalyst A can lead to the formation of a Pd hydride B as shown in . Insertion of the olefin into the Pd hydride will yield a Pd alkyl intermediate C or C . Transmetallation to form D and subsequent reductive elimination provides the reductive coupling product as well as the reduced catalyst E. Aerobic oxidation of Pdto Pdcompletes the catalytic cycle. The reductive coupling product contains a new sphybridized carbon atom which is significantly more challenging to incorporate than sp or sp hybridized carbons resulting from conventional cross coupling type reactions. Many pitfalls were anticipated in developing this reductive cross coupling reaction including the possibility of competitive oxidative Heck products formed by initial transmetallation of the organometallic reagent with a Pdcatalyst . As such the present invention describes the design and development of a Pd catalyzed reductive cross coupling reaction of alkenes and organostannanes coupled to the aerobic oxidation of a simple alcohol.

A reductive cross coupling reaction process for functionalization of a nucleophilic alkene can comprise reacting the nucleophilic alkene and a nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound in the presence of an oxidizable alcohol and a catalyst to form a reductive coupling product. Each of these components can be carefully chosen based on the following summary and detailed description.

The nucleophilic alkene can be chosen based on the desired final product as substantially the entire molecule is incorporated into the reductive coupling product. Suitable nucleophilic terminal alkenes can have the general formula 

In addition to considerations of interference with the cross coupling reactions nucleophilic alkenes can be suitable as long as they do not cause undesirable side reactions as described in more detail below. In one specific aspect the nucleophilic alkene can be selected from the group consisting of polycyclic aromatic alkenes monocyclic aromatic alkenes heterocyclic aromatic alkenes non aromatic alkenes and combinations thereof.

As the second contributor of the cross coupling reaction a nucleophilic cross coupling partner can be chosen having the desired functional groups to be associated with the nucleophilic alkene. Although a wide variety of cross coupling partners can be suitable non limiting examples of such materials can include organostannanes organozinc reagents organosilanes boronic acid derivatives and combinations thereof. In one specific aspect of the present invention the nucleophilic cross coupling partner can be an organostannane. Although relative quantities can vary the nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound can be present in approximate stoichiometric amounts.

One particular aspect of the present invention is the presence of an oxidizable alcohol which acts as a hydrogen source during the desired reactions among other benefits. Almost any oxidizable alcohol which does not interfere with the cross coupling reaction can be useful. However as a general rule the oxidizable alcohol can be a simple C1 C10 straight or branched alcohol. Non limiting examples of suitable oxidizable alcohols can include isopropyl alcohol C1 C5 straight or branched alcohols primary or secondary benzylic alcohols and combinations thereof. In one currently desirable aspect the oxidizable alcohol can be isopropyl alcohol. The amount of oxidizable alcohol is sufficient to drive the cross coupling reaction predominantly and preferably substantially exclusively along a reductive pathway rather than an oxidative pathway e.g. Heck pathway. Acceleration of the oxidation of the alcohol can be accomplished by addition of exogenous bases. As such the present processes described herein can further include an exogenous base. In one embodiment the exogenous base can be without limitation sparteine potassium tert butoxide triethylamine H nig s base Tr ger s base 2 6 lutidine 1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU any amine bases including tertiary cyclic aromatic any inorganic base such as KOiPr NaOiPr KOEt NaOEt CsCO KCO KHCO NaCO CsF CuF CuCl Cu OAc . and mixtures thereof. Although exact proportions can vary from system to system as a general guideline the oxidizable alcohol can be present in generous stoichiometric excess.

The reactions of the present invention are catalytically driven via a suitable catalyst. Non limiting examples of suitable catalysts can include palladium cerium rhodium platinum cobalt ruthenium nickel and compounds combinations intermetallics and alloys thereof. In one specific aspect of the present invention the catalyst can be a palladium catalyst. For example the palladium catalyst can be provided using Pd sparteine Cl. In yet another alternative the catalyst can be supported by a suitable catalyst support material. In one embodiment the palladium catalyst has the following structure 

In connection with the present invention various additives can be useful to refine the process such as by mitigating certain undesirable intermediates facilitating specific site selectivity for various substitutions or reaction sites etc. In some embodiments the step of reacting can further include an additive which is a peroxide suppression agent or a chiral additive. A peroxide suppression agent such as MnOcan be useful in some cases. Of particular interest are additives which act to provide asymmetric catalysis e.g. allow for regioselective and stereoselective production of reductive coupling products. This can be particularly advantageous in the area of synthesis of pharmaceuticals where stereoisomers and enantiomers can exhibit dramatically different biological activity. Suitable chiral additives can include but are not limited to heterocycle derived oxazolines Bu quinox chiral phosphines chiral tertiary amines chiral N heterocyclic carbenes hindered tertiary amines carbonate bases and combinations thereof. In one specific aspect of the present invention the chiral additive can be Bu quinox.

Regardless of the use of a chiral additive the reductive coupling products of the present invention can include an sphybridized carbon linking the reductive coupling product together. Specifically the sphybridized carbon can correspond to a carbon of the reactive alkene carbon pair in the nucleophilic alkene. This results in a substantially increased ability to control formation of specific isomers whether structural enantiomeric or stereoisomeric.

Although the specific mechanism can be adjusted in accordance with the principles of the present invention one embodiment follows a reductive cross coupling pathway. Such a reductive cross coupling pathway can include oxidizing the oxidizable alcohol to form a catalyst hydride. For example in one embodiment the step of oxidizing the oxidizable alcohol to form a catalyst hydride can be by the following reaction schematic 

The reductive coupling products formed by the process of the present invention can provide highly useful starting materials for synthesis of various compounds such as but not limited to biologically active compounds specialty compounds and the like. Such reductive coupling products can also be optionally highly optically isomerically pure and can form substantially enantiopure products and in some cases predominantly one enantiomer i.e. enantioenriched.

Additionally the present processes described herein can be conducted under conditions sufficient to minimize reaction along an oxidative Heck reaction pathway or even substantially eliminate reaction along an oxidative Heck reaction pathway. In one embodiment the minimization can be quantitatively measured by producing an oxidative Heck reaction product of less than 5 yield.

The present invention provides for reductive coupling products that can be formed by the processes described herein. Additionally a reactor system can include a nucleophilic alkene a nucleophilic cross coupling partner compound an oxidizable alcohol and a catalyst.

While the following examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

Careful selection of the catalyst and solvent can facilitate alcohol oxidation and avoid secondary reactions of the solvent with the olefin. Therefore Pd sparteine Cl which has previously shown to be a robust catalyst for both olefin and alcohol oxidations was selected as a particularly suitable catalyst. An inexpensive solvent 2 propanol was chosen since secondary alcohols are good substrates for alcohol oxidation and are less likely to undergo Pd catalyzed reactions with olefins directly. A styrene alkene substrate was initially evaluated due to the inability of the alkene to isomerize and PhSnBuwas used as the initial cross coupling partner because additives are not required to facilitate transmetallation of organostannanes.

A time course analysis of the reaction revealed a significant retardation of the rate as the reaction progressed 50 conversion of 1a at 2 h 65 conversion at 10 h indicating either catalyst decomposition or inhibition. One possible inhibitor is sparteine N oxide which can be formed by oxidation of sparteine with HO a product of Oreduction. To test our hypothesis two experiments were performed with added 20 mol sparteine N oxide at two different concentrations of sparteine. In both cases a similar decrease in the conversion of 1a was observed compare entries 4 6 which is consistent with a detrimental effect of sparteine N oxide entry 6 . Therefore MnOwas evaluated as an additive to disproportionate HO. Excitingly addition of 75 mol MnOproduced 3a in 81 GC yield at nearly complete conversion entry 7 . Finally as a control both MnOand sparteine N oxide were added with results similar to the absence of MnO entry 8 . To further probe the role of MnO ESI MS was used to analyze the reaction mixtures for the presence of sparteine N oxide. With added MnO the ratio of peak heights which are dependent on ionization potential and do not directly reflect the absolute amount of each species of sparteine N oxide to sparteine was found to be 0.50 compared to 0.64 in the absence of MnO a 28 difference. This is consistent with MnOacting as a scavenger of HO.

Another issue observed upon scaling the reaction was poor conversion of 1a which was attributed to catalyst decomposition presumably due to poor mass transport of O entry 9 . Raising the pressure of Ofrom balloon 1.1 atm to 25 psi 1.7 atm improved the reaction outcome entry 10 . Even with the increased Opressure MnOwas still required to achieve effective catalysis compare entries 10 11 .

With conditions optimized for this embodiment the initial scope of the Pd catalyzed reductive coupling was explored. The experimental data shows that the electronic nature of the arylstannane has minimal impact on the yield of the reaction Table 2 entries 1 7 . Substitution ortho on either the styrene or the arylstannane is also tolerated Table 2 entries 4 and 8 . A styrene containing a halogen exhibited high chemoselectivity for the reductive coupling process wherein no products arising from a Stille type coupling were observed Table 2 entry 5 . Acid sensitive groups can also be incorporated Table 2 entries 6 and 7 and it should be noted that high regioselectivity 25 1 was observed for all cases in contrast to many of the reported Lewis acid catalyzed hydroarylation reactions. Another aspect of the present process provides an alkene reductive coupling with an organostannane which allows for expansion to reaction types previously not accessible using reported hydroarylation methods. To this end several vinyl stannanes were tested under the optimized conditions Table 2 entries 8 11 . Stannanes containing enol ethers were especially competent coupling partners highlighted by the ability to perform an overall hydroacylation reaction Table 2 entry 10 .

To the initial mechanistic hypothesis provided in two isotopic labeling experiments were performed to determine the origin of the proton incorporated into the product . When using CH CHOD as the solvent no deuterium was incorporated into the product ruling out the involvement of acidic protons in the process. However when using CH CDOH as solvent 92 of the products contained a single deuterium atom as a mixture of isotopomers 5a and 5b. These data support the mechanistic hypothesis that a coupled alcohol oxidation to form a Pd hydride is followed by insertion of the olefin into the Pd hydride . The production of two isotopomers supports the reversible formation of both intermediates C and C from B but the observation of a single product regioisomer suggests only C leads to product. A possible explanation for this is that intermediate C can be stabilized by forming a benzyl species when using a styrenyl substrate. A diene substrate was tested which can be similarly stabilized via a allyl species . This reaction proceeded modestly to yield the reductive coupling product as a single regioisomer and diastereomer. Unfortunately simple olefins such as decene did not undergo the reductive coupling reaction under these conditions although conditions may be adjusted and optimized to allow use of decene.

The process of the present invention offers a fundamentally different approach to Pd catalyzed cross coupling reactions. In this process Pdis not oxidized by the organic substrate but the requisite Pdorganometallic species is accessed via a tandem Pd catalyzed alcohol oxidation to produce a Pd hydride followed by alkene functionalization. This contrasting approach allows for the facile highly regioselective formation of sp spcarbon carbon bonds with various alkenes and organostannane derivatives. Further this reductive coupling reaction can be performed under aerobic conditions wherein the reduction of Ois necessary to complete the catalytic cycle.

The present invention uses organometallic reagents coupled with an alcohol oxidation to provide entry into a regioselective hydroarylation reaction of olefins. Additionally considering the substantial number of organostannane and boronic acid derivatives readily accessible successful method development will allow access to diverse potentially biologically relevant structures which would be difficult to prepare rapidly otherwise.

Based on initial results and the mechanistic hypothesis asymmetric catalysis can be achieved in accordance with the present invention. There are no reported intermolecular enantioselective hydroarylation reactions of simple olefins with the exception of norbornene. Therefore the development of asymmetric variants will allow rapid entry into enantiomerically enriched products that are otherwise difficult to access. Two steps can particularly influence asymmetric induction insertion of the olefin into the Pd hydride and rate of transmetallation of the resulting diastereomers as shown in Scheme 3.

A major question is whether diastereomers A scheme 3 and B scheme 3 equilibrate via hydride elimination. If rapid equilibration occurs the relative rates of transmetallation will determine the enantioselective outcome. Chiral ligands are anticipated to have a considerable impact on these rates. Evaluation of a bis oxazoline EtCH Box see above under modified conditions led to an observed enantiomeric excess of 72 for 50 scheme 3 . Further optimization by ligand modification is anticipated see example ligand list above .

The Suzuki reaction which couples an organohalide and an organoboron compound is a very attractive cross coupling reaction for use in the synthesis of natural products and pharmaceuticals. This is mainly due to the excellent functional group compatibility and ease of preparation of boronic acid derivatives as well as the low toxicity of the boron byproducts. The mechanistic details have been widely investigated and the reaction is thought to proceed through oxidative addition of the organohalide R X to Pdto form R Pd X followed by transmetallation of the organoborane R B OR . The resulting R Pd Rintermediate undergoes reductive elimination leading to product formation. An exogenous base is required to activate the boronic acid derivative for transmetallation which is proposed to occur through a four centered transition state Scheme 1a .

An alternative route to generate the requisite R Pd X intermediate utilizes an alkene as a synthon for an alkyl halide. Specifically styrene derivatives and organostannanes undergo a Pd catalyzed reductive cross coupling reaction in isopropyl alcohol IPA under an aerobic atmosphere to yield the hydroarylation product 3a in 76 yield Scheme 1b . The proposed mechanism proceeds via initial oxidation of the alcoholic solvent to generate a Pd hydride E which reacts with the alkene to yield Pd alkyl F. Subsequent transmetallation forms G and reductive elimination yields the reductive coupling product and Pd H which is oxidized by Oto regenerate the active catalyst D . As discussed above boronic acids offer significant practical advantages in cross coupling reactions with respect to organostannane compounds. However the development of a reductive coupling of alkenes with boronic acid derivatives was thought to be a significant challenge as compared to the use of organostannanes. The reason for this is the requirement of a strong exogenous base to facilitate transmetallation which will simultaneously affect the rate of alcohol oxidation Scheme 1b . The addition of base can also promote a base mediated reductive elimination of the proposed Pd hydride intermediate E to form Pd. Thus the development of a catalyst system for the reductive coupling of arylboronic esters and styrenes along with studies that highlight the mechanistic complexity of this reaction is provided herein.

By using the reaction conditions developed for the Pd catalyzed reductive coupling with organostannanes and the commercially available boronic acid PhB OH the desired hydroarylation product 3a was observed in 11 yield GC as a greater than 25 1 ratio of regioisomers Table 5 entry 1 . However catalyst decomposition and competitive initial transmetalations was observed which generates the oxidative Heck product 4 . The poor stability of Pd sparteineCl under these conditions prompted us to identify a more robust catalyst system. As previously discussed Pd complexes with N heterocyclic carbine NHC ligands are excellent catalysts for alcohol oxidation in which high turnover numbers are achieved at low concentrations of O. Also Pd NHC complexes have been widely employed in a variety of cross coupling reactions. Thus Pd IiPr Cl was evaluated by using sparteine sp as an exogenous base and an improved ratio of hydroarylation to Heck reaction was observed with only a 63 conversion of the substrate Table 5 entry 2 . The addition of tBuOK led to additional improvement in the ratio of 3a to 4 Table 5 entry 3 . The low conversion of these reactions may arise from PhB OH inhibiting the catalysis exogenous acid can decrease the rate of alcohol oxidation. Therefore the pinacol derived phenylboronic ester PE was submitted to the reaction conditions with both sp and tBuOK which led to a 30 yield GC of 3a Table 5 entry 4 . The reaction was monitored by GC methods and PE was fully consumed before the reaction of the olefin was complete suggesting that remaining 1a undergoes an undesired reaction that does not involve the boronic ester. On the basis of this hypothesis the amount of PE was increased to 2.5 equivalents to produce 3a in 64 yield GC with a 17 1 ratio of 3a to 4 Table 5 entry 5 .

To further optimize the reaction ethylene glycol derived boronic ester EG which was expected to undergo faster transmetalation because of its smaller size was submitted to the reaction conditions and a 49 yield GC of 3a was measured after 4 hours Table 5 entry 6 . Evaluating other NHC ligands revealed that the combination of SiPr and EG produces 3a in 68 yield within 8 hours Table 5 entry 7 . Interestingly when propanediol derived boronic ester PD was used under the same reaction conditions a 32 yield of 3a was observed demonstrating the sensitivity of the transformation to the nature of the boronic ester Table 5 entry 8 . Additional optimization of the reaction conditions including an increase to three equivalents of EG produces 3a in 91 yield GC with Pd SiPr Cl as the catalyst these conditions were found to be the optimal conditions for the transformation Table 5 entry 9 . Pd IiPr Cl is also a proficient catalyst under these conditions yielding 3a in 89 yield GC Table 5 entry 10 . Interestingly under these conditions Pd sp Cl is also an effective catalyst Table 5 entry 11 . Finally the reaction was performed under the optimal conditions without sp leading to rapid Pdmetal precipitation with only 2 conversion of 1a Table 5 entry 12 . In contrast performing the reaction without tBuOK leads to a 78 yield GC of 3a suggesting that the combination of both sp and tBuOK is required to achieve excellent catalysis Table 5 entry 13 . However the use of more tBuOK led to diminished yields of 3a.

Diaryl methane units are prevalent in biologically active small molecules and this method can allow the rapid highly regioselective synthesis of this functionality. To explore the scope of the reductive coupling of boronic esters and styrenes the above conditions were used to synthesize a variety of diaryl methane containing products Table 6 . All of the reductive coupling reactions are highly regioselective 25 1 and the reactions of simple coupling partners give high yields 78 91 of isolated diaryl methane containing products Table 6 entries 1 3 . The results demonstrate that substrates containing acid sensitive functional groups are stable to the reductive coupling reaction conditions for example acetal protecting groups which are readily removed upon work up are compatible with the reaction conditions Table 6 entries 5 7 . Arylboronic esters containing electron donating groups react more slowly thereby requiring a higher catalyst loading Table 6 entries 8 and 9 and ortho substitution on the arylboronic acid is tolerated Table 6 entry 10 . The ester functionality is also compatible however an increase in sp is required to achieve a 63 yield of 3k Table 6 entry 11 . On the basis of our previous mechanistic hypothesis that the formation of a benzyl intermediate is responsible for the outstanding regioselectivity a diene substrate which can form a similar allyl species was evaluated and yielded the reductive coupling product 31 in 41 yield as a greater than 25 1 mixture of regioisomers Table 6 entry 12 . Under these conditions both vinylboronic esters and simple alkenes which rapidly isomerize do not undergo an effective reductive coupling reaction. Even though a chiral additive sp is used less than 5 enantiomer excess ee is observed for the product.

After exploring the scope there were three mechanistic questions to address 1 what is the efficiency of alcohol oxidation as compared to product formation 2 why are three equivalents of the arylboronic ester required for good product yields and 3 why is exogenous sp required for catalysis To investigate the first question a higher molecular weight alcohol sec BuOH was used as the solvent in order to use GC analysis to effectively measure the amount of ketone being formed via alcohol oxidation. A time course analysis of the reaction was performed and the GC yields of the hydroarylation product 3a and butan 2 one 5 as well as the percent styrene 1a remaining were plotted as a function of time . Initially the yield of 3a and 5 are equivalent until 60 conversion which is consistent with the oxidation of one alcohol directly yielding product. This also suggests that the Pd hydride formed via alcohol oxidation reacts with the alkene faster than it reductively eliminates. In contrast as the reaction progresses to higher substrate conversion the yield of the 5 increases at a rate different than that of product formation. This shows as the concentration of alkene decreases the Pd hydride can undergo other competitive reactions including reductive elimination. The GC yield of 3a was 78 in sec BuOH as compared to 91 in IPA indicating a modest solvent dependence.

The next question investigated was why are three equivalents of 2a required Therefore the fate of the boronic ester was investigated as the reaction progressed . Over an equivalent of 2a was consumed at 30 minutes after which a relatively linear decrease in concentration was observed the scatter can be attributed to hydrolysis of 2a on silica before GC analysis . Besides the hydroarylation product 3a two major byproducts biphenyl 6 and phenol 7 derived from the boronic ester were observed. A 10 GC yield of biphenyl the product of oxidative boronic acid homocoupling is formed at 2 h but a 14 yield of biphenyl 0.28 equiv. of 2a consumed is observed overall. Phenol is the major byproduct of this reaction and is formed consistently throughout the reaction 1.3 equiv. of 2a . Phenol is likely formed from the reaction of the boronic ester with HOformed from the reduction of Oduring catalyst regeneration. Together these data account for the undesired pathways that consume the excess arylboronic ester required.

The final mechanistic question was the role s of sp considering that performing the reaction without exogenous sp leads to poor catalysis. Several functions of sp can be envisioned including acting as a ligand to stabilize Pdduring catalyst regeneration acting as a ligand on Pdduring the reductive coupling process and or to break up the dimeric Pd SiPr Cl complex. The first two roles are difficult to directly probe however an experiment was performed to investigate the feasibility of sp breaking up the dimer complex. The experiment involved dissolving Pd SiPr Cl and 2 equiv. of sp in 1 2 dichloroethane DCE . The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h . An aliquot of the mixture was analyzed by ESI MS. Excitingly the major Pd complex observed in solution corresponds to Pd SiPr sp Cl m z MH 801.3 . Based upon the trans geometry of related Pd NHC pyridine Clcomplexes the formation of complex 8 in which the NHC ligand is trans to the monodendate sp ligand is a proposed mechanism. Unfortunately attempts to isolate complex 8 only led to the Pd SiPr Cl complex and free sp. This shows that complex 8 is in equilibrium with the dimer. It should be noted that Pd sparteine Clis not observed by ESI MS. Interestingly other simple amine bases do not lead to an effective catalytic system for reductive coupling. Possible explanations for this are the large size of sp facilitates ligand dissociation or the free nitrogen of sp could act as an intramolecular base.

In conclusion a catalyst system has been developed for a highly regioselective reductive coupling of arylboronic esters and styrenes under aerobic conditions to yield a variety of diaryl methine containing products. The mechanism couples an alcohol oxidation with C C bond formation where an alkene can be thought of as an alkyl halide in classic cross coupling reactions. Careful analysis of the reaction progress reveals why excess arylboronic ester is required for effective catalysis where phenol formed via oxidation of the boronic ester with HOfrom Oreduction is the major byproduct. Also the requirement of two bases sparteine and tBuOK has been explored revealing that sparteine may promote the formation of a monomeric catalyst. These principles can be applied to other Pd catalyzed reductive coupling processes coupled to alcohol oxidation as described herein and extension to asymmetric catalytic variants.

Of course it is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements. Thus while the present invention has been described above with particularity and detail in connection with what is presently deemed to be the most practical and preferred embodiments of the invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications including but not limited to variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use may be made without departing from the principles and concepts set forth herein.

