---

title: Systems, methods, and computer-readable storage media for analyzing HMDA data
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable storage media are described for normalizing HMDA data. In one exemplary embodiment, a computer-implemented method of normalizing HMDA data comprises receiving HMDA data including at least one of HMDA data reports and loan-level public HMDA data, the HMDA data having information that varies as a function of time; correcting errors in the HMDA data; normalizing the HMDA data across any variation in the information; summarizing the normalized HMDA data; and outputting the summarized and normalized HMDA data to an application for analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07729961&OS=07729961&RS=07729961
owner: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac)
number: 07729961
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 907 700 filed Apr. 13 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to financial data and to systems methods and computer readable storage media for analyzing data such as data related to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. More particularly the disclosure relates to systems methods and computer readable storage media for analyzing summary reports and public versions of such data and extracting the original underlying data for use in further analysis and incorporation into report format.

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HMDA was enacted by Congress in 1975 and requires certain financial institutions e.g. lenders to publicly disclose data about housing related loans and applications for such loans. The publicly disclosed data HMDA data may be used to a determine whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of their communities b assist in directing government officials and private investors to areas that may need investment and c identify possible discriminatory lending patterns and thereby assist regulatory agencies in enforcing compliance with antidiscrimination statutes.

Since HMDA was enacted there have been periodic changes to the HMDA data required to be disclosed by the financial institutions. For example initially a financial institution was only required to disclose data related to the geographic location of originated and purchased home loans. Today HMDA data has been expanded to include data about denied home loan applications the race sex and income of the applicant or borrower and the price data for some loans. Accordingly with some exceptions a financial institution is required under HMDA to report the following data 

 b the disposition of the application such as whether it was denied or resulted in an origination of a loan 

 c the property to which the loan relates such as its type single family multi family etc. and location including the census tract 

In addition to the changes in the requirement of data to be disclosed by HMDA there has also been changes to the required format of the disclosed data. An example of a change in the required format is reflected in the disclosure of the property location information which is reported using census tract information provided by the federal government. Census tracts may vary with each census reporting year. Accordingly because the same property location may appear in different census tracts depending upon which census data is used it is difficult to compare HMDA data for years that use for example the 1990 census tracts with HMDA data for years that use the 2000 census tracts.

The number of loans and applications each year that require the public disclosure of HMDA data is in the tens of millions. Financial institutions are required to disclose HMDA data annually in a predefined format to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FFIEC . The FFIEC consolidates and summarizes the HMDA data received from the different financial institutions and subsequently releases this data annually to the public via a publicly accessible database or through distribution of the HMDA data on a storage media such as a Digital Versatile Disk DVD .

The version of the HMDA data released to the public is loan level HMDA data that is depersonalized so that information relating to the borrower or property can no longer be identified. In addition the FFIEC may also release to the public summaries of the loan level HMDA data in order to make the large amount of loan level HMDA data manageable and useable. For example a summary report may be published for each mortgage lender by metropolitan statistical area MSA another summary report may be published that aggregates lender data for each MSA and yet another summary report may be published for the entire United States. MSAs are defined by the White House Office of Management and Budget OMB and comprise a list of geographic components e.g. counties or towns surrounding an urbanized area. An example of an MSA as defined by the OMB is the Washington Arlington Alexandria DC VA MD WV Metropolitan Statistical Area. 

Because HMDA reporting requirements and formats have changed over the years and because the public HMDA data is only published on an annual basis it is difficult for an analyst to conduct an in depth analysis of this data. In particular it is difficult to perform any cross year analysis of the HMDA data. Moreover mergers may also complicate analysis of HMDA data. For example when a financial institution acquires another financial institution the HMDA data for years preceding the acquisition will only reflect the acquired institution s relationship to the loan. The HMDA data published by the FFIEC is not updated to reflect the acquiring institution s relationship to the loan.

Thus direct analysis of HMDA data may take inordinate amounts of time typically requiring computer code to be written each time a specified analysis is undertaken. No existing application or tool effectively reduces the processing requirements for working with HMDA data so that data analysis may be conducted without writing new computer code and within user friendly time constraints.

HMDA data may also be linked to and processed with other relevant data sets such as U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development HUD data lender data and geographic reference data. However no centralized processing mechanism exists that integrates HMDA data with other data sets or allows for user friendly visualization and processing of HMDA data and other data sets.

In addition government sponsored enterprises GSEs such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac and the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae may have HUD goals they are required to meet. These goals may include serving under served area families such as families in economically depressed areas where lenders tend to shy away from doing business. Another goal may be serving a certain percentage of low income families defined by having an income below a certain percentage of the average income for the area. No tool presently allows GSEs or other users to capture migrational patterns or other trends that allow the GSEs to project a business strategy that will help them achieve these HUD goals.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention address the difficulties discussed above and allow for user friendly processing of HMDA and other data.

Consistent with the present invention as embodied and broadly described herein systems methods and computer program products are provided for normalizing and analyzing HMDA data.

According to one embodiment consistent with the invention a computer implemented method is provided for normalizing HMDA data. The method may comprise receiving HMDA data including at least one of HMDA data reports and loan level public HMDA data the HMDA data having information that varies as a function of time correcting errors in the HMDA data normalizing the HMDA data across any variation in the information summarizing the normalized HMDA data and outputting the summarized and normalized HMDA data to an application for analysis.

In another embodiment consistent with the invention a computer readable storage medium includes program instructions which perform when executed by a process perform a method of normalizing HMDA data. The method may comprise receiving HMDA data including at least one of HMDA data reports and loan level public HMDA data the HMDA data having information that varies as a function of time correcting errors in the HMDA data normalizing the HMDA data across any variation in the information summarizing the normalized HMDA data and outputting the summarized and normalized HMDA data to an application for analysis.

In another embodiment consistent with the invention a HMDA data analysis tool for performing a normalizing process and analysis of HMDA data is provided. The HMDA data analysis tool may comprise a geographic translator for performing a cross year process to normalize geographic information on the location of properties reported in the HMDA data an income translator for performing a cross year process to normalize HUD goals required of government sponsored enterprises relative to HMDA data a lender translator for performing a cross year process to normalize lender information reported in the HMDA data a rules repository for storing rules for performing the normalization process and a rules processor for executing the rules.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as described. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example the present invention may be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of several further features disclosed below in the detailed description.

Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient similar reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. The implementations set forth in the following description do not represent all implementations consistent with the claimed invention. Instead they are merely some examples of systems and methods consistent with the invention.

Communication channels and may include alone or in any suitable combination a telephony based network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a dedicated intranet wireless LAN the Internet and intranet a wireless network a bus or other appropriate communication mechanisms. Moreover various combinations of wired and or wireless components may be incorporated into communication channels and . Furthermore various combinations of point to point or network communications may also be incorporated into communication channels and to facilitate communication between the one or more financial institutions the FFIEC and one or more computers . Additionally data communicated through communication channels and may be communicated instead through the transfer of storage media such as DVDs.

The information required to complete the fields of the LAR does not include all the information contained in a typical loan application. Instead the fields included in the LAR represent the information required from each loan application by HMDA. Moreover information included in the LAR may not be as precise or may be in a different format than the information included in a loan application. For example LAR includes information fields within the category property location . These information fields include the five digit MSA number two digit state code three digit county code and six digit census tract number. However on a typical loan application the property location is provided by the address of the property in house number street city state and ZIP CODE format. Accordingly to transfer the address of the property provided on the loan application to the information required by the fields in the property location category of the LAR a process known as geocoding may be used. Specifically as used herein geocoding refers to a process of assigning geographic identifiers e.g. MSA number and census tract to the address of a property.

Accordingly to report property location accurately on the LAR the financial institution needs current information on the MSA boundaries and the correct census tract number currently the 2000 census tract number . Information on the MSA boundaries are defined and reported annually by the OMB within the federal government. Census tract information may be retrieved from the U.S. Census Bureau. However because the information on the MSA boundaries may change annually and the information on the census tract may change from census to census the geocoding result of the same address using the same geocoding process may also change from year to year.

Information sources and may include various sources of HMDA data and HMDA related data such as the public HMDA database operated by the FFIEC for storing loan level public HMDA data and HMDA data summary reports a census database operated by the United States Census Bureau for storing national census tract data a weighted database operated through the Missouri Census Data Center Program for storing weighted data reflecting what percentage of a census tract moves in and out of a county or an MSA as the MSA definitions vary an MSA database operated by the OMB for storing the definitions of the MSAs a GSEs goal database operated by HUD for storing the goals required of mortgage finance GSEs the Avery File database operated by a Federal Reserve analyst by the name of Robert Avery for storing data indicative of what HMDA data belongs to what lender for a specific HMDA year and a Federal National Information Center NIC database for storing data about financial institutions for which the Federal Reserve has supervisory regulatory or research interest in.

The geographic translator may perform a cross year process to normalize geographic information on the location of properties reported in the HMDA data. As used herein the term normalize generally refers to transforming HMDA data so that individual records may be compared against each other. For example normalizing the HMDA data may include re coding old census reference information associated with a record to new census tract reference information. The geographic translator income translator and lender translator each perform specific types of normalization of the HMDA data . Examples of the specific types of normalization performed are discussed in further detail below in conjunction with a description of the operation of each of the translators.

The geographic translator may normalize HMDA data by transforming similar data from various years into a consistent format by taking into account changes in HMDA reporting standards and formatting of the data data definitions and the time period when the change occurred. Exemplary operation of the geographic translator is outlined in the flowchart of . In step the geographic translator may retrieve geographic reference data. Geographic reference data may comprise the geographic information of the properties reported using the census tract information available at the time the private HMDA data was reported. This geographic information may be retrieved from the public HMDA database . The geographic reference data may also comprise information from the census database information from the weighted database information from the MSA database and information from the GSEs goals database .

In step the geographic translator may use rules stored in rules repository and rules processor to process the geographic reference data. For example information from the census database may be used to normalize current census tract data to previous census tract data and vice versa. Information from the census database may also be used to normalize current and previous census tract data to counties. In addition information from the weighted database may be used in conjunction with information from census database to determine how census tracts have changed from census to census. The information needed to normalize county information to MSA data may be retrieved from the MSA database .

Applying rules from the rules repository to the information from these three databases the geographic translator is capable of providing a reasonable normalization of a census tract to an MSA step . Rules may be developed using commercially available software products that enable the development of programs or modules that may be used for managing mining analyzing and reporting of data. An example of such a software product is SAS System commercially available from the SAS Institute Inc. hereinafter referred to as SAS. .

An example of a rule stored within the rules repository and processed by rules processor during the geographic translator process is a rule that normalizes the asynchronous process of changes in MSA definitions promulgated by the OMB and the acceptance of these definitions by HUD. For example MSA definitions are issued by the OMB in approximately June of each year.

However HUD does not incorporate the new MSA definitions into the process of defining HUD GSE goals until the following year. As a result if for example in November the OMB issues a subsequent modification to the MSA definitions promulgated in June it is too late for HUD to incorporate these modifications into its HUD GSE goals for the following year. To correct for such a discrepancy the geographic translator may use a rule that factors in the asynchronous process of changes in MSA definitions promulgated by the OMB and the acceptance of these definitions by the OMB to thereby synchronize the process by normalizing the HMDA data based on the HUD reporting of the GSE goals.

An example of the above described rule developed in SAS and that may be used by the geographic translator to normalize HMDA data is illustrated below.

The income translator relates to the HUD goals required of mortgage finance GSEs such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. For example one HUD GSE goal includes a requirement that a certain percentage of loans purchased guaranteed or held by the GSEs are loans provided to low or moderate income families. This HUD GSE goal is hereinafter referred to as the L MI goal. Another HUD GSE goal referred to as the Special Affordable Housing Goal requires that a certain proportion of GSE purchased loans must be loans that are used to finance housing meeting the then existing unaddressed needs of and affordable to low income families in low income areas and very low income families. This HUD GSE goal is hereinafter referred to as the SA goal. Yet another HUD GSE goal includes a requirement that the GSEs annually purchase a specified amount or percentage of loans used to finance homes in underserved areas such as central cities and rural areas. This HUD GSE goal is hereinafter referred to as the underserved goal. 

The specific requirements of the HUD GSE goals are defined annually. For example in 2004 in order to determine whether a loan qualified to count towards the L MI and or SA goal HUD provided a GSE goals data file which included numerous requirements. For example the HUD GSE goals data file incorporated the census tract boundaries and tract numbering system used in the 2000 census as well as the MSA designations established by the OMB in June 2003 based the data values in the file determining low income areas in 2002 on 1990 census data and pre 2003 MSA definitions provided estimates of area median incomes MIyyyy for 1984 through 2002 which were benchmarked to the 1990 census and area median incomes for 2003 and 2004 benchmarked to the 2000 census and classified census tracts as metropolitan or non metropolitan based on the OMB s specification of MSAs prior to June 2003.

The specific requirements for the underserved goal in 2004 included a definition of a central city as a census tract with median income at or below 120 percent of the median income of the MSA and a minority population of 30 or greater or a census tract with median income at or below 90 percent of median income of the MSA. The 2004 requirement defined rural areas as a county having a median income at or below 120 percent of the greater of the state non metropolitan median income or the nationwide non metropolitan median income and a minority population of 30 percent or greater or median income at or below 95 percent of the greater of the state non metropolitan median income or nationwide non metropolitan median income.

As is evidenced by the above 2004 requirements for the L MI and SA goal and the underserved goal HUD GSE goals may vary across census tracts and in addition may vary from year to year. Accordingly the income translator may perform a cross year normalization of the HMDA data by factoring in the changes to the HUD GSE goals.

Operation of the income translator is outlined in the flowchart of . In step the income translator may retrieve the HUD goals reference data. HUD goals reference data may comprise HUD GSE goals reference data files retrieved from the GSEs goal database and HMDA data summary reports and loan level public HMDA data retrieved from the public HMDA database . In addition in step the income translator may retrieve the output of the geographic translator the normalization of census tracts to MSAs.

In step the income translator may use rules stored in rules repository and rules processor to process the HUD goals reference data and the normalized census tracts to MSA data. In order to comply with requirements set forth in the HUD GSE goals the income translator may use rules to analyze a census tract to determine whether the census tract is part of an MSA or not step . For example a determination may be made as to what part of the census tract will be considered metropolitan and what part of the census tract will be considered non metropolitan. Based on the determination additional rules may be applied in accordance with the requirements set forth in the HUD GSE goals data file for a particular year such as those outlined for year 2004 discussed above step . As a result of the application of these rules the income translator may determine which loans within a particular census tract meet the HUD GSE goals of L MI and or SA.

Further through geocoding of the census tract the income translator may also determine which loans in the census tract meet the HUD GSE goals of underserved by incorporating a HUD provided list of underserved census tracts.

Once a determination is made the income translator may flag the L MI SA and underserved loans. In addition by applying the rules in accordance with the requirements set forth in the HUD GSE goals data file for a particular year to the normalized census tracts to MSAs data the income translator may determine how much of a median family income has moved into and out of an MSA. Another rule may be applied in instances when an HMDA record is missing its tract number. In this instance a rule may specify that the lowest greater than zero median income for a tract within a county is used as the median income for HUD classification purposes for that record. This allows records without tract numbers which would otherwise be ignored to be identified as eligible to be used in the evaluation of HUD GSE goals.

An example of a rule developed in SAS and that may be used by the income translator to normalize HMDA data is illustrated below.

from hmda.geogoals9602 rename STATE ST2005 CNTY2002 CNTY2005 MSA2002 MSA2005 CENINC89 CENINC MEDINC89 MEDINC 

In step the income translator outputs normalized HUD goals reference data which include the flags for L MI SA and underserved loans. The output may be in the form of a reference or lookup table which may further include census tracts by year with area median income data and underserved area flags as provided by HUD to the GSEs.

The lender translator may perform a cross year process to normalize lender information in the HMDA data summary reports and loan level public HMDA data . Operation of the lender translator is outlined in the flowchart of . In step the lender translator may retrieve lender reference data. Lender reference data may comprise HMDA data summary reports and loan level public HMDA data retrieved from the pubic HMDA database Avery files retrieved from the Avery file database and data from the Federal NIC database . Examples of the data retrieved from the Federal NIC database may include bank names and associated identifying tags that allow the determination of what entity is the child of a parent bank. This data may be used for example to normalize the lenders to one standard set of names and thereby reduce the thousands of lender names that may exist in the HMDA data.

The Avery files may include rules for normalizing lender information associated with the HMDA data which fail to include the reporting of master financial institutions for lenders. For example a financial institution may include multiple entities that report private HMDA data . In part financial institutions report private HMDA data out of multiple entities in an attempt to prevent other competitive financial institutions from determining the lending patterns and lending amounts of the master financial institutions. Accordingly when reviewing HMDA data summary reports and loan level public HMDA data it may be difficult to determine all the loans that belong to a particular financial institution .

However the Avery files may include a data set of lenders for each year and therefore it may be used to determine attribute metrics like market share for a particular lender in a given year by considering all of the loans for that lender. In step the rules from the Avery files may be used to process the HMDA data to thereby identify what loans belong to a particular financial institution.

An example of a rule developed in SAS and that may be used by the lender translator to normalize HMDA data is illustrated below.

if REG4 yy then NCUA yy repeat 0 9 length compress put REG4 yy 8. compress put REG4 yy 8. else NCUA yy 

In step the lender translator may output normalized lender reference data. The output may be in the form of a table of market shares for lenders by year. For example a market share for financial institution in 2006 may also include the market share of financial institution . Thus the table may be used to determine the historical data of financial institution as if it had owned financial institution in 2006.

Operation of the HMDA data analysis tool is outlined in the flowchart of . In the HMDA data analysis process the HMDA data analysis tool may normalize HMDA data by incorporating the outputs of geographic translator income translator and lender translator .

In step the HMDA data analysis tool may retrieve HMDA data summary reports and loan level public HMDA data from the public HMDA database . The retrieved HMDA data may be HMDA data that has been reported across a number of different years.

In step the HMDA data analysis tool may perform a process of cleaning and standardizing the HMDA data to correct for errors caused by for example improper data entry and or inconsistent formatting of the entered data. Other errors in the HMDA data may be caused by a lender consistently misusing the codes used to complete the LAR . To correct this error the HMDA data analysis tool may clean the HMDA data by replacing the misused code with the correct code. Additionally a branch of a lender may consistently report only a part of a census tract number such as 1234.xx. To correct such an error the HMDA data analysis tool may convert the incomplete census tract to the tract number for the branch so 1234.xx could be converted to 1234.56 if 56 is the suffix for properties serviced by that branch.

Another error in the HMDA data may occur when a lender may have reported their data using a first code for a given area and other lenders may have reported data for the same area using a different outdated code. The HMDA data analysis tool may correct this error by standardizing the HMDA data to account for the differences in lender reporting. For example if 10 lenders use code 25 for a particular area and 5 lenders use code 86 the HMDA data may be standardized by converting code 86 to code 25. 

In addition census county codes may have changed over the years. For example code 25 for Dade County from the 1990 census may have changed to code 86 for Miami Dade county for the 2000 census. Thus within a particular HMDA record the same property may have different reference codes. The data may be standardized to a particular census year by using either code 25 or 86 for all such records.

An example of a rule developed in SAS and that may be used to clean and standardize the HMDA data is illustrated below.

Once the HMDA data has been cleaned and standardized the HMDA data analysis tool may perform a multiple match merge step with auxiliary data from processes and in order to normalize the HMDA data to correct for changes in the data step . For example as discussed above depending on the variation in the reporting years of the HMDA data the HMDA data may vary based on requirement and format changes that may have occurred during that time period. In addition depending on the time period spanned by the received HMDA data different mergers and acquisitions may have occurred among the lenders and thereby the HMDA data for years preceding the merger or acquisition will only reflect the acquired institution s relationship to the loan. Another variation in the HMDA data received may be caused by use of different census tract information. For example some of the received HMDA data may have been reported using the 1990 census tract information while some of the received HMDA data may been reported using the 2006 census tract information.

In step additional rules that may normalize attributes of the HMDA data that are not geography income or lender based may be used to process the HMDA data. The additional rules may include for example an interest rate spread for determining which loans belong to the sub prime market and which loans belong to the prime market. Another example of an additional rule may be a rule for categorizing conforming and non conforming loans. For example the rule may set forth that if a loan was originally sold to a GSE the loan is conforming. If not other HMDA data or data derived from processes or may be used to determine if the loan is conforming.

An example of a rule developed in SAS and that may be used to normalize attributes of the HMDA data that are not geography income or lender based is illustrated below.

In step the normalized HMDA data may be summarized and structured into data cubes. A data cube is a data structure that allows for fast analysis of the underlying data. The summarizing of the data may be performed using cross tabulations techniques. For example the normalized HMDA data may be considered as two types metrics such as loan amounts and categories such as minority status. For each category available in the HMDA data the HMDA data analysis tool may create every possible combination. For example assuming the HMDA category minority status includes the values minority status A and minority status B and the HMDA category loan type includes the categories type 1 and type 2. The HMDA data analysis tool may determine all four permutations of these two categories A A B B . Then for each permutation metrics such as the loan amount and count may be summarized for the permutation.

Derived categories such as conforming nonconforming or HUD goal eligible may also be used for the above described permutations and metrics may be calculated for each permutation. Other categories that may be derived include lien status conforming flag conforming ratio distributions prime sub prime flag geographic flags minority flag goal flags low or moderate income underserved and special affordable merger adjusted lender rollup loan to income ratios etc.

Finally the metrics may be summarized using a report procedure at the most granular level also known as a handle defined as a unique combination of all categorical variables or attributes. In step the summarized and normalized HMDA data may be exported into an application. The application may be a spreadsheet application such as Microsoft Excel. Open Database Connectivity ODBC may be used to provide a standard software application programming interface API for linking the HMDA data to the application.

An example of a handle from the summarized and normalized HMDA data is illustrated in . In handles Handle Handle and Handle have been created for private HMDA data reported during the years 1996 1997 and 1998. In addition the categorical variables of the handles include a subgroup of attribute variables and a subgroup of metric variables. The attribute variables subgroup corresponds to the fields of LAR illustrated in . An optional translation has also been performed to translate the various listing of codes in from a numerical representation to an alphabetical representation for purposes of simplifying analysis. For example code one to four family used in the property type group of has been translated to code F.

The summarized and normalized HMDA data may be further aggregated into pivot tables and pivot charts for further analysis. For example pivot tables and pivot charts may be used to analyze the HMDA data within an application such as a spreadsheet application. illustrate an example of such a pivot table.

Other HMDA record attributes like gender applications reason for denial accept rates may be incorporated into the HMDA data analysis tool . Additionally lenders may use internal not publicly available data as an input to process to expand the analytical capabilities of the HDMA data analysis tool . Likewise market data connectors may be created through analytical integration with other market monitoring tools. Through the use of the HMDA data analysis tool patterns of primary market behaviors may be identified and understood.

Instructions may be stored on a computer readable storage medium which when executed by a processor such as a processor in computer performs the methods described in paragraphs .

The foregoing description of possible implementations and embodiments consistent with the present invention does not represent a comprehensive list of all such implementations or all variations of the implementations described. The description of only some implementations should not be construed as an intent to exclude other implementations. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand how to implement the invention in the appended claims in other ways using equivalents and alternatives that do not depart from the scope of the following claims. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

