---

title: Expansion of NK cells and therapeutic uses thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to novel methods for preferentially activating and expanding NK cells. The methods utilize the stimulatory effects of IL-15 and CD137 ligand to preferentially expand and activate NK cells in a mixed cell culture comprising NK cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026097&OS=08026097&RS=08026097
owner: St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
number: 08026097
owner_city: Memphis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080908
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 074 525 filed on Mar. 8 2005 which was a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 981 352 filed Nov. 4 2004.

This invention was made in part with U.S. Government support under National Institutes of Health grant no. CA 58297. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to activation and expansion of cells for therapeutic uses in particular for activations and expansion of NK cells for chimeric receptor based cell therapy.

B cell malignancies of children and adults such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL and non Hodgkin lymphoma NHL are often incurable with intensive chemotherapy. For many patients bone marrow ablation followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only potentially curative option but the disease may return after transplant Pui C H Campana D Evans W E. Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia Current status and future perspectives. Lancet Oncology 2 597 607 2001 . The well documented association between T cell mediated graft versus host disease GvHD and a delay or suppression of leukemic relapse after allogeneic stem cell transplantation has led some investigators to manipulate GvHD by infusion of donor T lymphocytes. Although this procedure can induce a measurable antineoplastic response Porter D L et al. Induction of graft versus host disease as immunotherapy for relapsed chronic myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 330 100106 1994 Kolb H J et al. Graft versus leukemia effect of donor lymphocyte transfusions in marrow grafted patients. European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Working Party Chronic Leukemia. Blood 86 2041 2050 1995 Slavin S et al. Allogeneic cell therapy with donor peripheral blood cells and recombinant human interleukin 2 to treat leukemia relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Blood 87 2195 2204 1996 Collins R H Jr. et al. Donor leukocyte infusions in 140 patients with relapsed malignancy after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. J Clin Oncol 15 433 444 1997 it carries the risk of severe GvHD particularly in those patients 70 who lack an HLA identical donor. Moreover in some B cell malignancies such as ALL the effect of lymphocyte infusions is often inadequate Kolb H J et al. Graft versus leukemia effect of donor lymphocyte transfusions in marrow grafted patients. European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation Working Party Chronic Leukemia. Blood 86 2041 2050 1995 Verdonck L F et al. Donor leukocyte infusions for recurrent hematologic malignancies after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation impact of infused and residual donor T cells. Bone Marrow Transplant 22 1057 1063 1998 Collins R H Jr. et al. Donor leukocyte infusions in acute lymphocytic leukemia. Bone Marrow Transplant 26 511 516 2000 .

In addition to T cell immune responses natural killer NK cells exert cytotoxicity against cancer cells and appear to be clinically relevant Schroers R et al. Gene transfer into human T lymphocytes and natural killer cells by Ad5 F35 chimeric adenoviral vectors. Exp Hematol 32 536 546 2004 . While T cells recognize tumor associated peptide antigen expressed on surface HLA class I or class II molecules antigen nonspecific immune responses are mediated by NK cells that are activated by the failure to recognize cognate self HLA class I molecules. The graft versus tumor effect of transplants using HLA matched donors is mediated by antigen specific T cells while transplantation using HLA mismatched donors can also lead to donor NK cells with potent antitumor activity. HLA mismatched haplo identical transplants can exert a powerful anti leukemia effect based on expansion of antigen nonspecific donor NK cells.

Recent studies have emphasized the potential of NK cell therapy in recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. In animal models of transplantation donor NK cells could lyse leukemic cells and host lympho hematopoietic cells without affecting nonhematopoietic tissues Caligiuri M A Velardi A Scheinberg D A Borrello I M. Immunotherapeutic approaches for hematologic malignancies. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 337 353 2004 suggesting that NK mediated graft versus leukemia responses may occur in the absence of systemic disease. Because NK cells are inhibited by self HLA molecules which bind to killer immunoglobulin like receptors KIR these findings have led to the clinical practice of selecting hematopoietic stem cell transplant donors with an HLA and KIR type that favors NK cell activation and thus could be expected to promote an antileukemic effect Sadelain M Riviere I Brentjens R. Targeting tumours with genetically enhanced T lymphocytes. Nat Rev Cancer 3 35 45 2003 Cooper L J Topp M S Serrano L M et al. T cell clones can be rendered specific for CD19 toward the selective augmentation of the graft versus B lineage leukemia effect. Blood 101 1637 1644 2003 Brentjens R J Latouche J B Santos E et al. Eradication of systemic B cell tumors by genetically targeted human T lymphocytes co stimulated by CD80 and interleukin 15. Nat Med 9 279 286 2003 . However selection of the best donor is limited to patients who have more than one potential donor and the capacity of NK cells to lyse lymphoid cells is generally low and difficult to predict. Sadelain M Riviere 1 Brentjens R. Targeting tumours with genetically enhanced T lymphocytes. Nat Rev Cancer 3 35 45 2003 Brentjens R J Latouche J B Santos E et al. Eradication of systemic B cell tumors by genetically targeted human T lymphocytes co stimulated by CD80 and interleukin 15. Nat Med 9 279 286 2003 Imai C Mihara K Andreansky M Nicholson I C Pui C H Campana D. Chimeric receptors with 4 lBB signaling capacity provoke potent cytotoxicity against acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Leukemia 18 676 684 2004 Ito C Kumagai M Manabe A et al. Hyperdiploid acute lymphoblastic leukemia with 51 to 65 chromosomes A distinct biological entity with a marked propensity to undergo apoptosis. Blood 93 315 320 1999 .

The established methods for cell expansion favor T cell expansion and even after T cells are depleted residual T cells typically become prominent after stimulation. Methods for the expansion of T lymphocytes have been described in US published patent applications 20030147869 20030224520 20040101519 and 20040110290. Immunotherapy with NK cells has been limited by the inability to obtain sufficient numbers of pure NK cells suitable for manipulation and expansion. Thus there is a need for better methods to preferentially expand NK cells from a population of NK cells and T cells.

The present invention is based on the concept that expression of chimeric receptors on NK cells could overcome HLA mediated inhibitory signals thus endowing the cells with cytotoxicity against otherwise NK resistant cells. The invention provides a novel method that allows specific and vigorous preferential expansion of NK cells lacking T cell receptors CD56 CD3 cells and their highly efficient transduction with chimeric receptors.

The present invention provides a method for obtaining an enriched NK cell population suitable for transduction with a chimeric receptor. This method comprises the preferential expansion of NK cells within a mixed population of NK cells and T cells by co culturing the mixed population of cells with a cell line that activates NK cells and not T lymphocytes. This NK activating cell line is composed of cells that a lack or poorly express major histocompatibility complex I molecules b express membrane bound interleukin 15 and a co stimulatory factor ligand c activate natural killer cells and d fail to activate T lymphocytes. In a particular embodiment the NK activating cell line is the K562 myeloid leukemia cell line or the Wilms tumor cell line HFWT. In another embodiment of the invention the co stimulatory factor ligand is CD137L.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method of preferentially expanding natural killer NK cells in a mixed cell culture comprising NK cells and T lymphocytes which comprises culturing said mixed cell culture with interleukin 15 receptor antibodies and CD137 ligand antibodies coupled to a solid support.

4 1BB ligand CD137L is claimed and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 704. 4 1BB receptor is expressed on several antigen presenting cells such as macrophages and activated B cells Pollok et al. J. Immunol. 150 771 1993 Schwarz et al. Blood 85 1043 1995 . The interaction of 4 1BB and its ligand provides a co stimulatory signal leading to T cell activation and growth Goodwin et al. Eur. J. Immunol. 23 2631 1993 Alderson et al. Eur. J. Immunol. 24 2219 1994 Hurtado et al. J. Immunol. 155 3360 1995 Pollock et al. Eur. J. Immunol. 25 488 1995 DeBenedette et al. J. Exp. Med. 181 985 1995 . These observations suggest an important role for 4 1BB in the regulation of T cell mediated immune responses Ignacio et al. Nature Med. 3 682 1997 .

The term IL 15 interleukin 15 refers to a cytokine that stimulates NK cells Fehniger T A Caligiuri M A. Blood 97 1 14 32 2001 . It has become apparent that IL 15 presented through cell to cell contact has a higher NK stimulating activity than soluble IL 15 Dubois S et al. Immunity 17 5 537 547 2002 Kobayashi H et al. Blood 2004 PMID 15367431 Koka R et al. J Immunol 173 6 3594 3598 2004 Burkett P R et al. J Exp Med 200 7 825 834 2004 . To express membrane bound IL 15 a construct consisting of human IL 15 mature peptide NM 172174 was fused to the signal peptide and transmembrane domain of human CD8 .

A solid support means any surface capable of having an agent attached thereto and includes without limitation metals glass plastics polymers particles microparticles co polymers colloids lipids lipid bilayers cell surfaces and the like. Essentially any surface that is capable of retaining an agent bound or attached thereto. A prototypical example of a solid support used herein is a particle such as a bead.

The term substantially free of means a population of cells e.g. NK cells that is at least 50 free of non NK cells or in certain embodiments at least 60 70 80 85 or 90 free of non NK cells.

A co stimulatory signal refers to a signal which in combination with a primary signal such as TCR CD3 ligation leads to NK cell proliferation and or upregulation or downregulation of key molecules.

To specifically or preferentially expand NK cells means to culture a mixed population of cells that contains a small number of NK cells so that the NK cells proliferate to numbers greater than other cell types in the population.

To activate T cells and NK cells means to induce a change in their biologic state by which the cells express activation markers produce cytokines proliferate and or become cytotoxic to target cells. All these changes can be produced by primary stimulatory signals. Co stimulatory signals amplify the magnitude of the primary signals and suppress cell death following initial stimulation resulting in a more durable activation state and thus a higher cytotoxic capacity.

In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional molecular biology microbiology and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook et al Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 1989 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Volumes III Ausubel R. M. ed. 1994 Cell Biology A Laboratory Handbook Volumes I III J. E. Celis ed. 1994 Current Protocols in Immunology Volumes I III Coligan J. E. ed. 1994 Oligonucleotide Synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Nucleic Acid Hybridization B. D. Haines S. J. Higgins eds. 1985 Transcription And Translation B. D. Haines S. J. Higgins eds. 1984 Animal Cell Culture R. I. Freshney ed. 1986 Immobilized Cells And Enzymes IRL Press 1986 B. Perbal A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning 1984 CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN IMMUNOLOGY Q. E. Coligan A. M. Kruisbeek D. H. Margulies E. M. Shevach and W. Strober eds. 1991 ANNUAL REVIEW OF IMMUNOLOGY as well as monographs in journals such as ADVANCES IN IMMUNOLOGY. All patents patent applications and publications mentioned herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Obtaining an enriched population of NK cells for use in therapy has been difficult to achieve. Specific NK cell expansion has been problematic to achieve with established methods where CD3 T cells preferentially expand. Even after T cell depletion residual T cells typically become prominent after stimulation. However in accordance with the teachings of the present invention NK cells may be preferentially expanded by exposure to cells that lack or poorly express major histocompatibility complex I and or II molecules and which have been genetically modified to express membrane bound IL 15 and 4 1BB ligand CDI37L . Such cell lines include but are not necessarily limited to K562 ATCC CCL 243 Lozzio et al. Blood 45 3 321 334 1975 Klein et al. Int. J. Cancer 18 421 431 1976 and the Wilms tumor cell line HFWT. Fehniger T A Caligiuri M A. Int Rev Immunol 20 3 4 503 534 2001 Harada H et al. Exp Hematol 32 7 614 621 2004 the uterine endometrium tumor cell line HHUA the melanoma cell line HMV II the hepatoblastoma cell line HuH 6 the lung small cell carcinoma cell lines Lu 130 and Lu 134 A the neutoblastoma cell lines NB 19 and N1369 the embryonal carcinoma cell line from testis NEC 14 the cervix carcinoma cell line TCO 2 and the bone marrow metastated neuroblastoma cell line TNB 1 Harada H. et al. Jpn. J. Cancer Res 93 313 319 2002 . Preferably the cell line used lacks or poorly expresses both MHC I and II molecules such as the K562 and HFWT cell lines.

A solid support may be used instead of a cell line. Such supports will have attached on its surface at least one molecule capable of binding to NK cells and inducing a primary activation event and or a proliferative response or capable of binding a molecule having such an affect thereby acting as a scaffold. The support may have attached to its surface the CD137 ligand protein a CD137 antibody the IL 15 protein or an IL 15 receptor antibody. Preferably the support will have IL 15 receptor antibody and CD137 antibody bound on its surface.

The invention is intended to include the use of fragments mutants or variants e.g. modified forms of the IL 15 and or CD137 ligand proteins or antigens that retain the ability to induce stimulation and proliferation of NK cells. A form of the protein is intended to mean a protein that shares a significant homology with the IL 15 or CD137 ligand proteins or antigen and is capable of effecting stimulation and proliferation of NK cells. The terms biologically active or biologically active form of the protein as used herein are meant to include forms of the proteins or antigens that are capable of effecting enhanced activated NK cell proliferation. One skilled in the art can select such forms based on their ability to enhance NK cell activation and proliferation upon introduction of a nucleic acid encoding said proteins into a cell line. The ability of a specific form of the IL 15 or CD137 ligand protein or antigen to enhance NK cell proliferation can be readily determined for example by measuring cell proliferation or effector function by any known assay or method.

Antigen specific cells can be expanded in vitro for use in adoptive cellular immunotherapy in which infusions of such cells have been shown to have anti tumor reactivity in a tumor bearing host. The compositions and methods of this invention can be used to generate a population of NK cells that deliver both primary and co stimulatory signals for use in immunotherapy in the treatment of cancer in particular the treatment of lung cancer melanoma breast cancer prostate cancer colon cancer renal cell carcinoma ovarian cancer neuroblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma leukemia and lymphoma. The compositions and methods described in the present invention may be utilized in conjunction with other types of therapy for cancer such as chemotherapy surgery radiation gene therapy and so forth.

The present invention shows that human primary NK cells may be expanded in the presence of a myeloid cell line that has been genetically modified to express membrane bound IL 15 and 4 1BB ligand CD137L . A cell line modified in this way which does not have MHC class I and II molecules is highly susceptible to NK cell lysis and activates NK cells.

For example K562 myeloid cells can be transduced with a chimeric protein construct consisting of human IL 15 mature peptide fused to the signal peptide and transmembrane domain of human CD8 and GFP. Transduced cells can then be single cell cloned by limiting dilution and a clone with the highest GFP expression and surface IL 15 selected. This clone can then be transduced with human CD137L creating a K562 mb15 137L cell line.

To preferentially expand NK cells peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures containing NK cells are cultured with a K562 mbl5 137L cell line in the presence of 10 IU mL of IL 2 for a period of time sufficient to activate and enrich for a population of NK cells. This period can range from 2 to 20 days preferably about 5 days. Expanded NK cells may then be further modified if desired before therapeutic or other use.

Methods of re introducing cellular components are known in the art and include procedures such as those exemplified in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 844 893 and 4 690 915. The amount of activated NK cells used can vary between in vitro and in vivo uses as well as with the amount and type of the target cells. The amount administered will also vary depending on the condition of the patient and should be determined by considering all appropriate factors by the practitioner.

The CD 19 human B lineage ALL cell lines RS4 11 OP 1 380 697 and KOPN57bi the T cell line GEM C7 and the myeloid cell lines K562 and U 937 were available in our laboratory. Cells were maintained in RPMI 1640 Gibco Grand Island N.Y. supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum FCS BioWhittaker Walkersville Md. and antibiotics.

Primary leukemia cells were obtained with appropriate informed consent and Institutional Review Board M approval from nine patients with B lineage ALL from four of these patients we also studied with IRB approval cryopreserved peripheral

blood samples obtained during clinical remission. An unequivocal diagnosis of B lineage ALL was established by morphologic cytochemical and immunophenotypic criteria in each case more than 95 of the cells were positive for CD19. Peripheral blood was obtained from eight healthy adult donors. Mononuclear cells collected from the samples by centrifugation on a Lymphoprep density step Nycomed Oslo Norway were washed twice in phosphate buffered saline PBS and once in AIM V medium Gibco .

The anti CD 19 anti CD 19 BB i and anti CD 19 truncated control plasmids are described in Imai C et al. Leukemia 18 676 684 2004 . The pMSCV IRES GFP pEQPAM3 E and pRDF constructs were obtained from the St. Jude Vector Development and Production Shared Resource. The intracellular domains of human DAP 10 4 1BB ligand and interleukin 15 IL 15 with long signal peptide were subcloned by polymerase chain reaction PCR with a human spleen cDNA library from Dr. G. Neale St. Jude Children s Research Hospital used as a template. An antiCD 19 DAP 10 plasmid was constructed by replacing the intracellular domain of anti CD 19 with that of DAP 10 using the SOE PCR splicing by overlapping extension by PCR method. The signal peptide of CD8 cc the mature peptide of IL 15 and the transmembrane domain of CDB were assembled by SOE PCR to encode a membrane bound form of IL 15. The resulting expression cassettes were subcloned into EcoRI and XhoI sites of MSCV IRES GFP.

The RD114 pseudotyped retrovirus was generated as described in Imai C et al. Leukemia 18 676 684 2004 . We used calcium phosphate DNA precipitation to transfect 293T cells with anti CD 19 anti CD 19DAP 10 anti CD 19 BB or anti CD 19 truncated pEQ PAM3 E and pRDF. Conditioned medium containing retrovirus was harvested at 48 hours and 72 hours after transfection immediately frozen in dry ice and stored at 80 C. until use.

K562 cells were transduced with the construct encoding the membrane bound form of IL 15. Cells were cloned by limiting dilution and a single cell clone with high expression of GFP and of surface IL 15 K562 mb15 was expanded. This clone was subsequently transduced with human 4 1BB ligand and designated as K562 mb15 41BBL . K562 cells expressing wild type IL 15 K562 wt15 or 4 IBBL K562 41BBL were produced by a similar procedure. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells 1.5 106 were incubated in a 24 well tissue culture plate with or without 106 K562 derivative stimulator cells in the presence of 10 N mL human IL 2 National Cancer Institute BRB Preclinical Repository Rockville Md. in RPMI 1640 and 10 FCS. Mononuclear cells stimulated with K562 mb15 41BBL were transduced with retroviruses as previously described for T cells Melero I et al. NK1.1 cells express 4 iBB CDwl37 costimulatory molecule and are required for tumor immunity elicited by anti 4 1BB monoclonal antibodies. Cell Immunol 190 167 172 1998 . Briefly 14 mL polypropylene centrifuge tubes Falcon were coated with human fibronectin 100 g mL Sigma St. Louis Mo. or RetroNectin 50 g mL TaKaRa Otsu Japan . Prestimulated cells 2 10 were resuspended in the tubes in 2 3 mL of virus conditioned medium with polybrene 4 g mL Sigma and centrifuged at 2400 g for 2 hours centrifugation was omitted when RetroNectin was used . The multiplicity of infection 4 to 6 was identical in each experiment comparing the activity of different chimeric receptors. After centrifugation cells were left undisturbed for 24 hours in a humidified incubator at 37 C. 5 CO. The transduction procedure was repeated on two successive days. After a second transduction the cells were re stimulated with K562 mb 15 4 1BBL in the presence of 10 IU mL of IL 2. Cells were maintained in RPMI 1640 10 FCS and 10 IU mL IL 2.

Transduced NK cells were stained with goat anti mouse Fab polyclonal antibody conjugated with biotin Jackson Immunoresearch West Grove Pa. followed by streptavidin conjugated to peridinin chlorophyll protein PerCP Becton Dickinson San Jose Calif. . For Western blotting cells were lysed in RIPA buffer PBS 1 Triton X100 0.5 sodium deoxycholate 0.1 SDS containing 3 g mL of pepstatin 3 g mL of leupeptin 1 mM of PMSF 2 mM of EDTA and 5 g mL of aprotinin. Centrifuged lysate supernatants were boiled with an equal volume of loading buffer with or without 0.1 M DTT and then separated by SDS PAGE on a precast 10 20 gradient acrylamide gel BioRad Hercules Calif. . The proteins were transferred to a PVDF membrane which was incubated with primary mouse anti human CD3 monoclonal antibody clone 8D3 Pharmingen . Membranes were then washed incubated with a goat anti mouse IgG horseradish peroxidase conjugated second antibody and developed by using the ECP kit Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. .

The following antibodies were used for immunophenotypic characterization of expanded and transduced cells anti CD3 conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC to peridinin chlorophyll protein PerCP or to energy coupled dye ECD anti CD 10 conjugated to phycoerythrin PE anti CD19 PE anti CD22 PE anti CD56 FITC PE or allophycocyanin AFC anti CD 16 CyChrome antibodies from Becton Dickinson Pharmingen San Diego or Beckman Coulter Miami Fla. and anti CD25 PE Dako Carpinteria Calif. . Surface expression of KIR and NK activation molecules was determined with specific antibodies conjugated to FIX or PE from Beckman Coulter or Becton Dickinson as previously described Brentjens R J Latouche J B Santos E et al. Eradication of systemic B cell tumors by genetically targeted human T lymphocytes co stimulated by CD80 and interleukin 15. Nat Med 9 279 286 2003 . Antibody staining was detected with a FACScan or a LSR II flow cytomete Becton Dickinson .

Target cells 1.5 105 were placed in 96 well U bottomed tissue culture plates Costar Cambridge Na and incubated with primary NK cells transduced with chimeric receptors at various effector target E T ratios in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 FCS NK cells were cultured with 1000 U mL IL 2 for 48 hours before the assay. Cultures were performed in the absence of exogenous IL 2. After 4 hours and 24 hours cells were harvested labeled with CD10 PE or CD22 PE and CD56 FITC and assayed by flow cytometry as previously described. The numbers of target cells recovered from cultures without NK cells were used as a reference.

For cytokine production primary NK cells 2 10in 200 l expressing chimeric receptors were stimulated with various target cells at a 1 1 ratio for 24 hours. The levels of IFN and GM CSF in cell free culture supernatants were determined with a Bio Plex assay BioRad .

A test of equality of mean NK expansion with various stimuli was performed using analysis of variance for a randomized complete block design with each donor considered a random block. Tukey s honest significant difference procedure was used to compute simultaneous confidence intervals for each pairwise comparison of the differences of treatment means. Differences in cytotoxicities and cytokine production among NK cells bearing different chimeric receptors were analyzed by the paired Student s t test.

To transduce chimeric receptors into primary NK cells we searched for stimuli that would induce specific NK cell proliferation. In preliminary experiments peripheral

blood mononuclear cells of CD3 T lymphocytes were depleted and the remaining cells were stimulated with IL 2 1000 U mL or IL 15 10 ng mL . Under these culture conditions there was no expansion of NK cells which in fact progressively declined in numbers. With PHA 7 mg mL and IL 2 1000 U mL as stimuli we observed a 2 to 5 fold expansion of CD56 CD3 NK cells after 1 week of culture. However despite the low proportion of contaminating CD3 cells 30 fold expansion and after 1 week of culture represented approximately 35 of the cell population.

NK cells can be stimulated by contact with the human leukemia cell line K562 which lacks HLA antigen expression Robertson M J Cameron C Lazo S Cochran K J Voss S D Ritz J. Costimulation of human natural killer cell proliferation role of accessory cytokines and cell contact dependent signals. Nat Immun 15 213 226 1996 and genetically modified K562 cells have been used to stimulate cytotoxic T lymphocytes Maus M V Thomas A K Leonard D G et al. Ex vivo expansion of polyclonal and antigen specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes by artificial APCs expressing ligands for the T cell receptor CD28 and 4 1BB. Nat Biotechnol 20 143 148 2002 . We tested whether the NK stimulatory capacity of K562 cells could be increased through enforced expression of additional NK stimulatory molecules using two molecules that are not expressed by K562 cells and are known to stimulate NK cells. One molecule the ligand for 4 1BB 4 1BBL triggers activation signals after binding to 4 1BB CD 137 a signaling molecule expressed on the surface of NK cells Melero I Johnston J V Shufford W W Mittler R S Chen L. NK1.I cells express 4 IBB CDw137 costimulatory molecule and are required for tumor immunity elicited by anti 4 IBB monoclonal antibodies. Cell Immunol 190 167 172 1998 . The other molecule IL 15 is a cytokine known to promote NK cell development and the survival of mature NK cells Carson W E Fehniger T A Haldar S et al. A potential role for interleukin 15 in the regulation of human natural killer cell survival J Clin Invest. 99 937 943 1997 Cooper M A Bush J E Fehniger T A et al. In vivo evidence for a dependence on interleukin 15 for survival of natural killer cells. Blood 100 3633 3638 2002 Fehniger T A Caligiuri M A. Ontogeny and expansion of human natural killer cells clinical implications. Int Rev Immunol 20 503 534 2001 Wu J Lanier L L. Natural killer cells and cancer. Adv Cancer Res 90 127 56 127 156 2003 . Since IL 15 has greater biological activity when presented to NK cells bound to IL 15R on the cell membrane of stimulatory cells rather than in its soluble form we made a construct containing the human IL 15 gene fused to the gene encoding the human CD8 transmembrane domain and used it to transduce K562 cells. Expression of IL 15 on the surface of K562 cells was more than five times higher with the IL 15 CD8 construct than with wild type IL 15.

To test whether the modified K562 cells expressing both 4 11313L and IL I5 K562 mbl5 41BBL cells promote NK cell expansion we cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells from seven donors in the presence of low dose 10 U mL IL 2 as well as irradiated K562 cells transduced with 4 1 BBL and or IL 15 or with an empty control vector. Expression of either 4 1 BBL or IL 15 by K562 cells improved the stimulation of NK stimulatory capacity of K562 in some cases but not overall whereas simultaneous expression of both molecules led to a consistent and striking amplification of NK cells median recovery of CD56CD3 cells at 1 week of culture 2030 of input cells range 1020 2520 compared with a median recovery of 250 range 150 640 for K562 cells lacking 4 1BBL and IL 15 P

Before transducing peripheral blood mononuclear cells with retroviral vectors containing chimeric receptor constructs and GFP we stimulated them with K562 mb15 41BBL cells. In 27 experiments the median percentage of NK cells that were GFP at 7 11 days after transduction was 69 43 93 . Chimeric receptors were expressed at high levels on the surface of NK cells and by Western blotting were in both monomeric and dimeric configurations.

To identify the specific signals required to stimulate NK cells with chimeric receptors and overcome inhibitory signals mediated by KIR molecules and other NK inhibitory receptors that bind to HLA class I molecules we first compared two types of chimeric receptors containing different signaling domains CD3 a signal transducing molecule containing three immunoreceptor tyrosine based activation motifs ITAMs and linked to several activating receptors expressed on the surface of NK cells Farag S S Fehniger T A Ruggeri L Velardi A Caligiuri M A. Natural killer cell receptors new biology and insights into the graft versus leukemia effect. Blood 100 1935 1947 2002 Moretta L Moretta A. Unravelling natural killer cell function triggering and inhibitory human NK receptors. EMBO J 23 255 259 2004 and DAP 10 a signal transducing molecule with no ITAMs linked to the activating receptor NKG2D and previously shown to trigger NK cytotoxicity Farag S S Fehniger T A Ruggeri L Velardi A Caligiuri M A. Natural killer cell receptors new biology and insights into the graft versus leukemia effect. Blood 100 1935 1947 2002 Moretta L Moretta A. Unravelling natural killer cell function triggering and inhibitory human NK receptors. EMBO J 23 255 259 2004 Billadeau D D Upshaw J L Schoon R A Dick C J Leibson P J. NKG2D DAPIO triggers human NK cell mediated killing via a Syk independent regulatory pathway. Nat. Immuno. 4 557 564 2003 . As a control we used NK cells transduced with a vector containing an antiCD19 receptor but no signaling molecules or containing GFP alone.

NK cells were challenged with the CD19 leukemic cell lines 380 697 and RS4 11 all of which express high levels of HLA class I molecules by antibody staining. By genotyping RS4 11 is Cw4 Cw3 Bw4 and A3 380 is Cw4 Cw4 Bw4 and 697 is Cw3 Cw3. Hence these cell lines were fully capable of inhibiting NK cell cytotoxicity via binding to NK inhibitory receptors.

Expression of receptors without signaling molecules did not increase NK mediated cytotoxicity over that exerted by NK cells transduced with the vector containing only GFP. By contrast expression of anti CD 19 receptors markedly enhanced NK cytotoxicity in all experiments regardless of the intrinsic ability of donor NK cells to kill leukemic targets. For example 380 cells were highly resistant to NK cells from donors 2 and 3 but were killed when these donor cells expressed anti CD 19 receptors. Similar observations were made for RS4 11 cells and the NK cells of donor 1 and for 697 cells and NK cells of donor 2. Moreover the anti CD 19 receptors led to improved killing of target cells even when natural cytotoxicity was present. In all experiments the cytotoxicity triggered by the anti CD 19 receptor was enhanced over that achieved by replacing CD3 with DAP 10 P

Previous studies have shown that the addition of costimulatory molecules to chimeric receptors enhances the proliferation and cytotoxicity of T lymphocytes Imai C Mihara K Andreansky M Nicholson I C Pui C H Campana D. Chimeric receptors with 4 1BB signaling capacity provoke potent cytotoxicity against acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Leukemia 18 676 684 2004 . Of the two best known costimulatory molecules in T lymphocytes CD28 and 4 1BB only 4 1BB is expressed by NK cells Melero I Johnston J V Shufford W W Mittler R S Chen L. NKLI cells express 4 1BB CDwl37 costimulatory molecule and are required for tumor immunity elicited by anti 4 1BB monoclonal antibodies. Cell Immunol 1998 190 167 172 1998 Lang S Vujanovic N L Wollenberg B Whiteside T L. Absence of B7.1 CD28 CTLA 4 mediated co stimulation in human NK cells. Eur J Immunol 28 780 786 1998 Goodier M R Londei M. CD28 is not directly involved in the response of human CD3CD56 natural killer cells to lipopolysaccharide a role for T cells. Immunology 111 384 390 2004 . We determined whether the addition of 4 1 BB to the anti CD 19 receptor would enhance NK cytotoxicity. In a 4 hour cytotoxicity assay cells expressing the 41BB augmented receptor showed a markedly better ability to kill CD 19 cells than did cells lacking this modification. The superiority of NK cells bearing the anti CD 19 BB receptor was also evident in 24 hour assays with NK cells from different donors cultured at a 1 1 ratio with the leukemia cell lines 697 KOPN57bi and OP 1.

Next we determined whether the antileukemic activity of NK cells expressing antiCD19 BB receptors extended to primary leukemic samples. In five samples from children with different molecular species of ALL NK cells expressing the 4 1BB receptors exerted strong cytotoxicity that was evident even at low E T ratios e.g. 

We asked whether the expression of signaling chimeric receptors would affect spontaneous NK activity against NK sensitive cell lines not expressing CD 19. Spontaneous cytotoxicity of NK cells from three donors against the CD 19 leukemia cell lines K562 U937 and CEM C7 was not diminished by expression of chimeric receptors with or without 4 1BB.

To determine whether the NK cell expansion and transduction system that we developed would be applicable to clinical samples we studied peripheral blood samples that had been obtained and cryopreserved from four patients with childhood B lineage ALL in clinical remission 25 56 weeks from diagnosis. NK cell expansion occur in all four samples recovery of after one week of culture with K562 mbl5 41BBL cells recovery of CD56 CD3 NK cells ranged from 1350 to 3680 of the input.

After transduction with chimeric receptors we tested the cytotoxicity of the NK cells against autologous leukemic lymphoblasts obtained at diagnosis. Expression of anti CD 19 BB receptors overcame NK cell resistance of autologous cells NK cells expressing the receptors exerted cytotoxicity which was as powerful as that observed with allogeneic targets.

In this study we demonstrated that the resistance of cancer cells to NK cell activity can be overcome by chimeric receptors expressed on primary NK cells. The stimulatory signals triggered by the receptors upon contact with target cells predominated over inhibitory signals and induced powerful cytotoxicity against NK resistant leukemic cell lines and primary leukemic cells. We found that the type of stimulatory signal delivered by the chimeric receptor was a key factor in inducing cytotoxicity. Although DAP 10 signaling can elicit NK cytotoxicity chimeric receptors containing this molecule in our study induced weaker NK cell activity than that generated by CD3 containing receptors despite identical levels of surface expression. We also found that addition of the costimulatory molecule 4 1BB to the chimeric receptors markedly augmented cytotoxicity and that receptors containing both CD3 and 4 1BB triggered a much more robust NK cell activation and cytokine production than did those containing only CD3 .

The important contribution of 4 1 BB signals agrees with findings that anti 4 I BB antibodies activate murine NK cells Pan P Y et al. Regulation of dendritic cell function by NK cells mechanisms underlying the synergism in the combination therapy of IL 12 and 4 1BB activation. J Immunol 172 4779 4789 2004 and enhance their anti tumor activity. Leukemic lymphoid cells usually do not express 4 1BB ligand only 2 of 284 diagnostic B lineage ALL samples studied by gene arrays at our institution expressed 4 I BB ligand transcripts Yeoh E J et al. Classification subtype discovery and prediction of outcome in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia by gene expression profiling. Cancer Cell 1 133 143 2002 . Hence 4 1BB signals can be delivered to NK cells only if the molecule is incorporated into the receptor.

Efficient and stable transduction of primary NK cells is notoriously difficult prompting us to devise a new gene transduction method for the present study. Most investigators have demonstrated efficient gene transfer only in continuously growing NK cell lines Roberts M R et al. Antigen specific cytolysis by neutrophils and NK cells expressing chimeric immune receptors bearing zeta or gamma signaling domains. J. Immunol. 161 375 384 1998 Nagashima S et al. Stable transduction of the interleukin 2 gene into human natural killer cell lines and their phenotypic and functional characterization in vitro and in vivo. Blood 91 3850 3861 1998 or reported methods yielding only transient gene expression Billadeau D D et al. NKG2D DAP 10 triggers human NK cell mediated killing via a Syk independent regulatory pathway. Nat. Immuno. 4 557 564 2003 Trompeter H I et al. Rapid and highly efficient gene transfer into natural killer cells by nucleofection. J Immunol Methods 274 245 256 2003 Schroers R et al. Gene transfer into human T lymphocytes and natural killer cells by Ad5 F35 chimeric adenoviral vectors. Exp Hematol 32 536 546 2004 . We achieved stable expression of chimeric receptors in primary CD56 CD3 NK cells by using an RD114 pseudotyped retroviral vector and specifically expanding primary CD56 CD3 NK cells before they were exposed to the retrovirus a step that allowed highly efficient gene expression. Although several cytokines such as IL 2 IL 12 and IL 15 have been reported to stimulate NK cells Carson W E et al. A potential role for interleukin 15 in the regulation of human natural killer cell survival J Clin Invest. 99 937 943 1997 Trinchieri G et al. Response of resting human peripheral blood natural killer cells to interleukin 2. J Exp Med 1984 160 1147 1169 1984 Naume B et al. A comparative study of IL 12 cytotoxic lymphocyte maturation factor IL 2 and IL 7 induced effects on immunomagnetically purified CD56 NK cells. J Immunol 148 2429 2436 1992 their capacity to induce proliferation of resting CD56CD3 cells has been poor unless accessory cells are present in the cultures. Perussia et al. Nat Immun Cell Growth Regul 6 171 188 1987 found that contact with irradiated B lymphoblastoid cells induced as high as a 25 fold expansion of NK cells after 2 weeks of stimulation while Miller et al. Blood 80 2221 2229 1992 reported an approximate 30 fold expansion of NK cells after 18 days of culture with 1000 U mL IL 2 and monocytes. However these culture conditions are likely to promote the growth of CD3 T lymphocytes as well as NK cells. Since our ultimate aim is to generate pure preparations for out donor NK cells devoid of CD3 T lymphocytes that can be infused into recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants we searched for methods that would maximize NK cell expansion without producing T cell mitogenicity.

Contact with K562 cells which lack MHC class I molecule expression and hence do not trigger KIR mediated inhibitory signals in NK cells is known to augment NK cell

proliferation in response to IL 15. We found that membrane bound IL 15 and 4 1BBL coexpressed by K562 cells acted synergistically to augment K562 specific NK stimulatory capacity resulting in vigorous expansion of peripheral blood CD56 CD3NK cells without concomitant growth of T lymphocytes. After 2 3 weeks of culture we observed NK cell expansions of up to 10 000 fold and virtually pure populations of NK cells could be obtained even without the need for T cell depletion in some cases. NK cells expanded in this system retained the immunophenotypic diversity seen among peripheral blood subsets of NK cells as well as their natural cytotoxicity against sensitive target cells even after transduction with different chimeric receptors. Hence this system should help studies of NK cell biology which require specific cell expansion and or gene transduction but it should also be adaptable to clinical applications after generating K562 mb 15 4 1 BBL cells that comply with current good manufacturing practices for clinical trials. Recently Harada et al. reported that expansions of CD56 CD3 cells up to 400 fold after 2 weeks were apparently superior after contact with another HLA class I negative cell line the Wilms tumor cell line HFWT Harada H Saijo K Watanabe S et al. Selective expansion of human natural killer cells from peripheral blood mononuclear cells by the cell line HFWT. Jpn J Cancer Res 93 313 2002 . Future studies should determine whether HFWT cells express 41BBL or whether enforced expression of 4 1BBL together with IL 15 results in a greater specific expansion of NK cells than seen with modified K562 cells.

In the context of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation infusions of activated donor T cells would carry an unacceptably high risk of severe GvHD particularly in recipients of haploidentical or mismatched transplants. By contrast infusions of pure CD56 CD3 NK cells should not impose that risk Ruggeri L et al. Effectiveness of donor natural killer cell alloreactivity in mismatched hematopoietic transplants. Science 295 2097 2100 2002 . Most clinical studies of the therapeutic effects of NK cells have been performed in an autologous setting and have yielded only moderately promising results Farag S S et al. Natural killer cell receptors new biology and insights into the graft versus leukemia effect. Blood 100 1935 1947 2002 Chiorean E G Miller J S. The biology of natural killer cells and implications for therapy of human disease. J Hematother Stem Cell Res 10 451 463 2001 . This is not surprising because NK cell activity is inhibited by surface receptors that recognize autologous HLA molecules expressed by both normal and neoplastic cells. Allogeneic NK cells may be more effective but even in an allogeneic setting the capacity of NK cells to kill malignant lymphoid cells is generally modest and often negligible Caligiuri M A Velardi A Scheinberg D A Borrello I M. Immunotherapeutic approaches for hematologic malignancies. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 337 353 2004 . Leung et al. J Immunol 172 644 650 2004 detected NK cytotoxicity against an ALL cell line expressing particularly low levels of inhibitory HLA molecules but cytotoxicity was much lower than that observed against the NK cell target K562 only about 50 of the ALL cells were killed at an effector target ratio of 40 1. In that study RS4 11 cells which express HLA C alleles that bind the most commonly expressed KIRs were NK resistant whereas these cells as well as autologous leukemic cells were highly sensitive to NK cells expressing anti CD 19 signaling receptors in our study. NK cells expressing signaling chimeric receptors have much more powerful antileukemic activity than unmodified NK cells and can kill target cells irrespective of their HLA profile. An increased understanding of the signals leading to immune cell activation together with progress in gene cloning and transfer have made the treatment of cancer with adoptively acquired immunity a realistic goal. Clinical precedents such as administration of T cell clones that target cytomegalovirus epitopes Walter E A et al. Reconstitution of cellular immunity against cytomegalovirus in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow by transfer of T cell clones from the donor. N Engl J Med 1995 333 1038 1044 1995 or EBV specific antigens Rooney C M et al. Use of gene modified virus specific T lymphocytes to control Epstein Barr virus related lymphoproliferation. Lancet 345 9 13 1995 attest to the clinical feasibility of adoptive immune cell therapy. Nonetheless there are potential limitations that may affect the effectiveness of cell therapy guided by chimeric receptors. One is that the murine scFv portion of the chimeric receptor or the fusion sites of the human regions that compose it may trigger a host immune response leading to elimination of the modified cells Sadelain M et al. Targeting tumours with genetically enhanced T lymphocytes. Nat Rev Cancer 3 35 45 2003 . Although the impact of such an event in a clinical setting remains to be determined we anticipate that immune responses against modified NK cells will be limited in immune suppressed patients after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Another potential limitation is that adoptively transferred cells may have inadequate persistence in vivo although a recent study showed that NK cells obtained from haploidentical donors and activated ex vivo could expand in patients when infused after administration of high dose cyclophosphamide and fludarabine which caused an increased in endogenous IL 15 Miller J S et al. Successful adoptive transfer and in vivo expansion of human haploidentical NK cells in cancer patients. Blood in press 2005 . We speculate that such expansions would also occur with genetically modified NK cells and suggest that further studies to identify signaling molecules that promote NK cell proliferation when incorporated into chimeric receptors are warranted. In patients at a high risk of leukemia or lymphoma relapse the expected benefits of genetically modified NK cells will outweigh the risk of insertional oncogenesis posed by the use of retroviruses for chimeric receptor transduction Baum C et al. Side effects of retroviral gene transfer into hematopoietic stem cells. Blood 101 2099 2114 2003 . We also predict that the coexpression of suicide genes will become a useful safety measure in clinical studies Marktel S et al. Immunologic potential of donor lymphocytes expressing a suicide gene for early immune reconstitution after hematopoietic T cell depleted stem cell transplantation. Blood 101 1290 1298 2003 this strategy would also ensure that the elimination of normal CD 19 B lineage cells is only temporary.

Novel therapies that bypass cellular mechanisms of drug resistance are urgently needed for patients with refractory leukemia and lymphoma. NK cell alloreactivity is a powerful new tool for improving the therapeutic potential of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The results of this study indicate that signaling receptors can enhance the efficacy of NK cell alloreactivity and widen its applicability. We envisage initial clinical trials in which donor NK cells collected by apheresis are expanded ex vivo as described here transduced with chimeric receptors and then infused after transplantation in patients with B lineage ALL. The target molecule for the chimeric receptors CD19 was selected because it is one of the most widely expressed surface antigens among B cell malignancies including ALL CLL and NHL. In these malignancies CD19 is highly expressed on the surface of virtually all cells but has limited or no expression in normal tissues Campana D Behm F G. Immunophenotyping of leukemia. J Immunol Methods 243 59 75 2000 . However the NK cell strategy of immunotherapy we describe would not have to be directed to the CD 19 antigen but could be applied to any of the numerous molecules identified as potential targets for chimeric receptor based cell therapy in cancer patients.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification including but not limited to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 960 264 filed Sep. 20 2001 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 981 352 filed Nov. 4 2004 are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. All of references patents patent applications etc. cited above are incorporated herein in their entirety.

