---

title: Conversion service for data dragged on web-sites
abstract: A service performs transformation for material that has been dragged in one format from a web-site and has to be transformed first in order to be dropped onto a different web-page. The transformation makes it possible for the target (drop) page to understand and process the data. A target page need only support one format rather than numerous possible formats used by source pages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504931&OS=08504931&RS=08504931
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08504931
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
The vast majority of computing devices today have a graphical user interface GUI built on the what you see is what you get WYSIWYG principle. Users have come to expect a high degree of interoperability between programs even if they come from different sources and are designed to perform different functions.

Different programs and types of programs utilize different formats for similar objects and content whether the graphically or alphanumerically. Therefore the content of an object dragged and dropped from one type of program to another or even between similar programs of different providers is often not recognized and utilized by the receiving program. In other words something dropped from a first page or program may not look like it originally did or contain the relevant data and formatting that it originally possessed.

A service performs transformation for material that has been dragged in one format from a web site and has to be transformed first in order to be dropped onto a different web page. The transformation makes it possible for the target drop page to understand and process the data. A target page need only support one format rather than numerous possible formats used by source pages. At the same time the data transformation service can act as a security proxy and filter details out or warn if sensitive data has been dragged.

One embodiment relates to a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to facilitate drag and drop operations in a graphic user interface. The method comprises detecting the start of a drag operation at a first location attaching material in a first format at the first location to be dragged to a second location detecting an indication of a drop operation at the second location determining a second format required at the second location determining if a conversion path exists from the first format to the second format and if a conversion path is determined to exist converting the material from the first format to the second format as part of a drop operation.

Another embodiment relates to a computer implemented method for analyzing a plurality of groupings of material and providing information relevant to the plurality of groupings. The method comprises detecting the start of a drag operation at a first location of a first grouping of material indicative of an address or location receiving the material from the first location in the first format at the drag bar detecting the start of a drag operation at a second location of a second grouping of material indicative of a good or service desired receiving the material from the second location at the drag bar and coalescing the material received at the drag bar into a serviceable query.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific embodiments of the invention including the best modes contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention is described in conjunction with these specific embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In addition well known features may not have been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the invention.

Microformats are a set of simple open data formats built upon existing and widely adopted standards. Numerous different microformats exist as do drafts for additional microformats. Undoubtedly additional microformats will be developed in time. Some currently available microformat open standard specifications include 

Another understanding of microformats is that they are simple conventions for embedding semantics in HTML to enable decentralized development. For more information on these and other microformats please refer to the microformats.org web site available at www.microformats.org wiki Main Page.

Additionally numerous proprietary formats exist and will be developed in time. Embodiments of the invention can convert between different formats including open and proprietary data formats. The term microformat for purposes of this application shall include open and proprietary formats and shall be used interchangeably with the term format.

Referring to in step a drag operation is started by the user. The data or material the user wishes to drag has a source format A. The drag start operation commenced by the user is detected by the user s browser at user device host and conversion service . In one embodiment drag hovering and drop are detected by monitoring onDragStart onDragOver and onDrop events of a browser.

In step the user hovers over target with target format A. The hovering operation is detected and indicates that a drop operation is imminent. Note that the format A of the material being dragged is different than the format A that the target page will accept. Upon sensing that the drop operation is imminent the host will query the conversion service to determine if a conversion path exists from source format A to target format A. If the conversion service determines that a conversion path does not exist in step it will transmit this information to the host which in turn will transmit the information to the user device . A browser of other user interface within device will indicate that because no conversion path exists that a proper drop operation is not possible as seen in step . In certain embodiments this is done with a visual image at the cursor an example of which is shown in . While the user may decide to release the cursor and perform the drop in any case he will be aware that a conversion path does not exist and that the target page will not receive the dragged material in the format it requires. For example if a target receiving area is prepared to receive the format of a calendar item but instead receives an image or geographic coordinates the fields of the calendar item will not be properly filled in or completed as will be discussed below in more detail. The user may thus decide not to complete the impending drop or alternatively to proceed with the drop.

If a conversion path does exist as determined in step and the user proceeds with the drop conversion service alone or in conjunction with web server will convert the material from format A to format A during the drop operation as seen in step . In step the converted material will be manipulated as necessary to execute the drop. This may be done by web server and or user device .

In step the user hovers over a desired drop location. This is detected by the onDragOver event. Then in step script library A calls proxy script A on web server which forwards the request to an application programming interface of conversion service . In step the conversion service indicates to the web server whether a conversion path exists or not. Then in step the web server returns the yes or no answer to the user device. The user then drops the material in step and the onDrop event is noted at the user device. The script library then calls the proxy script on the web server and submits the material together with the desired target format in step . In step the proxy script forwards the material and target format to the conversion service. The conversion service then converts the format of the material in step and in step the script library of the user device gets the material in the second format and uses a script of the script library to fill in a form or other target receiving area with appropriately formatted material. Any scripts and script language may be utilized although Javascripts are utilized in a preferred embodiment. The conversion service may also act as a security proxy and filter details out or warn if sensitive data has been dragged.

Window has an area for receiving geo coordinates. The form thus asks the conversion service to convert the hCard to geo coordinates. In one embodiment the conversion service accesses a map database or service to return geo coordinates and upon drop the geo coordinates are entered in area .

Window has an area for receiving airport codes. The conversion service will therefore lookup the nearest airport and return the airport code which will then be entered upon the drop.

Then the user drags all three icons and the underlying material in one drag operation to a search engine as seen in window . The conversion service will upon drop work in conjunction with the search engine to determine a provider of the pizza representing a desired good or service willing accept the method of payment and to deliver provide the good or service the pizza to the address specified by the business card. In one embodiment the conversion service coalesces the material and formulates a query e.g. pizza delivery near address and pizza type a b c with items xyz . In another embodiment the conversion service is integrated into the search provider facilities. Note that establishments may have proprietary formats as mentioned earlier. For example Pizza Hut may have one format for specifying what style crust and what toppings are requested whereas Domino s and California Pizza Kitchen may have another. These proprietary formats may be converted to a open pizza good or service format which can then be dropped into the search field of the search page.

As seen in window the search engine returns results indicating what providers will accept the method of payment and provide the specified good or service. In this example the specification further includes those providers offering delivery. The user can then click on or drag and drop an icon of a provider to execute a transaction. Window illustrates order confirmation.

In material in the hCard format may be undergo conversion extractions or lookup by the conversion service. Extractions and lookup may be considered part of the conversion or separate processes. The start time date end time date event name title and location of a calendar item may be extracted from hCalendar . Some material however cannot be extracted from certain formats and needs to be looked up. For example geographic coordinates the nearest airport and a picture or image of a location can be looked up based upon the hCalendar material. The picture may comprise the picture itself and or a link to the picture url to picture . The hCalendar item may be convered to for example the iCal format comprising javascript object or LDAP text format .

An open non proprietary format for a good in this example an Apizza format and the material therein is shown in . Again extractions lookups and conversions may occur. Ingredients crust a name title for the pizza toppings shape round square etc. and image may be extracted. Other material such as an image picture may be looked up if extraction is not possible or desirable. The picture may be either an image file such as a bitmap etc. or a link . Material from the Apizza format may be converted to text or into other formats such as Domino s proprietary format or Pizza Hut s format .

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that changes in the form and details of the disclosed embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.

In addition although various advantages aspects and objects of the present invention have been discussed herein with reference to various embodiments it will be understood that the scope of the invention should not be limited by reference to such advantages aspects and objects. Rather the scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the appended claims.

