---

title: Cam actuated brake mechanism for adjustable beam trolley
abstract: A brake mechanism for a beam trolley on a beam has a body member on the beam trolley adjacent the beam. The body member has a recess and axially aligned bores and a rotatable lateral pin extends through the aligned bores. The lateral pin has a rotatable elongate cam portion extending across the recess, and a brake pad is in the recess adjacent to the beam and abutting the cam portion. A handle is connected to the lateral pin for rotating the pin and the cam portion to displace the brake pad against the beam. The brake pad frictionally secures the beam trolley on the beam and locks the rotatable cam in place. Rounded end portions on opposite ends of the lateral pin and sleeve-like bushings between the axially aligned bores and rounded end portions permit rotation of the cam portion by the handle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453802&OS=08453802&RS=08453802
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08453802
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080714
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention is for securing a beam trolley on an I beam or H beam. More particularly this invention is to a adjustable width beam hoist trolley having a manually activated friction brake to selectively and safely secure a loaded or unloaded beam trolley at a selected position along the length of the beam.

Adjustable beam trolleys are industry standard devices for permanent or temporary mounting of a hoist on a standard I beam or H beam. The beam trolleys provide vertical support and permit linear motion of the supported load as the trolley rolls along the length of the beam. Many adjustable beam trolleys are commercially available from a number of manufacturers and are called adjustable because they can be adjusted to accommodate differently sized I and H beams. show a typical commercially available adjustable beam trolley having a pair of steel side plates shaped with end bumpers and each side plate mounts a pair of load bearing trolley wheels on steel axles . A heavy duty threaded steel bolt having secured end nuts abutting the outsides of side plates laterally extends through round openings not shown provided in both of side plates and aligned bores not shown in inward extensions of side plates . A steel load bearing hoist mount is mounted midway on threaded bolt where it extends between inward extensions to receive and support a manual or automatic chain hoist connected to a load not shown .

The contemporary beam trolleys such as those described above do not have a suitable operator controlled means for fixedly securing them to the load bearing beams. This can create unsafe lifting of loads by the trolley and hazardous stowage of an unused unsecured trolley under unstable ambient conditions such as on those encountered on a ship underway at sea.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for an operator actuated means to secure a beam trolley to a load bearing beam to prevent unwanted travel of the trolley along the beam.

The present invention provides a cam actuated brake mechanism that allows an operator to selectively secure a beam trolley on a supporting beam. The brake mechanism has a body member on the beam trolley adjacent to the beam. The body member has a recess and axially aligned bores and a rotatable lateral pin extends through the aligned bores. The lateral pin has a rotatable elongate cam portion extending across the recess and a brake pad is in the recess adjacent to the beam and abutting the cam portion. A handle is connected to the lateral pin for rotating the pin and the cam portion to displace the brake pad against the beam. The brake pad frictionally secures the beam trolley on the beam and locks the rotatable cam in place. Rounded end portions on opposite ends of the lateral pin and sleeve like bushings between the axially aligned bores and rounded end portions permit rotation of the cam portion by the handle. A pair of coiled springs in the recess urges the brake pad away from the body member upward and outward and the springs have securing means at opposite ends for coupling the springs to the brake pad and body member at the bottom of the recess. A load bearing hoist mount is integrally formed with the body member for bearing a load and is mounted midway on a laterally extending threaded bolt of the beam trolley. The body member has a transverse bore having the bolt extending through it and the transverse bore hoist mount cam portion and brake pad are in an essentially in line arrangement in the brake mechanism to reduce generation of destabilizing torques.

An object of the invention is to provide a cam actuated brake mechanism that allows an operator to selectively secure a beam trolley on a supporting beam.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cam actuated brake mechanism to secure a loaded or unloaded beam trolley along the length of a supporting I or H beam.

Another object of the invention is to provide a brake mechanism capable of accommodating commercially available beam trolleys to provide for improved safety and handling.

Another object of the invention is to provide a brake mechanism for modifying a number of commercially available beam trolleys to improve safety and handling without compromising their inherent load bearing capabilities.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to in conjunction with a cam actuated brake mechanism is mounted on a beam trolley to engage an I or H beam to selectively secure a loaded or unloaded beam trolley on beam . While the beam as illustrated and described herein is an I or H beam it should be understood that the present invention will operate on any suitable beam having a flange on which a typical trolley can operate.

Brake mechanism has an essentially cylindrically shaped steel body member having a transverse bore and an integral load bearing hoist mount for bearing a load . Hoist mount is mounted midway on laterally extending threaded bolt of beam trolley which extends through transverse bore . Some or all of spacer washers of beam trolley may also have to be removed when hoist mount of brake mechanism is included to keep the proper spacing of components of beam trolley on beam . This feature of brake mechanism of the invention allows the accommodation and modification of a number of commercially available beam trolleys and gives these modified devices improved safety and handling without compromising their inherent capabilities.

Referring also to body member is machined to form an upwardly facing exposed recess to receive a semi rigid brake pad . Brake pad can be fabricated from a wide variety of known tough wear resistant composite materials and could be provided with a rigid backing component if desired to assure braking of brake mechanism and any attached load on beam . Brake pad is supported from the bottom of the recess by a pair of coiled springs or other resilient means that urges pad away from body member and upward and outward from recess adjacent to and preferably abutting beam . Springs can be secured by appropriate mechanical or adhesive securing means known in the art to brake pad and body member at bottom . Springs help retain brake pad in recess and maintain the alignment of brake pad with beam to ensure that brake pad contacts flat against beam and to prevent the possibility of the pad s sticking in any one position during actuation of brake mechanism by handle .

Body member has aligned bores and in communication with recess to receive a lateral pin . Lateral pin is preferably machined from a piece of steel or other tough stock to have axially aligned cylindrical end portions and that are concentric with a central axis of lateral pin . Sleeve like bushings and are placed respectively between bores and and end portions and to permit selective bidirectional rotation of lateral pin . Lateral pin is also machined with an elongate cam portion that has a cross sectional shape that is not concentric with central axis and extends between end portions and in recess . Cam portion is adjacent to and abuts brake pad in recess . When cam portion of pin is rotated cam portion moves eccentrically to overcome the biasing force of springs and displaces or lifts brake pad away from bottom of recess to engage lower surface of beam as shown in . During assembly of brake mechanism the cross sectional dimensions of cam portion permit its insertion into recess through either of bores or .

A rigid handle is securely connected to pin by a tightened threaded bolt inserted through handle in line with central axis . Rotation of handle by an operator to the normal operating position shown in rotates cam portion to displace brake pad sufficiently to engage lower surface of beam . In the normal operating position handle is slightly off center from vertical and the force of gravity on handle causes just enough pressure to be exerted by cam portion to maintain light contact between brake pad and lower surface of beam . This contact is with sufficient frictional force to hold cam portion in place on brake pad and create enough drag to restrict an unloaded beam trolley from undesired motion along beam by the influences of light ambient wind or roll of a ship underway for example.

However when a load must be positively secured under more intense ambient conditions and the trolley needs to be prevented from rolling in either direction the operator forcefully rotates handle to the locked position shown in . Cam portion is rotated to displace brake pad sufficiently to create a large amount of brake friction between brake pad and lower surface . This large amount of frictional force securely engages and locks brake pad onto beam and prevents a loaded beam trolley from moving. To reset brake mechanism from the locked position an operator simply swings rigid handle to the normal or rest position. In either the normal or locked position cam portion is subjected to sufficient friction from brake pad and brake pad is made from a suitable known material as to be self locking or hold it in place and maintain brake force. Therefore cam portion is unable to counter rotate to disengage free without additional counter rotational force being applied to the handle by an operator.

Cam actuated brake mechanism provides positive locking of a beam trolley to allow safe lifting of loads under unstable conditions such as while a ship is proceeding underway at sea. Transverse bore hoist mount cam portion and brake pad are disposed in an essentially vertical in line arrangement along the length of brake mechanism to reduce or eliminate the generation of destabilizing torques during actuation of brake mechanism . Thus the reliable engagement of beam by brake mechanism is not destabilized or otherwise compromised. Cam actuated brake mechanism can be adapted to a number of commercially available beam trolleys to assure a higher level of safety and reliability.

It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

