---

title: Portable device battery optimization routing system
abstract: A battery life management unit for managing the battery life of a portable device. The battery life management unit determines a scheduled event for a user of a portable device and estimates whether battery power of the portable device will last throughout the scheduled event. If the battery power of the portable device is estimated not to last throughout the scheduled event, the battery life management unit determines whether a location of the scheduled event provides one or more battery charging resources. If the location of the scheduled event provides one or more battery charging resources, the battery life management unit reserves a battery charging resource for the user of the portable device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08224596&OS=08224596&RS=08224596
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08224596
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
Embodiments of the inventive subject matter generally relate to the field of power management systems and more particularly to a portable device battery optimization system.

Portable electronics have become a necessity for consumers both for personal and business use. One of the main limitations of portable devices is battery life. Manufacturers of portable devices are continually challenged to maintain battery life at acceptable levels as the physical dimensions of portable devices shrink and the processing requirements increase. When operating a portable device even a portable device with superior battery life the user has to remain conscious of the power status of the battery. When the portable device is operated on battery power for an extended amount of time the user has to remember to bring a backup battery source if available. For example in a business context an employee may have to bring a backup battery pack for a laptop if a meeting or conference is projected to last longer than the battery life of the laptop. Furthermore after operating the portable device on battery power for an extended amount of time the user has to remember to charge the battery before once again operating the portable device on battery power or risk the portable device running out of power.

Various embodiments are disclosed of a method for managing the battery life of a portable device. In one embodiment a battery life management unit determines a scheduled event for a user of a portable device and estimates whether battery power of the portable device will last throughout the scheduled event. If the battery power of the portable device is estimated not to last throughout the scheduled event the battery life management unit determines whether a location of the scheduled event provides one or more battery charging resources. If the location of the scheduled event provides one or more battery charging resources the battery life management unit reserves a battery charging resource for the user of the portable device.

The description that follows includes exemplary systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computer program products that embody techniques of the present inventive subject matter. However it is understood that the described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For instance although examples refer to a battery life management unit implemented within a portable device e.g. a laptop it is noted that in other embodiments the battery life management unit may be implemented within a network server or in a distributed manner across various network devices. In other instances well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obfuscate the description.

Various embodiments are disclosed of a system and method for managing the battery life of a portable device. In one embodiment a battery life management unit monitors the schedule or itinerary of a user of the portable device and manages the battery life of the portable device such that the user has enough battery power to operate the portable device during one or more scheduled events. The battery life management unit automatically estimates whether the battery power will last throughout a scheduled event based on various criteria e.g. duration of the scheduled event device attributes role of the user during the scheduled event etc. . The battery life management unit reserves a battery charging resource e.g. power outlet wireless charging etc. at the event location for the user of the portable device and or recommends the user to take certain steps to help prevent the user from running out of power during the scheduled event.

In various implementations the battery life management unit is software e.g. an application programming interface API a downloadable plug in etc. that obtains and analyzes information from various device resources such as the user calendar the user profile database the power status unit and the device attributes database and various network resources such as the organization reservation system and the organization information database to improve management of the battery life associated with the portable device . In one example the user calendar is a software application used to store a user s schedule and therefore may provide information such as the duration and location of a scheduled event and the role of the user with respect to a scheduled event. The user profile database is user profile data stored in memory or on a hard disk that provides a variety of information about the user of the portable device such as the occupation and title within an organization the number of years of service a photo of the user the user s resume etc. The power status unit is a software mechanism that monitors the power status power scheme and other power settings of the battery of the portable device . The device attribute database is device attribute data stored in memory or on a hard disk that provides a variety of information about the portable device such as manufacturer and model information processing speed power consumption etc. The organization reservation system is a system implemented by an organization or other entity that allows organization members employees and or guests to reserve seats and battery charging resources at various locations within the one or more facilities of the organization e.g. conference rooms or auditoriums used for organization events. The organization information database is organization related data stored in memory or on a hard disk that provides a variety of information about the organization such as organizational chart facility information e.g. conference room resources organization member profiles and resumes etc.

It is noted however that in other implementations the battery life management unit may comprises both hardware and software elements. It is also noted that the device and network resources described above may also provide additional information and functions e.g. the reservation system may provide an organizational calendar of events and a feature to schedule and organize events. Furthermore it is noted that the term database has been employed for ease of illustration and narrow construction of the term should not be used to limit embodiments. The data stored in these example databases can be stored in accordance with any of a variety of data structures and types of data stores e.g. a hardware table directory etc. .

In one implementation at stage A the battery life management unit utilizes the user calendar to identify one or more scheduled events for the user of the portable device e.g. events scheduled within the next four hours on a particular day or all events scheduled that day. At stage B the battery life management unit accesses at least some of the device resources e.g. the user calendar and the device attributes database and implements one or more analysis algorithms to estimate whether the battery power will last throughout the one or more scheduled events. At stage C if the battery power is estimated not to last throughout the one or more scheduled events the battery life management unit uses the reservation system to reserve a battery charging resource e.g. a power outlet at the location of the scheduled event e.g. a conference room for the user of the portable device as will be further described below with reference to .

It should be noted that the components described with reference to are meant to be exemplary only and are not intended to limit the inventive subject matter to any specific set of components or configurations. For example in various embodiments one or more of the components described may be omitted combined modified or additional components included as desired. For instance in some embodiments the battery life management unit may be implemented in a network server e.g. the server via the Internet and or in a distributed manner across some or all network components. It is further noted that in some implementations additional device and or network resources may be accessed by the battery life management unit e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS unit for location awareness.

At block it is determined whether the battery power of the portable device will last throughout a scheduled event. For instance in the example described above the battery life management unit determines whether the battery power of the portable device will last throughout the presentation scheduled from 10 am 12 pm. In one implementation the battery life management unit determines whether the battery power will last throughout the scheduled event based at least in part on portable device attributes and metrics duration of the scheduled event user role during the scheduled event projected portable device usage during scheduled event available power schemes and current or projected starting battery power among others. In one example the battery life management unit may determine that the portable device is a laptop projected to have full battery power when the presentation starts at 10 am. In this example the battery life management unit may also determine that the user is the presenter and will use several power hungry applications during the two hour presentation. Based on this information obtained from the device resources the battery life management unit may determine that the battery power will not last throughout the scheduled presentation.

Furthermore in some implementation the battery life management unit may determine whether there is enough time in between scheduled events to charge the battery. For instance in the example described above the battery life management unit may determine that an hour in between the presentation meeting and the lunch meeting is enough time to charge the battery. The battery life management unit may also estimate whether the battery will last throughout two or more back to back events. In the above example if the battery is estimated to be fully charged for the lunch meeting at 1 pm the battery life management unit can estimate whether a fully charged battery will last throughout both the lunch meeting at 1 pm and the group meeting at 2 pm.

At block if the battery power is estimated to last throughout the scheduled event e.g. the scheduled two hour presentation or a scheduled two hour flight the battery life management unit causes the portable device to automatically switch to a preferred power scheme e.g. a presentation power scheme and the process ends. In another example the battery life management unit may prompt the user to select from a list of suggested power schemes that may result in the battery lasting throughout the scheduled event.

If the battery power is estimated not to last throughout a scheduled event at block it is determined whether the location of the scheduled event provides one or more battery charging resources. For example the battery life management unit may access the organization information database to determine whether the location of the scheduled event offers wireless charging and or power outlets. In this example the battery life management unit may also determined whether the portable device is compatible with the battery charging resource e.g. whether a laptop is compatible to utilize the wireless charging resource. At block if the location of the scheduled event does provide one or more battery charging resources a battery charging resource is reserved for the user of the portable device and the process ends. For example the battery life management unit may access the reservation system to reserve a power outlet and a seat near the power outlet or a seat within the wireless charging area of the facility. In one embodiment the battery charging resources may be reserved on a first come first serve basis. It is noted that in some embodiments the battery life management unit may reserve battery charging resources according to an event participant priority queuing process e.g. based on the role of the user during the scheduled event as will be described further below with reference to . It is further noted that in some implementations the battery life management unit may also determine whether the event location has other resources e.g. backup battery packs.

In some cases the user of the portable device has two or more back to back scheduled events e.g. a lunch meeting at 1 pm and a group meeting at 2 pm. If the battery life management unit estimates that the battery will not last throughout the two or more back to back events in one example the battery life management unit determines whether the location of the first scheduled event or the location of the second scheduled event has battery charging resources. In this example the battery life management unit may reserve a battery charging resources at either the first scheduled event location or the second scheduled event location e.g. depending on where the battery is estimated to run out of power or at both of the first and second scheduled event locations e.g. if the battery will need charging during both events.

At block if the location of the scheduled event does not offer battery charging resources the user is prompted to take a backup battery to the scheduled event and the process ends. For example the battery life management unit may provide a notice via a pop up window email text message etc. Furthermore the battery life management may provide the user information of where to obtain a backup battery e.g. a loaner battery offered by the organization.

At block if all the battery charging resources offered at the scheduled event location are reserved a priority rating is determined for the user of the portable device based on the role of the user in the scheduled event the user s position within the hierarchy of the organization the years of service within the organization and or the importance of the work to be performed by the user during the scheduled event among others. For instance the battery life management unit assigns a priority rating from 1 to 10 based on one of the priority characteristics described above e.g. the role of the user or based on multiple priority characteristics e.g. the role of the user and hierarchy . In one example the battery life management unit may access the user s calendar to determine the role of the user during the scheduled event. If the scheduled event is a reoccurring event historical information associated with the user and the event may be accessed to determine the user s typical role during the event. In this example if the user is determined to be a presenter during the event the user is assigned a higher priority than most or all of the event participants e.g. a priority rating of 10. In another example if the user is a first line manager that will just be an observer during the event the user will have a lower priority rating e.g. priority rating of 5 than a third line manager or vice president that is attending the event as an observer e.g. priority rating of 8 .

At block it is determined whether the priority rating assigned to the user of the portable device is higher than the priority rating of other event participants that have reserved a battery charging resource. In one example the location of the scheduled event may have twelve battery charging resources e.g. power outlets reserved and the event participants with the reservations may have priority ratings ranging from 6 to 10.

At block if the user of the portable device does not have a priority rating that is higher than the event participants with a reservation the user is prompted to take a backup battery to the scheduled event. In this case since the battery life management unit has already determined that the battery power will not last throughout the scheduled event and the user does not have a high enough priority to reserve a battery charging resource the battery life management unit suggests that the user take a battery backup to make sure the user has enough power to operate the portable device throughout the event.

At block if the user of the portable device has a priority rating that is higher than at least one event participant with a reservation the reservation for the event participant with the lowest priority rating is cancelled and a battery charging resource is reserved for the user and then the process ends. For example if the user is assigned a priority rating of 7 the reservation for an event participant having a priority rating of 6 will be cancelled and the reservation will be provided to the user. In one implementation a queue is maintained of the event participants with the highest priority ratings. Since the priority ranking of the event participants can change the reservations provided to the event participants with the highest priority ratings may be temporary until a predetermined time before the scheduled event when they are made permanent. In some implementations one or more of the seats having battery charging resources may be permanently reserved for certain event participants by assigning them the highest priority ratings regardless of their priority characteristics or alternatively these event participants may be exempt from the priority queuing process e.g. a customer a new employee or an important guest.

In other implementations the priority queuing process may also provide the best seats having battery charging resources based on the priority ranking. In other words the best seat having a battery charging resource is reserved for the event participant having the highest priority rating the second best seat is reserved for the event participant having the second highest priority rating and so on. Furthermore as described above it is noted that the battery life management unit can be implemented within the portable device within the server or in a distributed manner across the various network devices e.g. across both the portable device and the server . For example the portable device may include part or all of the functionality of the battery life management unit e.g. the functionality described with reference to and the server may include part or all of the functionality of the battery life management unit e.g. the functionality described with reference to such as granting denying and cancelling reservations based on priority ratings.

At block if the battery power is running low and or projected to run out the portable devices connected to battery charging resources and the associated event participants at the scheduled event are identified. In one example the battery life management unit accesses the reservation system to identify the event participants that have reserved a battery charging resource and the seating arrangement. In another example the battery life management unit may detect the portable devices connected to the network that are utilizing battery charging resources and may identify the associated event participants by matching the detected portable devices to the owners of the portable devices e.g. employees of an organization . In one related example one of the network devices connected to server may be a webcam. The webcam may take pictures of the event participants using battery charging resources and the server may identify the associated event participants by matching the webcam pictures to those stored within a database of member employee profiles.

At block the power status of the portable devices connected to the battery charging resources and whether the associated event participants are available to share power is determined. For example the battery life management unit may determine which of the portable devices that are connected to a battery charging resource have batteries that are fully charged and determine which of the associated event participants are located nearby the user of the portable device needing power. In one implementation if an event participant that is seated nearby the user needing power is using a portable device that is connected to a battery charging resource and has a battery charge above a predetermined level the event participant may be considered available to share power. It is noted however that in other implementations the event participant may be considered available to share power even if the event participant is not located nearby the user needing power. In these implementations the user needing power may be provided with the location of the event participant and the user can determine whether to attempt to share power with the event participant.

At block the user of the portable device needing power is notified of the power sharing options. For example the battery life management unit may display a list of the event participants that are available to share power on the user s screen. The battery life management unit may also display additional information associated with the event participants e.g. the seat location of the event participants a picture of the event participants email address and job titles of the event participants etc. In one example the list of event participants that are available to share power is displayed below the power status of the portable device needing power. It noted however that in other implementations the list of available event participants may be provided to the user by other means e.g. via email instant messaging or text message.

At block a request to share power is sent to the event participant selected by the user of the portable device needing power. For example the user of the portable device needing power may select one of the available event participants from the displayed list. After the selection a window may be displayed that allows the user to type a message to the selected event participant. For example the user may ask an event participant seating two seats down whether the user can temporarily use the power outlet the event participant is currently using. In another example the user may ask the event participant whether they can switch seats so the user can access the power outlet or the wireless charging resource the event participant is currently using. The event participant can either accept or decline the request received from the user needing power.

It should be understood that the depicted flowcharts are examples meant to aid in understanding embodiments and should not be used to limit embodiments or limit scope of the claims. Embodiments may perform additional operations fewer operations operations in a different order operations in parallel and some operations differently. For instance with reference to in some embodiments the battery life management unit may determine whether each scheduled event is a social event or a business related event and or may determine whether the user typically takes the portable device during such a scheduled event based on historical information associated with the user. Furthermore with reference to in some embodiments the battery life management unit may also consider the type of portable device the user is going to use during the scheduled event. In these embodiments the battery life management unit may give higher priorities to event participants that are going to use laptops compared to event participants that are going to have PDAs or mobile phones.

Embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment a software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore embodiments of the inventive subject matter may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. The described embodiments may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic device s to perform a process according to embodiments whether presently described or not since every conceivable variation is not enumerated herein. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing machine readable storage medium or transmitting machine readable signal medium information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. In addition machine readable signal medium embodiments may be embodied in an electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or wireline wireless or other communications medium.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the embodiments may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

In one embodiment the memory unit includes a battery life management unit . The battery life management unit may be configured to determine whether the battery power of a portable device will last throughout a scheduled event and reserve a battery charging resource at the location of the scheduled event if the battery power will not last throughout the scheduled event see . The battery life management unit can also reserve the battery charging resources at the location of the scheduled event based on assigned priority ratings associated with the event participants e.g. priority ratings assigned based on the role of the user during the scheduled event see . Furthermore the battery life management unit may allow an event participant that is running out of power to identify and contact other event participants that are available to share power see .

Although shows the battery life management unit in memory the battery life management unit need not be embodied in the memory. For example the battery life management unit may reside on a CD in the CD ROM drive on the hard drive on an ASIC not shown etc. In some embodiments the computer system can include additional devices and or more than one of each component shown in e.g. video cards audio cards peripheral devices etc. . For example in some instances the computer system may include multiple processors multiple cores multiple external CPU s. In other instances components may be integrated or subdivided.

While the embodiments are described with reference to various implementations and exploitations it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the inventive subject matter is not limited to them. In general techniques for battery life management as described herein may be implemented with facilities consistent with any hardware system or hardware systems. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter. In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter.

