---

title: Contact information management
abstract: Via a graphical user interface, a user can select multiple different services (e.g., remote repositories such as websites) having contact information associated with the user's contacts (e.g., friends, Internet buddies, friends of friends, acquaintances, etc.). Based on the selection of multiple services, the contact information manager communicates with the multiple services over a network to retrieve the contact information associated with the user's friends (i.e., contacts). The retrieved contact information can specify identities of the multiple contacts as well as different communication modes (e.g., phone, e-mail, addresses information, whereabouts information, etc.) for communicating with the user's contacts. The contact information manager processes the contact information from the multiple services and initiates display of the contact information in a unified listing. Accordingly, via the contact information manager, a user can more efficiently manage contact information obtained from multiple disparate locations over a network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949278&OS=08949278&RS=08949278
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08949278
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080227
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 038 506 filed on Feb. 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 745 481 entitled AGGREGATING CONTENT FROM MULTIPLE SERVICES filed on the same day as the present application the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

The web e.g. internet has dramatically changed over the past several years. It is now easier than ever for persons all around the world to communicate with each other and exchange personal information.

For example social networking services are popular ways of enabling vast numbers of persons having similar interests to easily communicate with each other over. Such services are primarily web based and provide numerous ways for users to interact with each other. Modes of communicating can include online chatting online messaging emailing video playback voice chatting file sharing blogging discussion groups and so on.

Certain social networking services enable a user to maintain a directory of contacts so that upon visiting the social networking website the user can keep track of his or her friends at the particular service. Depending on the service a directory can include identities of persons such as a group of former classmates persons that are part of a club chat room friends etc.

In certain instances a user needs a user name and password to log onto a social networking service. This prevents unauthorized persons from obtaining a directory of friends and in theory provides at least a level of security for the different users instructions of the social networking service. After authentication of a user by a service the user can have access to their directory of friends.

In addition to maintaining and providing access to directories of friends social networking services can be configured to enable each of the users of the service to create a corresponding user profile e.g. a webpage of information that is accessible by other users of the social networking service. In certain cases a user profile can include contact information such as telephone number s e mail address es etc. for contacting the user. Additionally the profile can include playable content such as videos music links to content etc.

Upon visiting a social networking service a user can access his or her directory of friends as mentioned above. If desired the user can view profile information associated with the persons listed in the directory of friends by retrieving an information page associated with the selected friend or friends. Based on profile information such as contact information associated with a respective social networking service subscriber the user can initiate communications with the friends in the directory.

Management of remotely located contact information such as information maintained by multiple conventional social networking services suffers from a variety of deficiencies. For example currently there is no efficient way for a user to manage contact information at multiple different social networking services other than to manually and separately visit each site that maintains corresponding contact information and if desired manually retrieve the contact information and store it locally for further processing. As one may expect management of contact information in this way can be very tedious.

Techniques discussed herein significantly overcome the deficiencies of conventional contact information management applications. For example as will be discussed further certain specific embodiments herein are directed to a computer and or network environment in which a user manages his or her contact information via use of a contact information manager having access to multiple remote services. As will be discussed the contact information manager simplifies contact information management so that a user can more easily manage contact information associated with his or her friends. The contact information can include any information associated with corresponding one or more contacts. By way of a non limiting example the contact information can include addresses phone numbers e mail addresses websites etc.

More specifically according to one embodiment a contact information manager initiates display of a graphical user interface to a user. Via the graphical user interface the user can select multiple different services having contact information associated with the user s contacts. By way of a non limiting example the contacts can include friends Internet buddies friends of friends acquaintances etc. Also by way of a non limiting example the multiple different services can be remote repositories of contact information such as at social networking websites contact information storage directories etc.

Based on the selection of multiple services the contact information manager according to embodiments herein communicates with the multiple services over a network to retrieve the contact information associated with the user s contacts. In one implementation the retrieved contact information can specify identities of the multiple contacts and or different communication modes such as phone e mail addresses information whereabouts information etc. for communicating with the user s contacts.

On behalf of the user the contact information manager processes the contact information from the multiple services. Processing can include sorting of the contact information and displaying the contact information in a unified listing so that the user can view the contacts and corresponding contact information in a single listing including contacts from different services. The unified listing can include display information indicating which of one or more services the different contacts in the unified list belong. The unified listing can therefore include multiple contacts including the user s contacts and corresponding contact information from multiple services. Recall that conventional techniques are limiting because the user must manually retrieve the contact information and view it in a listing of contacts from a single service only.

In one embodiment the user can apply commands to the contacts in the unified listing. For example in addition to retrieving identities of contacts the contact information manager also retrieves contact information associated with the different contacts. The contact information manager stores the contact information associated with the contacts presented in the unified listing. In response to receiving a command to display contact information for a contact selected from the listing the contact information manager initiates display of different communication modes such as an e mail address phone number etc. for communicating with the selected contact. For example the contact information manager can retrieve an e mail address for a given contact from a first service and retrieve phone number information for the given contact from a second service and so on.

In further embodiments the contact information can include status information for a corresponding contact indicating a current availability of the contact. In accordance with the status information for a respective contact in the unified listing the contact information manager can provide an indication about the contact s current and or future availability. This can include such information as that the contact is currently available when the contact will be available at a later time etc. In such an embodiment the user need not manually visit every service to learn of a contact s availability status. The availability information can be displayed in the unified listing and in certain embodiments be displayed along with name information and a picture of the contact.

Based on these and other embodiments as further described herein a user can more efficiently manage and use contact information obtained from multiple disparate locations over a network using the contact information manager.

In addition to the embodiments as discussed above other embodiments herein can include a configuration of one or more computerized devices websites servers hosted services workstations handheld or laptop computers or the like to carry out and or support any or all of the method operations disclosed herein. In other words one or more computerized devices or processors can be programmed and or configured to include an aggregator and or related functions as explained herein to carry out different embodiments of the invention.

Yet other embodiments herein include software programs to perform the steps and operations summarized above and disclosed in detail below. One such embodiment comprises a computer program product that has a computer readable medium e.g. a tangible computer readable media disparately located or commonly located media including computer program logic encoded thereon that when performed in a computerized device having a processor and corresponding memory programs the processor to perform the operations disclosed herein. Such arrangements are typically provided as software code and or other data e.g. data structures arranged or encoded on a computer readable medium such as an optical medium e.g. CD ROM floppy or hard disk or other a medium such as firmware or microcode in one or more ROM or RAM or PROM chips or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . The software or firmware or other such configurations can be installed onto a computerized device to cause the computerized device to perform the techniques explained herein.

Accordingly one particular embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media having instructions stored thereon for supporting operations such as management retrieval and display of contact information associated with a subscriber. The instructions and thus method as described herein when carried out by a processor of a respective computer device cause the processor to i receive a selection of multiple services ii communicate with the multiple services over a network to retrieve contact information the contact information specifying multiple contacts and different modes for communicating with the multiple contacts and iii initiate display of the contact information in a listing.

Another particular embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for supporting operations such as distribution of contact information. Such instructions and thus method as described herein when carried out by a processor of a respective computer device cause the processor to i initiating display of a graphical user interface ii receiving contact information associated with a subscriber to multiple services iii via the graphical user interface receiving a command to update contact information associated with the subscriber and iv in response to receiving the command initiating communication with the multiple services to transmit the received contact information for the subscriber to the multiple services. Other embodiments of the present disclosure include software programs to perform any of the method embodiment steps and operations summarized above and disclosed in detail below.

Of course the numbering of the above steps has been added for clarity sake these steps may not need to be performed in any particular order.

Also it is to be understood that each of the systems methods and apparatuses herein can be embodied strictly as a software program as a hybrid of software and hardware or as hardware alone such as within a processor or within an operating system or within a software application or via a non software application such a person performing all or part of the operations. Example embodiments of the invention may be implemented in products and or software applications such as those manufactured by Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. USA.

As discussed above techniques herein are well suited for use in software applications supporting management of contact information. However it should be noted that embodiments herein are not limited to use in such applications and that the techniques discussed herein are well suited for other applications as well.

Additionally although each of the different features techniques configurations etc. herein may be discussed in different places of this disclosure it is intended that each of the concepts can be executed independently of each other or in combination with each other. Accordingly the present invention can be embodied and viewed in many different ways.

Note that this summary section herein does not specify every embodiment and or incrementally novel aspect of the present disclosure or claimed invention. Instead this summary only provides a preliminary discussion of different embodiments and corresponding points of novelty over conventional techniques. For additional details and or possible perspectives of the invention and embodiments the reader is directed to the Detailed Description section and corresponding figures of the present disclosure as further discussed below.

According to one embodiment a contact information manager initiates display of a graphical user interface to a user. Via the graphical user interface the user can select multiple different services. The services maintain contact information associated with the user s contacts.

Based on selection of multiple services from which to retrieve contact information the contact information manager communicates with the multiple services over a network to retrieve the contact information associated with the user s contacts. By way of a non limiting example the contacts can include any type of entity that can be contacted by the user. The retrieved contact information associated with the contacts can specify different types of information such as identities of the multiple contacts and or different communication modes for communicating with the user s contacts. By way of a non limiting example the different communication modes can include phone e mail addresses information whereabouts information etc. Via input to the graphical user interface a respective user can perform different functions such as manage view distribute modify etc. the contact information.

Now more specifically is an example diagram illustrating a network environment supporting management of contact information according to embodiments herein. As shown network environment includes display screen computer system network e.g. network and network server repository and services e.g. service service service service etc. . In accordance with input from a user display screen displays graphical user interface . Repository stores contact information . Network and network can be the same network or different networks.

As previously discussed certain specific embodiments herein are directed to a computer and or network environment in which a contact information manager aggregates contact information for a respective computer user. As will be discussed the contact information manager simplifies contact information management so that a user can more easily collect and view contact information associated with his or her contacts.

For example in accordance with user input contact information manager running on server such as one or more servers computers etc. initiates display of a graphical user interface to a user. This can require that a user at computer system log on to or visit server and initiate via communications from the computer system to the server activation of contact information manager . In such an embodiment computer system is a client interacting with server although different types of communication models can be used in accordance with other embodiments herein.

Note that although contact information manager is shown being executed in server the contact information manager can be configured to execute on different types of platforms such as directly on computer system so that a client server connection is not needed carry out management of contact information as described herein. When disposed in a respective server the contact information manager can be configured to perform aggregation and other functions as described herein for a number of different users having corresponding computers coupled to network .

In addition to being able to access services via issuance of commands to contact information manager the user can alternatively access one or more of the services via use of a corresponding browser running on computer system . In such circumstances the user must manually access each service via use of an appropriate URL Uniform Resource Locator . In other words the user of computer system can subscribe to one or more of the multiple services and have corresponding contact information associated with himself herself at the services. As a member of the services the user will have access to contact information associated with friends at the services.

Embodiments herein and use of contact information manager to aggregate and manage contact information at the services alleviates the user from having to individually access the services according to conventional techniques because the contact information manager provides an appropriate interface to collect information from services on behalf of the user and display it in a user friendly manner to the user.

For example via the graphical user interface the contact information manager initiates display of the different possible services to which the user may or does subscribe. Management via the graphical user interface can include the user at computer system selecting from a listing of multiple services displayed in the graphical user interface . As previously discussed each of the services can maintain contact information associated with the user operating graphical user interface . Additionally as previously discussed and by way of a non limiting example one or more of the services can be social networking services e.g. Facebook Myspace etc. to which the user of computer system and or corresponding user subscribes.

Each of services can maintain corresponding contact information associated with the user s contacts. By way of a non limiting example contacts can include any type of entity such as friends Internet buddies friends of friends acquaintances companies etc. Also by way of a non limiting example contact information for the contacts as maintained by the services can include without limitation work phone information cell phone information e mail address information instant messaging address information links to personal information picture s video weblinks music etc. Typically the contact information associated with the contacts is managed via the contacts themselves. For example the contacts can access the corresponding services and update their contact information.

Based on the selection of multiple services from listing displayed in graphical user interface and issuance of a collection or aggregation command by user the computer system forwards the collection command and corresponding selection information to contact information manager at server . In turn the contact information manager communicates with each of the services specified by the user.

Note that in certain embodiments the collection or aggregation command isn t necessarily a direct command input by a user but is rather more of a passive pre set scheduled setting whereby the contact information manager performs aggregation of contact information on a regular or random basis such as once a day once a week etc. Thus in such embodiments when aggregation occurs repeatedly as a result of scheduling the user can be apprised of the most up to date contact information without having to repeatedly issue collection or aggregation commands.

Such a scheduled setting can indicate the times in which the contact information manager is to initiate communications with the multiple services. In accordance with the scheduled setting the contact information manager performs multiple scheduled collections of the contact information from the multiple services at different times so that the user can be apprised of the most up to date contact information.

By way of a non limiting example the user can configure the contact information manager via schedule settings to automatically collect or aggregate contact information from the services on a scheduled basis. In other words a user can create a schedule indicating when to perform collection of contact information. As an alternative non limiting example a source other than the user such as a network administrator scheduling policy etc. can configure the contact information manager to automatically perform a collection or aggregation of contact information from the services on a scheduled basis.

In an example embodiment based on selection of the services from listing the contact information manager communicates with each of the selected services via a corresponding application programming interface supported by the respective service. If necessary the contact information manager supplies a username and password associated with the user to access the respective services in order to retrieve contact information. After authentication by the service being accessed the contact information manager initiates further communications with the service to retrieve contact information.

Assume in this example that the user selects each of services and in listing to retrieve respective contact information. The contact information manager retrieves a corresponding contact list from each of these services as in .

As an example is an example diagram illustrating retrieved contact information according to embodiments herein. The contact information includes one or more contact lists e.g. contact list contact list contact list and contact list retrieved from services . Each of contact lists represents a private collection of contact information associated with the user.

For instance based on selection of service the contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact list from service . Based on selection of service the contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact list from service . Based on selection of service the contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact list from service . Based on selection of service the contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact list from service .

Recall that each of the contact lists includes a listing of contacts associated with the user at computer system . That is as illustrated in contact list indicates the user s contacts such as Sawyer Griffin Jonah Hill etc. that subscribe to service . Contact list indicates the user s contacts Katerina Dalring Jolie Ho etc. that subscribe to service . Contact list indicates the user s contacts Katerina Darling Jonah Hill etc. that subscribe to service . Contact list indicates the user s contacts Katerina Darling Sawyer Griffin etc. that subscribe to service .

As shown although not necessary there may be some overlap with respect to names of contacts at different services . For example a user s contact may subscribe to multiple different services . In certain cases a contact associated with the user may subscribe to a single service.

In furtherance of executing the collection command initiated by the user at computer system or based on the collection schedule as discussed above in which the contact information manager is configured to automatically perform a scheduled collection on behalf of the user the contact information manager utilizes the names in the contact lists to retrieve further contact information. For example the contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact information associated with each of Sawyer Griffin Jonah Hill Vegas Lory etc. The contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact information associated with each of Katerina Darling Sawyer Griffin Jolie Ho Vegas Lory etc. The contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact information associated with each of Katerina Darling Jonah Hill etc. The contact information manager communicates with service to retrieve contact information associated with each of Katerina Darling Sawyer Griffin Alzea Scott etc.

As previously discussed the contact information retrieved for each of the contacts in the contact lists can specify different communication modes such as phone e mail addresses information whereabouts information etc. for communicating with the user s contacts. In addition to the one or more communication modes for reaching different contacts the contact information can specify particular information such as phone number sequence e mail address etc. required to reach the respective contact via the corresponding communication mode.

Note that certain of the services may provide availability status information associated with a corresponding contact. For example the availability status information can include information such as whether the contact is currently available a schedule specifying availability of the contact where the contact is currently located etc. illustrates example availability information for Katerina Darling availability information for Sawyer and availability information for Vegas Lory etc.

In one embodiment upon retrieval of the contact information from the services the contact information manager determines if a conflict exists between contact information specifying how to reach a target contact. For example the contact information from a first service may indicate a contact name of John Smith. The contact information from a second service may indicate a contact name of John M. Smith. Based on this information the contact information manager may query the user to reconcile whether this contact is the same contact or different contact.

In certain cases it may not be necessary to prompt the user because the contact information manager may be able to reconcile the information. For example the contact information for John Smith as retrieved from a first service such as service may indicate a corresponding phone number of 508 678 9876. By chance the contact information for John Smith as retrieved from a second service such as service also may indicate a corresponding phone number of 508 678 9876. Based on matching of information other than just a name of the contact the contact information manager can assume that this is the same contact and consolidate it in the same grouping because the phone number is the same even though the spelling of the contact name for John Smith as retrieved from different services do not exactly match each other.

As another example the contact names retrieved from multiple services may match. However the contact information manager may process a corresponding phone number and identify that the phone number contact information provided by two different services are very close but do not match exactly. For example a phone number for John Smith from service may be similar but different to a phone number retrieved from service for John Smith. In such an instance the contact information manager identifies a discrepancy and notifies the user to reconcile such as fix modify confirm correctness etc. the contact information associated with the given contact. Accordingly the contact information presented to the user can be more accurate than the raw contact information retrieved from the different services .

For example column displays a listing of the different services from which the user can make a selection. The listing includes display region display region display region display region display region display region and display region .

More specifically display region displays an identity of service in this example Facebook . The contact information manager can initiates display of a numerical value 44 to indicate how many contacts the corresponding user has with the service .

The contact information manager initiates display of display region to indicate the identity of service in this example My Space . The contact information manager initiates display of a numerical value 89 to indicate that the user has 89 contacts at service .

In a similar manner the contact information manager displays a listing of the services in display region and display region to which the user subscribes.

In one embodiment column includes services to which the user may not yet subscribe. In such an embodiment the user can select a corresponding display region to initiate a process to sign up for the services. For example display region presents a selectable link enabling the user to sign up for a corresponding service such as Linked In . Display region presents a selectable link enabling the user to sign up for a corresponding service such as Plaxo . Display region presents a selectable link enabling the user to sign up for a corresponding service such as Gmail . Each of display regions can have an associated link such that selection of the respective display region results in opening of a browser to the corresponding webpage of the service so that the user can easily sign up for the service.

In one embodiment in accordance with a user s selection of services the contact information manager initiates display of such as through highlighting marking etc. the multiple services selected by the user. Accordingly a user can identify from which services the contact information will be collected.

Column displays the unified listing of contacts as created by the contact information manager via use of the retrieved contact information from the multiple services. As previously discussed the user specifies the different services from which to retrieve contact information. In one embodiment the user can make the selection of services by clicking on the display regions in column .

Based on the retrieved information for the services the contact information manager initiates display of the contacts in column . The listing is unified in a sense that the user can view contacts regardless of which service retrieved the corresponding contact information for the contact. For example each of the contacts in column were identified based on retrieval of contact information from one or more different services. Because the contact information manager collects processes and creates the listing in column the user can efficiently manage contacts from different services without having to manually visit each of the services to view corresponding contact information.

In the context of the present example display regions include contact information for the corresponding contacts. For example display region includes a picture and a name of corresponding contact. Thus embodiments herein include initiating display of a name in the listing of multiple contacts to identify a given contact.

When available the contact information manager initiates display of status information indicating for example whether the corresponding contact is currently available whereabouts of the contact future availability of the contact etc. Certain services may have this information while others may not. Thus embodiments herein include initiating display of status information associated with the given contact to identify a current availability status associated with the given contact as retrieved from the at least one social networking website.

Additionally note that the contacts listed in column may include a display of message information specifically directed to the user. The contact information manager can obtain the message information from a corresponding service and contact with which the contact subscribes.

The aggregation and consolidation of contact information by the contact information manager as described herein enables the user to more easily manage his or her contact information because the contact information manager aggregates bits and pieces of contact information and displays it on display screen in a unified view. Accordingly the user can more easily keep track of different contacts without having to visit many different websites because the contact information manager provides such functionality. In other words as previously discussed the contact information manager visits the different services such as websites repositories etc. and based on retrieved information displays it to the user in a more useful manner.

The different contacts as displayed in column can be selected by a respective user. For example in response to detecting selection of a display region in column the contact information manager displays a detailed view of a contact selected from the listing of contacts in column . More specifically assume that the user selects display region . In response to such a selection the contact information manager initiates display of contact information associated with Vegas Lory in column .

As previously discussed the contact information manager can initiate display of display region so that it includes messages generated by the corresponding contact to the user.

Display region includes an image associated with the contact as well as name and availability status information. The image in display region as well as those in column can be part of the contact information retrieved from the respective services.

Display region includes a number management functions for selection by a user. Clicking on Favorite causes the contact to be included in a particular preferred class. For example the user can use the classification to display only favorites in column .

Clicking on Details in display region prompts the contact information manager to display the contact information associated with the contact as shown in display region . For example in response to such a selection the contact information manager initiates display of the contact information as shown in .

Continuing with the discussion of the screenshot in display region enables the user to initiate different ways for communicating with the corresponding contact. For example the user can click on the voice icon to initiate a call with the contact Vegas Lory. In response to such a selection the contact information manager would initiate a phone call to Vegas Lory in accordance with the contact information specifying how to reach her by phone.

In a similar manner each of the video icon and message icon in display region enables the user to contact Vegas Lory. For example the user can click on the video icon to initiate a video conference call or video conference message with Vegas Lori in accordance with retrieved contact information specifying how to reach Vegas Lory via a video conference.

The user can click on the message icon in display region to initiate creation of an e mail to Vegas Lory in accordance with contact information such as a retrieved e mail address specifying how to reach Vegas Lory via e mail. In this last instance the contact information manager initiates display of a blank e mail with an e mail address associated with Vegas Lory.

Display region includes favorite content associated with the corresponding contact as retrieved from the respective services .

Recall that the contact information associated with Vegas Lory includes the corresponding contact information as retrieved from multiple different services as discussed above. Via graphical user interface a respective user can view similar information from each of the different contact in column .

In one embodiment the graphical user interface is configured to detect selection of the different communicate modes for reaching Vegas Lory as displayed in contact information . For example each of the different contact information can be a selectable display region selection of which prompts the contact information manager to initiate communication according to the selected communication mode.

More specifically in response to selection of a displayed e mail address the contact information manager populates a blank e mail with the corresponding e mail address so that the user can easily create an e mail for sending to a corresponding contact which in this example is Vegas Lory. In response to clicking on a phone number in contact information the contact information manager can initiate a corresponding call to Vegas Lory at the displayed number and so on.

Use of the contact information manager to distribute the user s updated contact information to the different services alleviates the user from having to visit each service and manually update the user s contact information. Thus in addition to being an aggregator of contact information from multiple services the contact information manager can be used to distribute contact information as well.

As an alternative or in addition to providing updated contact information directly to graphical user interface such as by a user typing in the new information note that the user can manage or update the contact information associated with the user based on additional commands supported by the contact information manager . For example the user can specify to the contact information manager one or more services from which to retrieve contact information associated with the user. The user can issue a subsequent command to transmit the contact information retrieved by the contact information manager to one or more services in order to update the contact information associated with the user.

More specifically via graphical user interface the contact information manager can receive a command to retrieve contact information associated with the user from service and forward that retrieved contact information to another service such as service . Based on a command to collect contact information associated with multiple services the contact information manager can retrieve contact information associated with the user from multiple services and forward such information to one or more other services as indicated by the user.

In a similar vein as mentioned above for collection of contact information a distribution of contact information command may not be a direct command input by a user but may be rather more of a passive pre set scheduled setting whereby the contact information manager performs distribution of the user s updated contact information on a regular basis such as once a week once a month once a year every so often etc. Thus in such embodiments the services can be updated with the most up to date contact information without the user having to repeatedly issue distribution commands.

By way of a non limiting example the user can configure the contact information manager to automatically distribute the user s updated contact information to the services on a scheduled basis. As an alternative non limiting example a source other than the user such as a network administrator policy etc. can configure the contact information manager to automatically perform distribution of the user s updated contact information to the services on a scheduled basis.

Note that the following discussion provides a basic embodiment indicating how to carry out functionality associated with the contact information manager as discussed above and below. However it should be noted that the actual configuration for carrying out the contact information manager can vary depending on a respective application. For example as previously discussed computer system can include one or multiple computers that carry out the processing as described herein.

As shown computer system of the present example includes an interconnect that couples a memory system a processor I O interface and a communications interface .

I O interface provides connectivity to peripheral devices such as repository and other devices if such devices are present such as a keyboard mouse such as a selection tool to move a cursor display screen etc.

Communications interface enables the contact information manager of computer system to communicate over network e.g. network and network and if necessary retrieve data required to create views access contact information communicate with a user etc. according to embodiments herein.

As shown memory system is encoded with contact information manager application that supports functionality as discussed above and as discussed further below. Contact information manager application and or other resources as described herein can be embodied as software code such as data and or logic instructions that supports processing functionality according to different embodiments described herein.

During operation of one embodiment processor accesses memory system via the use of interconnect in order to launch run execute interpret or otherwise perform the logic instructions of the contact information manager application . Execution of the contact information manager application produces processing functionality in contact information manager process . In other words the contact information manager process represents one or more portions of the contact information manager performing within or upon the processor in the computer system .

It should be noted that in addition to the contact information manager process that carries out method operations as discussed herein other embodiments herein include the contact information manager application itself i.e. the un executed or non performing logic instructions and or data . The contact information manager application may be stored on a tangible computer readable medium or any other computer readable media such as floppy disk hard disk optical medium etc. According to other embodiments the contact information manager application can also be stored in a memory type system such as in firmware read only memory ROM or as in this example as executable code within the memory system .

In addition to these embodiments it should also be noted that other embodiments herein include the execution of the contact information manager application in processor as the contact information manager process . Thus those skilled in the art will understand that the computer system can include other processes and or software and hardware components such as an operating system that controls allocation and use of hardware resources.

Functionality supported by computer system and more particularly functionality associated with contact information manager will now be discussed via flowcharts in . For purposes of the following discussion the contact information manager or other appropriate entity performs steps in the flowcharts.

More particularly is an example flowchart illustrating a operations associated with contact information manager according to embodiments herein. Note that flowchart of and corresponding text below may overlap with and refer to some of the matter previously discussed with respect to . Also note that the steps in the below flowcharts need not always be executed in the order shown.

In step the contact information manager receives a selection of multiple services through which each of multiple contacts manages their own respective contact information. In other words each of the contacts accesses respective services to update his or her contact information at the respective service.

In step the contact information manager communicates with the multiple services over a network to retrieve contact information associated with the multiple contacts. According to one embodiment the contact information received from the multiple services specifies identities of the multiple contacts and different modes for communicating with the multiple contacts.

In step the contact information manager initiates display of the contact information in a listing to indicate the different modes for communicating with the multiple contacts.

By way of a non limiting example the listing can be a unified listing such as that shown in column of on display screen .

In step the contact information manager receives a selection of multiple services from which to retrieve contact information.

In step the contact information manager communicates with the multiple selected services over a network to retrieve the contact information. In one embodiment the contact information specifies multiple contacts and different modes for communicating with the multiple contacts.

In sub step the contact information manager communicates with a first service of the selected services to retrieve a first set of contact information identifying a first type of communication mode for communicating with a first person.

In sub step the contact information manager communicates with a second service of the selected services to retrieve a second set of contact information identifying a second type of communication mode for communicating with the first person.

In step for the first person the contact information creates a unified set of contact information associated with the first person by combining the first set of contact information and the second set of contact information. An example of such information is displayed as contact information in .

In step of the contact information manager initiates display of the first person and other contacts as selectable entries in the unified listing.

In step upon receiving selection of in certain embodiments by clicking on the first person in the unified listing the contact information manager initiates display of different communicate modes for reaching the first person including a first communication mode and a second communication mode.

In sub step the contact information manager provides an indication that the first communication mode is a preferred mode for communicating with the particular contact such as a first person.

In sub step the contact information manager provides an indication that the second communication mode is an alternative mode to the preferred mode for communicating with the particular contact such as the first person.

In step the contact information manager initiates display of a graphical user interface to manage contact information associated with a subscriber such as a user of computer system who subscribes to multiple services . As mentioned above by way of a non limiting example one or more of the services can be social networking services to which the user subscribes.

In step the contact information manager receives contact information associated with the subscriber including for example a specification of multiple different communication modes for contacting the subscriber. The contact information can be supplied in a number of different ways such as from other services and or directly from information provided to the contact information manager via graphical user interface . As previously discussed the multiple different communication modes can include information such as i an e mail address of the subscriber ii a telephone number for communicating with the subscriber etc.

In step the contact information manager initiates display of the contact information such as information received from a first social networking service in the graphical user interface for viewing by the subscriber.

In step via the graphical user interface and input from a user the contact information manager receives a command to update contact information associated with the subscriber. As previously discussed the command to update the contact information associated with the user can be issued based on a schedule function that issues the distribution command.

In step in response to receiving the command regardless of which type of entity issues the command the contact information manager initiates communication with one or more multiple social networking services to transmit the received contact information for the subscriber to the one or more multiple social networking services.

In sub step the contact information manager transmits the received contact information associated with the subscriber to the first social networking service.

In sub step the contact information manager transmits the received contact information associated with the subscriber to the second social networking service. Accordingly the contact information manager can support distribution of contact information either in response to a direct command by the user to distribute the user s updated contact information to one or more services or in response a schedule indicating to automatically distribute the user s updated contact information to the one or more services .

Those skilled in the art will understand that there can be many variations made to the operations of the user interface explained above while still achieving the same objectives of the invention. Such variations are intended to be covered by the scope of this invention. As such the foregoing description of embodiments of the invention are not intended to be limiting. Rather any limitations to embodiments of the invention are presented in the following claims.

