---

title: Method and system for administering prime brokerage
abstract: A Straight-Through-Processing (STP) trading platform provides a fully electronic and seamless solution to substantially all aspects of the trading cycle for fixed income instruments and other financial instruments. In an exemplary embodiment, one or more customers, one or more dealers and one or more prime brokers have access to computer software that facilitates trade order management, trade order generation, trade execution, trade allocation, allocation acknowledgement, trade confirmation, acquisition of settlement instructions, and the generation of progress reports based on specific metrics criteria. In said exemplary embodiment, the STP trading platform allows a prime broker to monitor and approve a trade where the STP trading platform includes software modules including at least an account management module and an electronic trading module to handle the various stages of executing a trade, confirming the trade, and facilitating settlement of the trade.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07756777&OS=07756777&RS=07756777
owner: Tradeweb Markets LLC
number: 07756777
owner_city: Jersey City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080522
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 808 820 filed on Mar. 25 2004 for METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EFFECTING STRAIGHT THROUGH PROCESSING OF TRADES OF VARIOUS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 457 845 for METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EFFECTING STRAIGHT THROUGH PROCESSING OF TRADES OF VARIOUS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS filed on Mar. 25 2003. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 939 551 for METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ADMINISTERING PRIME BROKERAGE filed on May 22 2007. Each of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to electronic trading methods and systems and more particularly to administering prime brokerage through an electronic trading system that provides straight through processing and the intercommunication therethrough.

Fixed income instruments such as treasuries mortgages commercial paper offerings corporate and government bonds and the like traditionally have been traded using an inefficient error prone manual process. Recently the market for fixed income instruments has undergone a certain degree of automation. While such automation represents an improvement to the manual process many of the problems and inefficiencies associated with the traditional manual process still exist.

To summarize the manual process a customer desiring to buy or sell a fixed income instrument first would make an inquiry or a request for a quote to a dealer that is willing to buy and sell such fixed income instrument. The customer may be any person or entity desiring to trade but generally refers to buy side institutions such as investment funds institutional investors money market funds and mortgage brokers to name a few. The dealer generally is any person or entity that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or an equivalent non U.S. regulator to deal i.e. to make a market for financial instruments for its own account at its bid price or sell from its own account at its ask or offer price . In the past to initiate the manual trading process a customer would make an inquiry for example via the telephone or facsimile transmission. Frequently the customer would make an inquiry to several dealers with which the customer has a relationship before identifying a dealer willing to trade in the desired instrument. Because the manual process required the customer to telephone each of the dealers individually the process of requesting price quotes could take several minutes during which time the market may have moved against the customer. Once the customer identified an acceptable dealer the customer and dealer would verbally agree to the negotiated price for the desired fixed income instrument and execute the trade.

Upon verbal agreement both the customer and dealer would manually write the trade details on a trade ticket. A trade ticket typically comprised several layers of carbon paper such that at least one layer could be passed to the back office personnel responsible for confirming trades. These processes are prone to error due to the manual nature of the recordation process. In this case the trade details may be electronically transmitted to back office systems operated by personnel responsible for confirming trades.

Executing the trade however is only part of the trade cycle. Back office functions such as confirmation allocation and settlement were also performed manually. Rule 10b 10 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b 10 and equivalent non U.S. rules relating to confirmation and clearance of trades require that a dealer provide certain written disclosures to a customer immediately after the completion of a transaction to confirm the trade. In order to create the Rule 10b 10 confirmation the dealer would manually extract the details of the trade such as those passed on the trade ticket and create a paper confirmation an inefficient process prone to potential human error.

As for allocation the customer if trading on behalf of several client accounts would have to transmit allocation instructions to the dealer regarding the financial instruments being bought or sold to any of the number of different sub accounts. More specifically a customer entering into a large block trade on behalf of several accounts would provide allocation instructions to the dealer for example via the telephone or via facsimile. Again this manual process was open to human error not only in providing and recording the proper instructions but also in propagating the correct instructions to the other back office personnel responsible for other functions such as confirmation and settlement.

In order to settle allocated trades a customer would deliver settlement instructions e.g. Central Securities Depository CSD settlement data including the CSD address swift codes ABA number account number and account name to a dealer via facsimile or telephone. The dealer would manually input this information into their internal systems to generate the confirmation and to facilitate clearance and settlement of the securities traded. Following the customer s approval of the information the dealer would provide the trade details and settlement instructions to the relevant clearing agency to effect settlement of the trade. Similar to the trade execution phase there was no direct link between customers dealers and clearing institutions to exchange trade details and settlement instructions during the settlement process. Thus the manual trading and settlement process was prone to errors and often took several days to complete.

The traditional manual process recently has given way to electronic trading systems as mentioned above. In general although the electronic trading systems have several advantages over the manual process such electronic trading systems have focused on the discreet parts of the trading cycle and consequently suffer from a lack of compatibility and interoperability. Furthermore existing electronic trading systems in large part simply automate the manual process and thereby perpetuate the inefficiencies of the manual process and fail to provide needed new functionality. As discussed below because existing electronic trading systems lack compatibility across the various stages of the trade cycle and fail to automate key post trade functions existing systems have failed to eliminate significant sources of error and inefficiencies.

More specifically because electronic trading systems are directed to discreet parts of the trading cycle such systems do not adequately provide a means to achieve straight through processing STP of trades namely to execute block trades allocate block trades to sub accounts confirm the trade details allocations and settlement instructions and settle the trades based on such information. Absent custom built communication interfaces a system directed to one aspect of the trade cycle typically cannot automatically pass recoded information to a system directed to another aspect of the trade cycle. Thus the information must be manually duplicated and re entered at various points during the trading cycle.

For example even where a dealer uses an electronic trading system to effectuate a trade the dealer must manually input details of the trade into a separate back office system in order to generate confirmations and facilitate the settlement process. As a result the post trade confirmation and settlement process remains open to possible human error even where electronic trading systems are used. Moreover typical electronic post trade allocation confirmation systems are often incompatible with electronic settlement instruction databases and systems that provide trade details regarding trades executed in non electronic formats such as via telephone thereby forcing dealers to maintain redundant systems. Although an improvement to traditional manual processes unnecessary duplication of records and potential delays with delivery of trade details allocations confirmations and settlement instructions and in the settlement of trades still exist.

Similarly although many market participants have begun using electronic back office trade management systems such systems are typically incompatible with front office electronic trade execution systems. Thus even if a trade is executed electronically the trade details must be manually input into the various back office systems. In short the electronic trade allocation and settlement of fixed income instruments remains a fractured process that is subject to inefficiencies and errors and prevents efficient straight through processing of trades.

Furthermore efficiencies provided by existing electronic trading systems are typically limited to only a portion of a dealer s or customer s trading volume. Dealers frequently enter into trades via more than one electronic system and over the phone. These electronic systems while providing increased efficiency for trades conducted on each system are incompatible with each other and with manual processes making it impossible to recognize a benefit of one system across all phases of the trading cycle. Indeed such disparate systems can add to the complexity and inefficiency of management of a customer s or dealer s entire trading volume.

The inefficiencies of existing electronic systems are further exacerbated due to the lack of uniformity across market participants. Because trades must be accepted and confirmed at least by the two parties to the trade and sometimes third and fourth parties and because different parties often utilize incompatible systems there is presently no system available that can process trades from generation to execution to allocation to confirmation and finally to settlement to achieve true straight through processing of trades.

In addition to incompatibility among electronic trading systems limiting their effectiveness existing electronic trading systems simply have automated the traditional manual process without changing the general trading cycle paradigm and without adding new features to enhance the usability or efficiency of the systems. As such the existing electronic trading systems have many of the inherent inefficiencies as the manual trading.

Thus a need exists for a system and method for effecting straight through processing of trades and more particularly for a system and method for enabling electronic execution of trades an electronic allocation and acceptance system that is integrated with a standing settlement instructions database such that settlement instructions can be propagated throughout the trading cycle to reduce the possibility of costly and time consuming error inherent in the tradition manual process.

Furthermore there is a need for a system and method for generating electronic trade confirmations that conform to regulatory standards to permit the virtually seamless execution allocation acceptance confirmation and settlement of trades.

Moreover because most existing fixed income electronic trading systems merely implement the traditional customer inquiry based and inventory based trading paradigms such electronic trading systems do not provide a means for permitting dealers to initiate trading by transmitting executable firm trade offers. In the industry a message from a dealer to a customer regarding a trade is commonly referred to as an axe. Presently dealer axes are communicated to customers via telephone or some other electronic based messaging system such as through Bloomberg L.P. s BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service electronic mail or an electronic indication of interest IOI system . These systems however are inefficient for the transmission of axes for several reasons. Such systems do not permit the transmission of executable axes that are actionable by one or more customers to execute a trade. Thus a need exists for trading systems and methods that provide increased liquidity and more particularly that allow dealers an improved means for initiating trades.

Moreover as is known in the art in addition to the dealer and the customer the market for fixed income instruments also frequently includes a prime broker. A prime broker is a dealer who acts as a manager for certain institutional customers. More recently the use of prime brokers has become popular with hedge funds. A customer that uses a prime broker allows the prime broker to monitor and or process and settle trades on the customer s behalf. This enables the customer to i use one or more prime brokers who have expertise in settling trades and ii to trade with multiple dealers by setting up an account with the prime broker that includes the customer s capital which may include cash and securities. In certain circumstances the customer is able to access the prime broker s capital and use it as their own. The relationship between the customer and a prime broker is governed by agreement or as it is known in the art a Prime Broker Agreement and Master Give Up Agreement between the prime broker and the customer specifying the scope of the prime broker s relationship with the customer including when the prime broker may step in and execute a trade on the customer s behalf.

In practice a customer who wants to execute a trade using its prime broker communicates with a dealer about the terms of a trade the customer and dealer agree on the details of the trade and the customer also informs the dealer as to which prime broker the customer wishes to use on the particular trade identified at the block level or at the sub account level. Once the trade details have been finalized the customer advises the prime broker of the details of the trade and the prime broker has a certain period of time within which to accept or reject the trade based on the terms of the master give up agreement it has with its customer.

While there has been some automation of certain aspects of the trading process involving prime brokers many problems and inefficiencies still exist in the inclusion of a prime broker in a financial transaction. Therefore a need exists for a system and method that allows customers dealers and prime brokers to execute a financial transaction that eliminates the inefficiencies of prior systems and methods involving prime brokers.

Various embodiments of the present invention satisfy the foregoing as well as other needs. More specifically such embodiments generally relate to an electronic trading platform that provides straight through processing STP of various financial instruments including but not limited to liquid fixed income instruments utilizing a prime broker. The STP trading platform e.g. systems and methods described herein overcomes the shortcomings of present trading systems and methods for the trading allocation confirmation prime broker interaction and settlement of fixed income instruments.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the STP trading platform has the ability to execute trades dynamically allocate trades according to customer instructions communicate with a one or more customers one or more dealers and one or more prime brokers confirm the trade details and allocations and provide accurate settlement instructions for the trades using a centralized database of standing settlement instructions.

The STP trading platform also is capable of generating electronic confirmations to facilitate confirmation and settlement of trades. Further the STP trading platform is capable of leveraging it unique position as a centralized trading allocation confirm the trade details and allocations and settlement platform to provide customers and dealers with advanced reporting of various industry and trade data. Additionally the STP trading platform is also capable of receiving instructions from one or more prime brokers as to whether a trade has been approved and to allow a prime broker to step into a transaction. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the STP trading platform permits participants to initiate trade inquires execute trades allocate trades to sub accounts communicate with one or more prime brokers confirm the trade details and allocations and electronically confirm trades so as to eliminate the need to manually input and re input trade data in multiple systems designed to handle only one aspect of the trading cycle. Moreover by maintaining a centralized database of standing settlement instructions the described STP trading platform reduces the possibility of trade failures due to inaccuracies in the provisions of settlement instructions between customers and dealers. Thus the standardized and integrated approach of the STP trading platform both streamlines and comprehensively improves the trading process. Due to integration of such functionality the trading platform also provides an electronic paperless solution for the entire trading cycle including trade order generation trade execution prime broker administration trade allocation allocation and trade detail acknowledgement electronic trade confirmation and access to standing settlement instructions to facilitate settlement of trades.

In an exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform comprises one or more software applications operative on a server system along with data storage devices and communication devices to achieve straight through processing of the entire trading cycle.

Dealers customers and prime brokers have access to computer software that facilitates trade order management trade order generation trade execution trade allocation allocation and trade details acknowledgement trade confirmation and finally enrichment of settlement instructions.

Thus as is evident from the above description the STP trading platform integrates various software modules and communication links to process the originating execution allocation acknowledgement of allocation prime broker administration and trade details electronic confirmation and enriching details with settlement instructions of trades. Additional features and advantageous of the system are described further below.

In an exemplary embodiment as shown in a computerized STP trading platform interconnects the computers of customers custodians such as a bank agent trust company or other organization responsible for safeguarding the assets of another person or entity like a customer clearing institutions dealers and prime brokers via existing communications network such as the Internet. Moreover as illustrated in the STP trading platform preferably utilizes a distributed software application arrangement as will be further described below in the System Architecture section of the present application to provide the straight through processing STP of trades. Although the exemplary embodiments described herein are described in terms of a distributed networked software solution operative in a client server environment a wholly server based or client based approach could be adopted so long as the system was configured to provide the functionality disclosed herein.

A summary of the trading cycle will now be described. The typical trading cycle begins with traders for customers accessing indicative market pricing feeds although as described below trades can be initiated through an internal order management system. Indicative market pricing feeds or composite price matrices such as those shown and described herein generally receive near real time indicative pricing data from dealers. The price data is then input into a software algorithm to generate the composite price screen. The operation of the composite price algorithm is not critical to the present invention and therefore specifics of the algorithm are not discussed. The composite price screens are generated by the software algorithm operative of the STP trading platform servers shown in as servers and communicated through a network to both the customer and dealer computer systems and if necessary to the prime broker computer system .

With reference to operative on the customer computer system is a customer side software client that includes an electronic trading component and a back office management component . The customer side software client is configured to receive and display the composite price screens and to permit customer traders to create trade inquiries search dealer offerings receive dealer axes execute trades allocate trades and perform various other back office functions as further described below. The customer generally views a composite price screen so as to gather information relating to a particular fixed income instrument. Dealers may also view composite price screens to keep apprised of market trends. As described below the customer can initiate a trade inquiry from the composite price screens.

In general the STP trading platform operates according to an inquiry based trading environment. Thus typically a customer desiring to buy or sell financial instruments makes an electronic inquiry of one or more dealers for prices at which the instruments can be bought or sold. Because multiple dealers may be competing against one another this type of inquiry is sometimes referred to as competitive auction based inquiry. In other instances for example in the case of commercial paper offerings CPOs the STP trading platform may be configured to operate according to an inventory based trading environment in which dealers post inventories of various financial instruments from which customers can make purchases.

In the exemplary embodiment being described dealers interact with a dealer side software client operative on the dealer system . Operating in connection with the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform an electronic trading component of the dealer side software client permits dealers to receive trade inquiries from customers create axes manage the provision of market prices to customers in response to the inquiries through the STP trading platform execute trades receive customer allocations confirm trade details and allocation instructions generate confirmations and perform other back office tasks.

Traders for the selected dealers receive inquiries through the STP trading platform into the electronic trading component . The electronic trading component operates to display customer initiated inquiries on a graphical interface that provides dealers with the ability to input the requested bid ask prices into an electronic trade ticket and transmit the prices to the customer. Dealers must typically present both bids and offers to customers so that customers can select to trade either side of a transaction. For instance the dealer must provide bids that represent the price at which the dealer is willing to purchase a particular financial instrument from customers. Similarly the dealer must post offers or ask prices which are the price at which the dealers are willing to sell particular financial instruments to customers. Moreover according to known trading rules dealers must make the prices they post firm for several seconds and thus the dealers will post prices on the wire for several seconds. If the customer selects a particular dealer s price while there is on the wire time remaining then the dealer must honor the firm price and the transaction will automatically be accepted. A trade performed after the on the wire time has expired may be accepted or rejected at the dealer s sole discretion. Prior to a trade being performed after the on the wire time has expired the dealer may refresh its trade price and reset the on the wire time.

Through a trade ticket interface shown and described below displayed by the dealer side electronic trading component dealers can provide market prices in response to customer inquiries and set specific on the wire time periods. Upon creation of a dealer price offer an electronic message is created and an identifier is mapped to the dealer price offer so that a record of the offer can be stored in the trade history database of the STP trading platform . The live market dealer price and on the wire time period is transmitted through the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform to the customer s computer and displayed by the customer side electronic trading component . Thus the customer can see the selected dealers prices along with a countdown of on the wire time. Through the customer side electronic trading component the customer can hit a bid or lift an offer to initiate the purchase or sale as applicable of the selected financial product. This functionality is performed electronically as described further below.

The STP trading platform may also be configured to process trades executed on systems other than through the electronic trading module such as trades executed via telephone or by an alternate electronic trading system. Trade details from alternate systems are electronically imported into the STP trading platform so as to provide the straight through processing functionality described herein for trades executed using these alternate methods. Trade data regarding transactions effected on other systems is imported by dealers into the STP trading platform using application programming interfaces APIs that link the two systems and through data transfer using standardized e.g. FIX format or customized formats as described further below.

Further in the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform permits dealers to initiate trade inquiries using the dealer side electronic trading component . Such dealer generated trade inquiries are referred to as electronic axes. A dealer using axe generation functionality can input the material terms of an offer to trade a particular instrument. Unlike present systems that permit only non executable messages the dealer can set an on the wire time during which the trade will be accepted by a selected customer or group of customers at the dealer s terms. Once an electronic axe is created the dealer can communicate the electronic axe using the STP trading platform to one or more selected customers. If a customer accepts a dealer electronic axe the trade is executed in the same manner as customer initiated inquiries.

After a transaction is effected through the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform or through an alternate electronic trading system or via telephone and imported into the STP trading platform the customer may make any necessary account allocations to block trades. The functionality to allocate block trades to the customer s sub accounts is provided through integration of the electronic trading module along with the customer side electronic trading component and the account management module and associated account management database . The account management module includes at least in part an account management database for the storage and maintenance of account and sub account information for each of the customers client s accounts. By selecting the breakdown functionality provided by the electronic trading module and customer side electronic trading component the customer s account information can be retrieved from the account management database . A breakdown interface provided by the customer side electronic trading component is populated by account information retrieved from the account management database which includes at least a sub account database. Thus through integration of the electronic trading module and the account management module the customer is provided functionality to selectively allocate the block trade to one or more sub accounts. Once block trades are allocated the customer side electronic trading component of the electronic trading module can generate an allocation ticket for each allocation of the block trade. Thus in essence each allocation is treated for the purposes of allocation acknowledgement electronic confirmation and settlement as a separate allocation ticket. Each allocation ticket contains an identifier that permits the electronic trading module to store a data record for each allocation ticket in the trade history database . The allocation ticket also may contain an identifier linking it to the original block trade executed between the parties.

The electronic trading module of the STP trading platform through integration with the account management module also has the functionality to permit the allocation of trades through the use of integrated inter systems or order management systems of the customer. As will be discussed in greater detail below the STP trading platform can be and preferably is communicatively linked to the internal systems of customers and dealers. As an example many customers operate order management systems OMS shown in as to handle trade generation portfolio management and order routing. Customer software may also electronically handle sub account allocation in an automated fashion. The STP trading platform enables customers to initiate the trading process using OMS and electronically allocate block trades executed on the STP trading platform using associated software. In the exemplary embodiment OMS systems are linked to the STP trading platform using an API which permits allocation details for example to be imported into the STP trading platform so that the allocation details can in turn be transmitted through the STP trading platform to the dealer side computers for acknowledgement.

At this point the trade details which may include a summary of the block trade and the account information for the allocation if applicable may be enriched through interaction with the account management database of the STP trading platform . In the exemplary embodiment the account management database stores standing settlement instructions pertaining to each of the customer accounts. Thus during the process of transmitting the trade details and allocations if any to the dealer side computers the electronic trading module accesses the account management database to retrieve the standing settlement instructions for each designated account of the trade and adds the instructions to the trade details.

It should also be understood that the STP trading platform is designed to record and store in the trade history database a historical record of all transactions executed including a historical audit trail of all phases of the trade cycle to thereby facilitate problem resolution should any issues or disputes arise.

The confirmation process may also be performed on the STP trading platform . According to the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform provides dealers with the ability to have confirmations electronically generated and transmitted to customers through the STP trading platform in a manner that would satisfy the requirements of applicable government regulations such as SEC Rule 10b 10. For transactions effected through the STP trading platform the transaction information contained in the confirmation is based on the terms of the transaction that have been agreed to between the customer and the dealer over the STP trading platform .

Upon electronic receipt of the trade details including any allocations and the associated settlement instructions dealers can confirm that the trade details and the records of the customers are accurate. If the dealer determines that the details of the customer s allocations are accurate then the dealer can acknowledge the allocation via the STP trading platform . The STP trading platform then dynamically generates an electronic confirmation in accordance with applicable government regulations for example SEC Rule 10b 10 to facilitate the electronic confirmation of trades. As discussed above the STP trading platform is also preferably adapted to handle the processing and confirmation of trades executed either via telephone or via an alternate trading system.

For trades made on alternate trading systems such as dealer trade management system or via telephone the confirmation is based on transaction information that is electronically imported into the STP trading platform by the dealer and affirmed by the applicable customer. In each case the affirmation reflects any allocation among sub accounts that has been made by the customer and accepted by the dealer.

Further in the exemplary embodiment both the customers and dealers are provided access through a back office management module of the STP trading platform to a master trade blotter interface as well as various other summary interfaces. On the customer side the summary interface preferably displays trade information on a dealer by dealer basis. The summary information preferably includes the number of trades the number of trades cancelled or corrected the number of block trades allocated or unallocated the number of tickets generated the number of trades confirmed or unconfirmed and the number of trades for which there are errors. This summary interface allows back office personnel to quickly and efficiently determine whether any executed trades have outstanding issues that require attention. Similarly the dealer side has access to summary trade information on a customer by customer basis.

In one embodiment the STP Trading Platform further includes a prime broker software client that includes an electronic trading component and a back office management component . The prime broker software client is configured to receive and display trade details and permits prime brokers to view and approve trades and in one embodiment perform various other back office functions.

In an exemplary embodiment as shown in software modules of the STP trading platform are capable of communication with customer side software application components operative on customer computers via a communications network . In a similar way dealer side software application components are operable on dealer computers and capable of communication with the STP trading platform servers . Similarly prime broker software client is operable on prime broker computers and capable of communication with the STP trading platform servers . Together the software modules operative on the STP trading platform servers with the client side dealer side prime broker software modules comprise the server client software system of the STP trading platform .

In the exemplary embodiment the client side software application components such as the customer side electronic trading and back office management components the dealer side electronic trading and back office management components and the prime broker electronic trading and back office management components are preferably thin clients . With respect to client server applications the term thin client generally refers to a software client designed to be relatively small so that the bulk of the data processing occurs on the server. In the exemplary embodiment of the STP trading platform the customer dealer and prime broker electronic trading and back office management components and and respectively are relatively small software applications capable of generating graphical user interface templates on the customer dealer and prime broker computers such as the exemplary graphical user interface templates shown in which are populated and controlled at least in part by the software modules operative on the centralized STP trading platform servers in communication with customer dealer and prime broker computers and . Persons of skill will recognize however that the use of thin client technology as opposed to other known and heretofore developed client server technologies is not critical to the present invention.

Generally speaking the electronic trading module is operative on the STP trading platform servers to communicate with and provide functionality to the dealer side customer side and prime broker electronic trading components which generate and display graphical user interfaces that are populated by information communicated from dealers e.g. live market pricing data and retrieved from the account management database e.g. account information and settlement instructions as described further below.

The account management module is also preferably a server side software application operative on the STP trading platform servers and accessible by customer dealer and prime broker computers via a communications network such as the Internet. In the exemplary embodiment the account management module is database management software programmed with graphical interfaces to provide a web based program that can display information retrieved from the account management database via the Internet and create update modify or delete as applicable account records including settlement instructions. Via known communications networks customers and dealers can access their accounts through the account management module of the STP trading platform . Through integration of the STP trading platform modules the account management database is also accessible by the electronic trading module so as to permit the electronic trading module to retrieve information from the account management database when necessary.

Customer dealer and prime broker computers and are any type of personal or network computer such as an IBM compatible computer running an Intel chipset and having an operating system such as Microsoft Windows NT 2000 XP and the like and preferably running a browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator . It is also within the scope of the present invention that computers and may be handheld or table computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket PC and tablet PC or the like. Computers and have access to a communications network via a modem or broadband connection to permit data communication between the participants and the STP trading platform .

Various input and output devices are preferably provided with the customer dealer and prime broker computers and including by way of non limiting example a display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD etc. and an input device e.g. a keyboard mouse touch pad or light pen . The customer and dealer computers would also preferably include a storage device such as for example a magnetic disk drive and magnetic disk a CD ROM drive and CD ROM DVD or other equivalent device. The specific hardware combination configuration is not crucial to the instant invention and may vary as a matter of design choice within the functional parameters disclosed herein. Users of the STP trading platform typically interact with the GUI s displayed by the software modules by clicking on numbers or graphics e.g. buttons that are displayed on the GUI s. Persons of skill will understand that the present invention is not limited to clicking with a computer mouse but includes use of any other device for indicating an action with graphics based software such as a touch pad light pen touch sensitive display screen and the like.

The STP trading platform servers may be computer servers of any type known in the industry but capable of handling the flow of data on a substantially real time basis. Moreover persons of skill will recognize that multiple servers in a server farm arrangement may be utilized to handle the bandwidth and processing requirements of a particular arrangement of the present invention.

Trade history databases and account management databases are controlled by the software modules to retrieve data when necessary. The storage devices themselves may be any mass storage devices capable of storing large amounts of data in an organized fashion such as known data storage devices including but not limited to hard disks tape drivers optical disks and the like.

Communication between the customer side dealer side prime broker side and the STP trading platform may be accomplished via electronic messaging using the Extensible Mark up Language XML Financial Information Exchange FIX or Financial Products Mark up Language FpML format. In order for customer side dealer side and prime broker side computers to communicate with the STP trading platform an API is provided to enable users to establish connections to the STP trading platform authenticate their systems and exchange messages using for example the XML based messaging protocol. By way of non limiting example Table I that follows illustrates exemplary messages that may be used during the flow of the trading cycle.

With respect to the exchange of messages between the customer side dealer side prime broker side and STP trading platform persons of skill in the art will recognize and understand the various message types being communicated across the system in light of the discussion of trade execution allocation confirmation and settlement on the STP trading platform in connection with the various screen shots and data flow diagrams. Persons of skill will also recognize that the particular structure of the messages and the preferred use of XML messaging is not necessary and alternate methods of messaging may be utilized.

Persons of skill in the art will further recognize that the exemplary system architecture shown and described herein may be modified in various manners so as to achieve the functionality set forth herein. Moreover the particular layout or look and feel of the GUI s depicted in are meant only for illustration purposes and the scope of the present invention should not be so limited.

The above described account management electronic trading and back office modules and the customer dealer and prime broker electronic trading and back office management clients and and and respectively are configured on the trading platform servers and databases act cooperatively to provide a solution for various aspects of the typical trading cycle. An exemplary embodiment of customer dealer and prime broker interaction with the STP trading platform is described below in connection with .

Prior to initiating a trade a customer may access the account management module of the STP trading platform so as to input information to create maintain and update sub accounts for allocation of block trades and to enter standing settlement instructions to facilitate electronic settlement of executed trades in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The STP trading platform is operative with the account management database to act as a centralized account management database for customers dealers custodians and agent bank accounts and sub accounts and to store standing settlement instructions for said customers custodians and agent banks.

In the exemplary embodiment the account management module is operative to create a web based environment through which users can access settlement and account data and manage standing settlement instructions. The account management module also preferably performs account validation as described further below. is an example of a database schematic of the account management database for storing company account profiles and corresponding settlement instructions . The account profiles and associated settlement instructions stored in the account management database are mapped to the account information utilized by the electronic trading module . In this way trade details can be enriched dynamically with account and settlement information from the account management database . In an exemplary embodiment customers can interact with the account management module of the STP trading platform through a web based interface as shown in to manage and update their account information. The account management interface is preferably standardized and provides field level validation to reduce the possibility of errors in the account information. For example the account management interface has a minimum standard for information that must be entered in order to create a new account or sub account. The minimum information requirement is driven by industry standards for the particular jurisdiction and financial product that the account is being created to accommodate. Where possible to provide further ease of use and prevent errors the account management interface uses drop down menus that users can select from pre defined lists.

For example according to the U.S.A. PATRIOT ACT the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act accounts in the United States must have a Tax ID number. The account management module therefore requires a Tax ID number to be entered for any account created in the United States.

Moreover to accomplish field level validation the account management module is programmed to ensure that particular fields require particular types of information. For example with reference to the TAX ID field generally requires an 8 digit numeric code. In an exemplary embodiment after the customer has completed entering the account information the account management module is configured to check the entered information against field level validation standards stored in a field level validation database to determine whether any information has been improperly entered. By way of example if only 6 digits have been entered in the TAX ID field the account management module would detect the error and prompt the customer to enter the proper information. In an alternate embodiment the account management module could trigger a message to the customer as soon as improperly non validated information was entered into the system. In such a scenario for example as soon as the information was entered and the tab or enter key was pressed to move to the next input field the account management module would notify the user of the error.

In an exemplary embodiment the account management database also stores standing settlement instructions using a standardized and field level validated data structure. With reference again to there is shown an exemplary embodiment of a customer account management interface showing standing settlement instructions for a particular clearing institution and particular financial instruments. Because dealers use this information to settle securities transactions its accuracy is important to achieving straight through processing. It should be understood that the information entered into the fields is illustrative and not meant to be indicative of actual settlement instructions. Input of standing settlement instructions using the account management module is performed using industry standardized data. For example where possible SWIFT codes are used to populate data fields. For instance if a hypothetical SWIFT code of ABCCUS33XXX is entered the other fields necessary to complete the creation of the settlement instructions are automatically populated using cross references to the SWIFT codes embedded in the account management database . Such standardization and automation reduces the possibility of human input errors which are a source of costly trade settlement failures. The account management module may also perform field level validation on fields that are not able to be auto populated using embedded cross references in the same manner as described above in connection with .

As a result of the standardization and validation performed by the account management module in the creation and input of accounts customers dealers and if necessary prime brokers have access to an accurate and centralized depository of account and sub account information and associated settlement instructions. When a customer updates creates anew or modifies an account or settlement instruction the changes will be almost immediately available to all participants that the customer has enabled to view such settlement instructions thereby streamlining the process of updating account information and eliminating the need for duplicative systems and processes. Moreover because the selected participants have access to the same information errors can be detected and corrected more efficiently. As will be described further below integration of the account management module and database with the electronic trading module and back office management module provides the functionality for straight through processing of trades throughout the entire trading cycle.

With reference now to there will be described an exemplary process for executing trades allocating the trades and confirming the trade details and allocations on the STP trading platform .

Persons of skill will recognize that other fields may be utilized as appropriate for the trade type e.g. swaps or particular security being traded. In addition other fields defined by the FIX protocol may be utilized as a matter of design choice.

It will also be evident from the above table that a customer may pre allocate trades on the system or through its internal OMS and include such allocations in the new order message to the databases. If the customer chooses to create allocations after a block trade is entered then an allocation message is created. Table IV shows two exemplary messages for transmitting post trade allocations using the FIX protocol 

The exemplary flow of depicts a trade initiated via the composite price matrices. In a first step the STP trading platform collects and aggregates live market pricing data and prices received from dealers. In step upon launch of the customer side electronic trading component composite screens are generated and populated using the dealer trade price information transmitted to the STP trading platform by dealer systems. In step the indicative market price feeds are accessible via communications network on customer computers and dealer computers . In step the electronic trading component operative on customer computer generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for initiating and executing trades. In step customer traders manually enter trade orders or electronically upload orders from OMS that would include allocation instruction and select dealers to enable a competitive auction type trade inquiry. Trade inquiries are then transmitted through the STP trading platform servers to the selected dealer s computers in step . These inquiries include information related to the customer s prime broker if a prime broker is to be used for the transaction. In most instances automated dealer trade systems in step respond to the inquiries and transmit firm market prices through the STP trading platform servers . Using a trade execution screen in step the firm dealer prices populate the customer s trading screens. In step customer traders can execute trades by hitting or lifting a bid or offer as applicable. After a trade is accepted by the dealer the customer s back office can enter block trade allocations if the trade was not already pre allocated and transmit the same to the customer computers the dealer computers and the prime broker computers in step . In step the dealer acknowledges the customer s block trade allocation.

Upon receipt of the customer s allocations if any the dealer side software client confirms the details of the block trade and allocations and retrieves standing settlement instructions from the account management database and may but not necessarily generate an electronic confirmation of the trade. Throughout the process outlined in records of the customer s trade inquiry the dealer s price response details concerning whether prices were rejected or accepted the final trade details the customer s account allocations if any any prime broker information and electronic confirmations are stored in the trade history database .

An embodiment of the additional steps required in the flow of a trade using a prime broker on the STP Trading Platform will now be shown and described in more detail with reference to . First as discussed above a customer selects a prime broker to use in the execution of trades. Once the details of the relationship between the prime broker and a customer have been finalized the prime broker and the customer execute an agreement setting forth the terms or circumstances of when the prime broker may step into a trade on customer s behalf and other details regarding the customer s and prime broker s responsibility to each other. Step . The electronic trading component operative on customer computer generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for allowing the customer to identify its prime broker s as will be discussed in more detail below. When a customer chooses to execute a trade using its prime broker the customer and dealer agree to the details of the trade as they would in a non prime broker transaction using the STP Trading Platform as discussed above and the customer alerts the dealer that it wishes to use its prime broker to carry out the trade. Step . Next the back office management component operative on the prime broker computer generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for allowing the trade details to populate the prime broker s screens and the details are similarly electronically transmitted and displayed to the dealer and customer as discussed below. Step and Step .

Once the prime broker has reviewed the details of the trade the prime broker can either approve or reject the trade based on its relationship with the customer. Step . If the prime broker rejects the trade the customer and dealer receive notification of the prime broker s rejection and the trade remains between the customer and executing dealer. Step . If the prime broker accepts the trade a determination is made as to whether the prime broker is acting in a give up capacity. Step . As is known in the art a prime broker can either provide General Trade Servicing GTS which means that the prime broker is monitoring the trade of its customers but is not acting in a principal capacity a prime broker can act in a give up capacity which means that the prime broker actually becomes a counter party to the trade replacing the customer with an off setting trade facing the executing dealer. If the prime broker is not acting in a give up capacity but rather only providing GTS a message indicating the successful trade and the allocation details is transmitted to the dealer customer and prime broker via the respective back office management components and . Step . If the prime broker is acting in a give up capacity once the trade details are approved by the prime broker the prime broker steps in in place of the executing dealer as the counterparty for the trade with the customer and steps in as the counterparty to the trade with the executing dealer. Step . Lastly a message including the details of the trade which list the prime broker and the dealer as parties of the transaction and allocation details are sent to the dealer customer and prime broker as applicable. Step .

As was referred to earlier the STP Trading Platform also can provide functionality that supports the Remaining Party Model and the Step Out Model with regard to novation events in the over the counter OTC markets. The primary difference between the Remaining Party Model and the Step out Model relates to the entity that is considered the remaining party to the transaction and therefore has the right to accept reject a trade that was assigned to another 3rd party entity as defined by the ISDA Novation protocol . In the Remaining Party Model the prime broker remains principle to the original give up transaction. Thus upon a novation event they are considered the Remaining Party the customer remains as transferor and the step in dealer as the transferee and can accept or reject the assignment. In the Step Out Model when the customer assigns the trade to another dealer an unwind or tear up occurs between the client and their prime broker for that trade. In this scenario the prime broker is considered the transferor and the original executing dealer is considered the remaining party. Thus as opposed to a novation in an assignment scenario the original executing dealer has the right to accept or reject the assignment.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the STP Trading Platform is configured to track the selections made by the parties to a trade to determine whether a novation or assignment has been triggered. Because the STP Trading Platform tracks the customer prime broker and dealer on each trade the STP Trading Platform can make a determination as to whether the prime broker or original dealer is the remaining party and therefore provide the appropriate interfaces to the remaining party to accept or reject the subject trade.

During the trading process the STP trading platform permits customers to submit trade inquiries to multiple dealers simultaneously. In this case for example the Order Type field of the New Trade Order message would be set to auction. As discussed above in the exemplary embodiment customers can submit requests to purchase from financial instrument inventories such as commercial paper offering CPO and corporate bond inventories. All dealers receiving an inquiry and willing to trade the specific instrument for the transmitted quantity will message the customers with a firm quotation to buy or sell by filling out a trade ticket displayed on the dealer side computers . The customer reviews the quote and determines to accept or reject the quote or allow the quote to lapse. A transaction is completed only if both the customer and dealer accept the quote.

With further reference to after a transaction is effected over the STP trading platform or imported into the STP trading platform customers acting in some cases for multiple client accounts may allocate the transaction among those client accounts by transmitting the relevant allocation information to the dealer via the STP trading platform . Step discussed above . Also the pre trade allocations may be entered in the original trade inquiry. The dealer then can acknowledge the receipt and processing of the allocation information through the STP trading platform . Step discussed above . The STP trading platform provides functionality to dynamically enrich trade details with settlement instructions and generate electronic confirmations in steps as discussed further below. The electronic confirmations are then made available to customers for review and acceptance in step and in step the customer can electronically confirm or reject the trade through the STP trading platform . In step if the electronic confirmation is confirmed by the customer and dealer then the trade is listed as AFFM in the master blotter stored in the trade history database of the STP trading platform . This process will be described in greater detail below.

With reference now to there are shown screen shots of an exemplary user interface using a prime broker in the STP trading platform . As can be seen in for each customer that has a prime broker or wants to include a prime broker in an executed trade a customer can retrieve a list of its prime brokers to specifically select which prime broker it wishes to use for a particular trade. Since customers may have multiple prime brokers this enables the customer to choose which prime broker to use for which trade. Additionally the prime broker can use a view as shown in to view a listing of users who have chosen them as prime brokers and to authorize which prime broker services should be allowed for each particular customer. For example as can be seen in a prime broker can choose or select which of its customers should have which prime broker service per product. For example as discussed above a prime broker can give its customer GTS which means that the prime broker will monitor and perform operational processing requirements for the customer s trades but will not become a principle on the trade itself. Although the prime broker will not act as a principle it may act as a clearing agent. Alternatively the prime broker can provide a give up service to its customers in which the prime broker would become the principle on the transaction in lieu of its customer. Thus the prime broker has the ability to designate which of its customers maintain which services from within the STP Trading Platform .

Utilizing the prime broker software client the prime broker computer is configured to receive and display a page displaying a list of dealers along with a list of customers. Utilizing this listing the prime broker will be allowed to establish links to their customer base and identify which customers should have which prime broker services for which product. Once the prime broker has identified its customers in the account management database using for example display and the customer will have the opportunity to view and confirm the prime broker s inputted information.

The linking information identified in the account management database as described above enables the STP Trading Platform to monitor transactions involving the prime broker and its customers and enables the display via a Viewer interface of such transaction information. The linking of the transaction information in this manner enables the give up authorization process and trade processing flow described herein.

Screenshot interfaces depicting the execution of a trade utilizing a prime broker on the STP Trading Platform will now be described in greater detail. As can be seen in the trading screen preferably has a drop down list allowing the user to click on or select the prime broker to be used in connection with the execution of a trade from drop down list . Alternatively the customer can select to not use a prime broker for the execution of the trade and rather process the trade directly. If the customer elects to use a prime broker in a give up capacity only dealers that have been identified as approved for intermediation by the prime broker are available to be selected by the customer for the trade inquiry. Once a trade is executed as can be seen in a view summarizing details of the trade is displayed for the customer. As can be seen in Pane when a give up service is selected the prime broker e.g. DLRX and the trade type is listed as a new trade and as a give up. At that point in time a message is sent to the prime broker on the system and the prime broker has the ability to approve or to reject the trade. As is known in the art if the prime broker does not accept or reject the trade within a certain time period the prime broker s lack of action is viewed as an acceptance. In certain embodiments the STP Trading Platform can wait to receive an affirmative acceptance or rejection from the prime broker before designating the trade as having been accepted. After the trade is accepted by the prime broker the trade type can change to indicate such acceptance.

As can be seen in a screen showing the status of various trades including a prime broker field is shown. The summary lists the details of the trade including the counterparty the rate and any estimated fee associated with such trade. Additionally the give up state field indicates whether the trade was executed using a prime broker who became the principle of the trade. If the give up service was used the prime broker is listed in counterparty field and the executing dealer is listed in the prime broker field . If however the prime broker was used as a GTS such prime broker is listed in the prime broker field and the executing dealer is listed in the counterparty field .

In an alternate embodiment a customer can indicate that a prime broker is to be used for a particular transaction but not designate which prime broker is to be used until a later point in the transaction. A screenshot depicting such a scenario is shown in . As seen in a screen which displays a trade inquiry by the customer where the prime broker field is set to to follow . This indicates that the customer has requested a give up but does not yet want to reveal their prime broker.

Once the trade has been executed as can be seen in a detail page will be displayed for the customer and the dealer and the prime broker field will show PB to Follow Give Up . Once again indicating that a give up has been requested by the customer but no prime broker has been chosen.

Additionally as can be seen in a customer can identify their prime broker from display at the sub account level. This is necessary because if using a prime broker the customer enables a sub account with such prime broker so the prime broker will have access to view and accept trade information. As can be seen in field the customer can either enter a name of their prime broker of choose a prime broker from their drop down list based upon the information stored in the account management database . Once the prime broker has been identified at the prime broker level the prime broker will be informed about the trade and access information related thereto via the prime broker computer utilizing the prime broker software client.

As can be seen in screen is displayed for the prime broker to show details about the trade and obtain consent for the give up. Additionally messaging can be sent to the client via a message API as discussed above to alert the prime broker that consent to a give up is being requested.

The customer may have the authorization as part of a transaction to trade using the credit of a dealer. In one embodiment when a prime broker is selected and the customer selects Give up the STP Trading Platform will perform a check against the account management database to determine the Executing Broker Agreements on file. Based on the dealers the prime broker has an agreement with the STP Trading Platform will only allow an inquiry to be submitted to the corresponding dealers.

The STP trading platform is also preferably configured to process trades executed on systems other than the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform such as trades executed via telephone or by an alternate electronic trading system. In these cases trade details from alternate systems can be electronically imported into the STP trading platform via electronic messaging using an API. Once the trade data is imported into the trade history database of the STP trading platform STP functionality as described herein can be provided for trades executed on alternate systems or via the telephone. In the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform are be communicatively linked to a dealer s internal systems or trade management systems to import trade details. The trade details are delivered to the customer via STP trading platform in the DONE state. If the trade details are accepted or checked out by the customer the state will change to ACC and thereafter trade details are then treated similarly as trades completed via the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform . Such trades may then be allocated and electronically confirmed via the STP trading platform as described further below.

With reference now to the flow of a phone trade will now be shown and described. In a first step the dealer and customer execute a phone trade in a known manner. The dealer then inputs the trade details into its internal trade management system in step . In step the phone trade details are electronically imported into the STP trading platform using the exemplary message format shown above. Phone trades are differentiated from other trades by virtue of an identifier for example SRC PH. At this point the phone trade details are assigned a DONE state see Table V below while customer acceptance is outstanding. In step the phone trade details are messaged to the customer side electronic trading module for review by the customer. The customer may accept the phone trade as in step or reject the phone trade as in step . If the phone trade is accepted or checked out it is assigned the ACC state. If the phone trade is rejected it is assigned the REJ state. In the case of a rejected trade the dealer is given an opportunity to correct the phone trade details in step . The process flow returns to step and the corrected phone trade is transmitted again to the customer. The corrected phone trade is again assigned the DONE state. Additionally a phone trade pop up message which can include the phone trade details that can be displayed for the customer to allow the customer to review the details of the phone trade and permit the customer to confirm or reject such trade.

Phone trades that are accepted by the customer may be allocated confirmed assigned to a prime broker and enriched with settlement instructions in the same manner as other trades handled by the STP trading platform .

At each stage of a trade effected on the STP trading platform or via alternate methods e.g. phone trades the trade is assigned a state that can be monitored by customers and dealers and prime brokers. An exemplary set of state codes is shown in Table V below.

Furthermore according to the exemplary data flow of the STP trading platform is preferably but not necessarily configured to compare trade details and related information received from dealers and customers and permit electronic confirmation according to applicable government laws rules and regulations. By example SEC Rule 10b 10 requires that certain disclosures be included in a confirmation. In order to satisfy SEC Rule 10b 10 the STP trading platform may be programmed to generate an electronic trade confirmation ETC template containing the required Rule 10b 10 disclosures. To satisfy SEC Rule 10b 10 in the exemplary embodiment the ETC template preferably includes the fields listed in Table VI. Table VI also sets forth an exemplary model for retrieving information from the account management and trade history databases to facilitate creation of the ETC.

The exemplary confirmation system of the present invention where a prime broker is used preferably follows the following data flow as shown in . In step a customer makes a give up trade inquiry identifying that the customer wishes to use a prime broker for the proposed transaction. One or more dealers transmit trade quotes in step . The customer then in step selects one of the quotes to execute a trade. For trades effected on the STP trading platform the trade details for block trades including information about the prime broker would be stored electronically in an associated trade history database . As described above the trade history database stores a record for each trade executed on the STP trading platform using a unique identifier for each such trade. For non system trades such as trades effected over alternate electronic systems and telephone trades the trade details for block trades would be electronically imported by a dealer through the dealer s trade blotter interface and then communicated to the appropriate customer and prime broker as described above. If the terms of the non system block trade are accepted by the customer the block trade is given the ACC state and a record of the accepted trade is stored in the trade history database . The block trade detail can then also be used to populate the trade blotter and other back office management interfaces of the customer and the prime broker.

After receiving the trade details of an accepted block trade a prime broker would decide whether to accept the trade as a prime broker as described above. Step . Once the prime broker accepts the give up the customer reviews the details and may include any trade allocation instructions in step . The STP trading platform assigns the ALLOC state and transmits each allocation ticket created by the STP trading platform as a result of the customer s allocations to the dealer and prime broker. A record of the allocations is also stored by the trade history database . At this point each allocation ticket may be enriched with settlement instructions electronically accessed from the account management database of the STP trading platform .

Next in step the dealer reviews the allocation tickets and processes the trade details for each sub account set forth in the allocation. The dealer may then acknowledge that it has processed and accepted each allocation ticket in step . In the event that an allocation is not processed by the dealer e.g. a sub account has not been mapped to the dealer s internal system as in step the dealer can only confirm certain of the allocations and the trade will be assigned the CONFP partial confirmation state and an error message will be transmitted over the STP trading platform to the customer with specific instructions explaining why the specific allocation ticket could not be processed. If the dealer rejects all of the allocations as in step the trade will be returned to the customer and assigned the ERR state.

After all of the allocation tickets are processed and confirmed by the dealer the STP trading platform may generate an ETC in step . At this point the allocated trade is assigned the CONF state. Each ETC will preferably include all the information required to be disclosed under relevant government laws rules or regulations if applicable such as by way of example SEC Rule 10b 10. In addition the ETCs would provide dealers the ability to include any additional disclosures that they may wish to provide which are specific to the dealer. The ETC may also indicate that the customer should contact the dealer with whom it effected a transaction with any questions. Any such communication following delivery of the ETC would preferably occur directly between the dealer and the customer although the dealer and the customer may elect to use electronic messaging facilities provided by the STP trading platform . Persons of skill in the relevant art will recognize that although it is preferred that the ETC conform to applicable government laws rules or regulations the ETC of the present invention may be utilized in jurisdictions where not such applicable government laws rules or regulations exist. In such cases the ETC may still be used to electronically confirm trades in a binding fashion through use of master trading agreements and the like.

In operation the ETC is populated by the STP trading platform using the enriched trade details and allocations stored in the trade history database and the settlement instructions retrieved from the account management database to preferably provide a standardized electronic confirmation as required by government regulation. e.g. SEC Rule 10b 10 . Persons of skill will recognize that additional dealer disclosures can be automatically inserted or manually input into the standardized ETC form. Once the ETC is generated on the dealer side through transmission of the ETC through the STP trading platform the customer and prime broker receives and can review and electronically confirm the trade details through the STP trading platform by indicating an acceptance of the ETC. Upon confirmation by a customer in step the STP trading platform would display the transaction state as AFFM .

Each of the customer dealer and prime broker would have the ability to view download and or print their ETCs through the STP trading platform and may establish default procedures pursuant to which such ETCs are downloaded and or printed automatically. ETCs would also preferably be stored electronically by the STP trading platform in the trade history database although this feature is not required.

The STP trading platform may also enable the customer or a custodian or designated third party on behalf of the customer to accept the trade details and settlement instructions in a number of different ways. First the customer may use the back office management tools provided by the STP trading platform to receive the trade details and the related settlement instructions from the dealer and manually compare the information it receives against its internal records. If the customer agrees that the information it received from the dealer matches with the information in its database the customer will transmit an indication that the customer affirms the trade details and the settlement instructions via the STP trading platform to the dealer.

Alternatively the STP trading platform may provide functionality to enable customers to electronically affirm trade details and settlement instructions in order to electronically match trade data submitted by dealers and customers. In such instances the electronic confirmation would be based on the matched trade data and other information provided. In one exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform records the trade details on behalf of the customer as trades are effected via the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform as described above. In a second exemplary embodiment trade information is made available to the STP trading platform through an API that interacts with the customer s internal trade processing systems and or order management systems as also described above.

The trade details and settlement instructions provided by the customer are then electronically matched by the STP trading platform to trade details and settlement instructions provided by the dealer on the STP trading platform . If the trade details and settlement instructions received from the dealer match the information provided or made available to the STP trading platform by the customer the STP trading platform will electronically and automatically affirm the trade on behalf of the customer.

The STP trading platform may also transmit the affirmed trade confirmation in accordance with the applicable self regulatory organization rules directly to a depository such as the Depository Trust Clearing Corporation DTCC or a settlement agent for settlement of the trade.

With reference to in the exemplary embodiment on a periodic basis a settlement instruction validation system compares the data in the account profiles stored on the account management system to known data sources. By making such a comparison the settlement instruction validation system can determine whether there are any errors present in the stored settlement instructions.

By way of non limiting example on one level the settlement instruction validation system compares settlement instructions to databases such as the SWIFT BIC the Euroclear code and other like directories comprising codes for various entities and securities involved in the settlement process. Furthermore the settlement instruction validation system may perform character based validation. In this example the settlement instruction validation system compares known standards for certain fields with the actual stored fields. For example it is known that Bank Routing Number or ABA number must have 8 digits. The settlement instruction validation system would detect an ABA number field with less than 8 digits. Errors can be reported in a summary validation report that may be issued daily weekly monthly or on some other time basis as a matter of design choice. The reports would identify errors in stored settlement instructions and permit correction to avoid settlement failures.

In one embodiment as is described in published U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0234807 entitled Method and System for Effecting Straight through Processing of Trades of Various Financial Instruments the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference the STP trading platform is programmed to generate performance reports for customers and dealers to enable enriched tracking of trade executed and STP performance. Those reports can also be extended to include reports that incorporate prime brokerage functionality and STP performance.

In one embodiment of the present invention a customer can utilize multiple prime brokers for a single trade and either use such prime brokers in tandem with each other or use the prime brokers as alternatives to each other. An embodiment showing the additional steps required in the flow of a trade using multiple prime brokers on the STP Trading Platform will now be shown and described in more detail with reference to . First as discussed above a customer selects prime brokers to use in the execution of trades. For each prime broker an agreement is executed that outlines and governs the relationship between such prime broker and the customer and sets forth when such prime broker will step into a trade on customer s behalf. Step . The electronic trading component operative on customer computer generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for allowing the customer to identify its prime brokers as discussed above. When a customer chooses to execute a trade using multiple brokers the customer and dealer agree to the details of the trade as they would in a non prime broker or single prime broker transaction using the STP Trading Platform as discussed above and the customer alerts the dealer that it wishes to use its prime broker to carry out the trade. Step . Next the back office management component operative on the prime brokers computers generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for allowing the trade details to populate the prime brokers screens and the details are similarly electronically transmitted and displayed to the dealer and customer as discussed above. Step and Step .

Once the prime broker have reviewed the details of the trade each prime broker can either approve or reject the trade based on its relationship with the customer. Step . If for example the first prime broker rejects the trade the customer and dealer receive notification of the prime broker s rejection. If the first prime broker accepts the trade a determination is made as to whether the first prime broker is acting in a give up capacity. Step . If the first prime broker is not acting in a give up capacity but rather only providing GTS a message indicating the successful trade and the allocation details is transmitted to the dealer customer and prime broker via the respective back office management components and . Step . If the prime broker is acting in a give up capacity once the trade details are approved by the prime broker the prime broker replaces the executing dealer as the counterparty for the trade with the customer and steps in as the counterparty to the trade with the executing dealer. Step . A message including the details of the trade which list the prime broker and the dealer as parties of the transaction and allocation details are sent to the dealer customer and prime broker s as applicable. Step .

If the first prime broker has rejected its participation in the trade and the second prime broker has reviewed the details of the trade the second prime broker can either approve or reject the trade based on its relationship with the customer. Step . If for example the second prime broker rejects the trade the customer and dealer receive notification of the prime broker s rejection. Step If the second prime broker accepts the trade a determination is made as to whether the second prime broker is acting in a give up capacity. Step . If the second prime broker is not acting in a give up capacity but rather only providing GTS a message indicating the successful trade and the allocation details is transmitted to the dealer customer and prime broker via the respective back office management components and . Step . If the prime broker is acting in a give up capacity once the trade details are approved by the prime broker the prime broker replaces the executing dealer as the counterparty for the trade with the customer and steps in as the counterparty to the trade with the executing dealer. Step . A message including the details of the trade which list the prime broker and the dealer as parties of the transaction and allocation details are sent to the dealer customer and prime broker s as applicable. Step .

If the second prime broker has rejected its participation in the trade and the third prime broker has reviewed the details of the trade the third prime broker can either approve or reject the trade based on its relationship with the customer. Step . If for example the third prime broker rejects the trade the customer and dealer receive notification of the prime broker s rejection. Step If the third prime broker accepts the trade a determination is made as to whether the third prime broker is acting in a give up capacity. Step . If the third prime broker is not acting in a give up capacity but rather only providing GTS a message indicating the successful trade and the allocation details is transmitted to the dealer customer and prime broker via the respective back office management components and respectively. Step . If the prime broker is acting in a give up capacity once the trade details are approved by the prime broker the prime broker replaces the executing dealer as the counterparty for the trade with the customer and steps in as the counterparty to the trade with the executing dealer. Step . A message including the details of the trade which list the prime broker and the dealer as parties of the transaction and allocation details are sent to the dealer customer and prime broker s as applicable. Step .

The above process repeats itself for each prime broker identified by the customer. If all of the prime brokers reject the trade the trade remains between the dealer and the customer and the prime broker is excluded. Alternatively if the multiple prime brokers are adding in tandem on the customer s behalf each prime broker can approve or reject their portion of the trade in accordance with the flow discussed above.

Thus while there have been shown and described fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of the disclosed invention may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

