---

title: Status designation for dispensing device systems and methods
abstract: Systems, methods, and devices are described related to the assignment and management of patient-specific bins. A dispensing device at a healthcare facility includes a number of bins for storage of medical supplies, with some of the bins designated as patient-specific bins allocated to be assigned to patients for storage of their medications or certain other supplies. A central server computer system, in communication with a computer of the dispensing device, may monitor and assign current and future patient-specific use of the bins for the dispensing device. The assignment and management of patient-specific bins may be performed by devices distributed through the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155786&OS=08155786&RS=08155786
owner: Omnicell, Inc.
number: 08155786
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080617
---
This application claims priority from the following U.S. Provisional patent applications U.S. Patent Application No. 60 944 995 filed on Jun. 19 2007 entitled PATIENT SPECIFIC BINS and U.S. Patent Application No. 60 991 547 filed on Nov. 30 2007 entitled PATIENT SPECIFIC BIN SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES . This application is related to the following U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 964 filed concurrently herewith entitled PATIENT SPECIFIC BIN SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 964 filed concurrently herewith entitled PATIENT SPECIFIC BIN ASSIGNMENT SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 969 filed concurrently herewith entitled MANAGEMENT OF PATENT TRANSFER SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 971 filed concurrently herewith entitled REMOVAL OR RETURN OF ITEMS ASSOCIATED WITH A PATIENT SPECIFIC BIN SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 975 filed concurrently herewith entitled IDENTIFYING ITEMS FOR RESTOCKING OF A DISPENSING DEVICE SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 979 filed concurrently herewith entitled BIN ALLOCATION SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 983 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 027 749 filed concurrently herewith entitled HANDLING OF PATIENT S OWN MEDICINE SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 985 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 073 563 filed concurrently herewith entitled HANDLING OF MULTI USE ITEM SYSTEMS METHODS AND DEVICES . This application hereby incorporates by reference herein the content of the aforementioned applications in their entirety and for all purposes.

The present invention in general relates to managing the storage and distribution of medications and other medical supplies at a healthcare facility and in particular to patient specific bins.

At many healthcare facilities it may be beneficial for items to be available for use at specific locations. For example in hospitals practitioners may find it convenient to place medications including pharmaceuticals and other supply items near where patients are being treated. A nursing station is one such location as nurses may find it more efficient to have certain medications readily available. Depending on the type of items to be dispensed the environment where the items are to be used and the like a variety of dispensing cabinets have been employed.

Typically medications are placed in dispensing units which each store a specific item to be used for a number of different patients. However this type of storage configuration often leads to storage of supplies at multiple locations which may give rise to delivery inefficiencies. This item specific storage and distribution model may also give rise to billing discrepancies and inventory control challenges. It would therefore be beneficial to create systems methods or devices which address one or more of the issues raised above while still providing for distributed storage of medications.

Systems methods and devices are described for the storage and distribution of medications and other supplies at a healthcare facility. A dispensing device e.g. a cabinet at the facility includes a number of bins for storage of medications and other supplies and some of the bins may be allocated as patient specific bins available to be assigned for patient specific storage and dispensing functions.

A central server computer system in communication with a computer of the dispensing device may assign and monitor current and future patient specific use of the bins for the dispensing device. Both the stocking and removal of items from patient specific bins may be managed by the central server computer system. The central server computer system may also manage the handling of medications and bin assignments during the transfer or discharge of a patient. Management of multi use items and items brought to the healthcare facility by the patient is provided for as well.

A central dispensing unit such as a pharmacy may be in communication with the central server computer system and dispensing device computer to stock or restock the dispensing device at the appropriate levels. In some embodiments the assignment and management of patient specific bins may be performed by devices e.g. the dispensing device distributed through the system.

Systems methods and devices are described for storing and distributing medications from a dispensing device which includes patient specific bins. A dispensing device such as a cabinet includes a number of bins for storing and dispensing medications. Some of the bins are allocated to be assigned to a patient for exclusive use by the patient and these bins may be referred to herein as patient specific bins. In contrast item specific bins of the dispensing device are bins allocated for storage of one or more units of a medication independent of a relationship to a particular patient. The medication stored in such bins may be available for use by a number of patients.

The following description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the ensuing description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Thus various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different than that described and that various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner.

It should also be appreciated that any of the following systems methods devices and software may be a component of a larger system wherein other procedures may take precedence over or otherwise modify their application. Also a number of steps may be required before after or concurrently with the following embodiments.

Referring to an example of a system is illustrated for storing and distributing medical supplies from a dispensing device which includes PSBs. The system includes a dispensing device e.g. a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies. As used herein medical supplies include pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies provided for care or service of a patient at a healthcare facility. The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with data stores a central dispensing unit and the dispensing device . In some embodiments one or more of these components may be removed or substituted with other devices.

In one embodiment the dispensing device includes one or more patient specific bins PSBs and one or more item specific bins ISBs . PSBs are assigned to a patient for exclusive use during a determined or undetermined period of time. A PSB may be used for the storage and distribution of medications and other medical supplies for the assigned patient. An ISB is a bin which is assigned to an item independent of the item s relation to a patient e.g. it may be for use among two or more patients . A dispensing device may be any cabinet or other device for dispensing medications or other medical supplies to patients in a healthcare facility. In other embodiments aspects of the system may be used in different settings to dispense a range of other items. A dispensing device may be stationary such as a nursing cabinet serving a particular area of a hospital or may be mobile. The dispensing device may be in wired or wireless communication with the central server computer system .

A bin may be any container mechanism location or zone in a dispensing device or unit therein including locations in locking and sensing drawers. A bin may for example include a set of storage locations within a drawer or area of a cabinet. Other types of bins include dispensers shelves racks and so on. In one embodiment only a subset of the bins in a given dispensing device may be designated as available for PSBs. In another embodiment the bins available for assignment as PSBs may be variable depending for example on the existing or future assignments of bins to PSBs or ISBs in a given cabinet.

The dispensing device may be located at a nursing station serving a number of rooms at an operating room at an emergency room at an intensive care unit or at a number of other locations as evident to those skilled in the art. The dispensing device may be mobile as well. The dispensing device may include a computer and console configured to manage the storage and distribution of medical supplies at the dispensing device and networked to communicate with the central server computer system . There may be different levels of security for particular bins within the bins of a given dispensing device 

The dispensing device may be made up of one or more dispensing mechanisms that are secured within the device with the mechanisms configured to dispense items from associated bins. Thus mechanisms may be used to give access to the bins to only authorized individuals. A dispensing mechanism may be configured with connections to a variety of bins that each hold items to be dispensed. Such an arrangement may be well suited for items that need to be secured such as medications drugs and the like. If a user is authorized such items may be dispensed from the dispensing device using the mechanism where they may fall into a dispense drawer that may be pulled to access the dispensing items. Depending on the particular configuration one or more bins of a dispensing mechanism may be assigned as a PSB or ISB.

A dispensing device may include a dispenser frame with reconfigurable dividers. In this way a wide variety of bin and dispensing mechanism arrangements may be provided by reconfiguring the dividers and or the location of the dispensing mechanisms on the dividers. Further various types of dispensing mechanisms may be accommodated. As noted above one or more bins and associated mechanisms may be assigned as a PSB or ISB.

Various sensing or detecting systems may be used to determine the configuration of the dividers and the addresses of the bins and dispensing mechanisms on the dividers so that the dispensing device computer and central server computer system may associate one or more items with particular bins. For example when reconfiguring locations a sensing mechanism such as a button may be pressed on the dispensing mechanism to indicate the new location of the dispensing mechanism.

The patient dispensing device is communicatively connected perhaps over a network with a central server computer system . The communication may be wired wireless or a combination thereof. The central server computer system may include for example one or more server computers personal computers workstations web servers or other suitable computing devices. The central server computer system may be configured to communicate with the dispensing device and perform and monitor the patient and bin assignments. The central server computer system may allocate bins as ISBs or PSBs and may either assign a patient to a bin or set of bins e.g. making an assignment of a patient to a bin upon check in or transfer or receive patient assignment information e.g. from the dispensing device computer . The central server computer system may identify items to be stocked restocked or removed from a bin and transmit this information and or receive identification of items which are or will be stocked restocked or removed e.g. from the dispensing device computer .

The central server computer system may also manage at least part of the transfer or discharge of a patient modifying patient bin assignments as appropriate. The central server computer system may identify the locations e.g. return to bin return to pharmacy return to patient for items to be destocked or otherwise removed with patient transfer or discharge. The central server computer system may also be configured to manage the cleanup or other removal of items from PSBs or ISBs independent of any patient transfer or discharge.

The central server computer system may be configured to track inventory of medical supplies at the central dispensing unit and the dispensing device . The central server computer system may be configured to consolidate and filter data received from the dispensing devices at one or more healthcare facilities and produce and or transmit audit or action reports based thereon. Using received data the central server computer system may be configured to generate restocking lists.

When a stocking or restocking list is generated e.g. by a central server computer system or perhaps by the patient dispensing device the dispensing device or other computing device may receive the list. To initially stock a bin or set of bins in the dispensing device a sensing mechanism such as a button may be pushed to identify the location. The type and quantity of the item stocked may then be entered into the computer associated with the dispensing device . By pressing the button the computer may detect the bin or set of bins being accessed and the item assigned to that address. A count may be verified the bin or set of bins restocked and the quantity entered and perhaps transmitted to the central server computer system . In some embodiments the central server computer system or the patient dispensing device computer may automatically direct the user to the PSB for the item to be stocked.

To restock a restock list may be generated. The dispensing device computer may be coupled to a network to permit various restock information to be downloaded to the computer e.g. from the central server computer system . Alternatively the computer on the dispensing device may locally generate the list. This information may be stored at the computer or else accessed when needed over the network. Visual indicators such as lights LEDs or the like on the dispensing locations that are to be restocked may then be actuated to guide the restock user or pharmacist through the restocking process. The button on the dispensing mechanism may be pushed to identify the dispensing mechanism that is being restocked and the expected quantity may be displayed on the display screen. A count may be verified the dispensing mechanism restocked and the quantity entered and perhaps transmitted to the central server computer system . In some embodiments the central server computer system or the patient dispensing device computer may automatically direct the user to the PSB for the item to be restocked.

In one embodiment the central server computer system is communicatively connected perhaps over a network to a set of data stores stored in local or remote memory. The data stores may be one or more relational databases or components of relational databases e.g. tables object databases or components of object databases spreadsheets text files internal software lists or any other type of data structure suitable for storing data. Thus it should be appreciated that data stores may each be multiple data storages of the same or different type or may share a common data storage with other data stores. The central server computer system may query the data stores for information to produce any of the output described above. The data stores may store information on which bins in each of any number of dispensing devices are available to be allocated as PSBs and which bins are presently allocated as PSBs or ISBs and may also list characteristics type size location security etc. of each bin. The data stores may also store information on the patient assignments for such bins.

The data stores may also store information on which dispensing devices are associated with a room or area of the healthcare facility. The data stores may store status information on particular assigned PSBs e.g. identifying whether a dispensing device is an active cabinet an interim or otherwise temporary cabinet or an inactive cabinet .

The data stores may store information regarding particular patients and the particular medication orders and other supplies currently prescribed for the patient. The data stores may store information on the past current or future associations between a patient his or her past active or future medication orders and his or her assigned room and PSBs e.g. identifying inventory of medical supplies for the patient at a PSB . In one embodiment an active medication order is a medication order that has a start date time that occurs in the past and a stop date time that occurs in the future or is indefinite in time a future medication order is a medication order that has a start date time that occurs in the future and a stop date time that occurs in the future or is indefinite in time a discontinued medication order is a medication order that is neither active nor future and thus is inactive and or has a stop date that occurs in the past. As used herein the term medication order may be an order associated with one or more medications. Thus a number of medication orders may be analyzed for a particular patient at a given time at a device or a single medication order may be analyzed including a number of medications. Thus it may be assumed that a reference herein to a medication order may be an order associated with a number of medications or to a number of orders each associated with one or more medications.

In one embodiment the central server computer system is communicatively connected perhaps over a network to one or more central dispensing units . A central dispensing unit may for example be a pharmacy storage and retrieval system which has a number of automated aspects. Thus a central dispensing unit may receive stocking or restocking information from the central server computer system or perhaps from a computer on the patient dispensing device and dispense the medications specified in an automated or partially automated fashion for cart fills or for cart less or other environments. The computer system associated with the central dispensing unit may be independent from the central server computer system or there may be various levels of integration. The central dispensing unit may be any automated packaging distribution device controlled substance distribution device automated medication dispensing device or other device or mechanism that distributes medications or other supplies to patient dispensing devices . Thus the central dispensing unit may be a centralized medication distributor located in a healthcare facility pharmacy. In one embodiment the central dispensing unit may be a local or remote computing device configured to identify and track the dispensation of medication.

Referring next to an example of an alternative system is illustrated for storing and distributing medical supplies from a dispensing device which includes PSBs. The system includes a dispensing device for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals or other medications . The dispensing device of may be implemented to include the functions of the patient dispensing device described with reference to and thus in one embodiment may be implemented in the system of .

The dispensing device which may for example be configured as a cabinet includes a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies to patients. One or more of the bins or a subpart of such a bin may be allocated for use as a PSB and assigned to a patient. The dispensing device also includes a computer . The dispensing device computer may be configured to complete any of the functions or any subset thereof that may be performed by the central server computer system of . Therefore functions described above to be performed by the central server computer system of may be performed in whole or in part by a computer local to a dispensing device . In this way all or part of a system may be configured to operate in a centralized or more distributed manner.

By way of example the dispensing device computer may be configured to allocate bins as ISBs or PSBs and may either assign a patient to a bin or set of bins or receive patient assignment information. The dispensing device computer may also manage at least part of the transfer or discharge of a patient modifying patient bin assignments as appropriate. The dispensing device computer may also manage and direct the cleaning or other removal of items from a device independently from the transfer or discharge process. The dispensing device computer may identify the locations for items to be removed e.g. return bin return to pharmacy return to patient with patient transfer discharge or other triggering event. The dispensing device computer may be configured to track inventory of medical supplies. The dispensing device computer may transmit information on its actions to the central server computer system .

Similarly the dispensing device computer may include memory which may store any of the information that is stored in the data stores of . The memory of the dispensing device computer may include information limited to the associated dispensing device or it may include information on other patient dispensing devices e.g. covering an area making up a subset of an entire facility .

The system may also include a central dispensing unit communicatively connected to the patient dispensing device perhaps over a network. The central dispensing unit could receive stocking or restocking information from the patient dispensing device and dispense the medications specified in an automated or partially automated fashion for cart fills or for cart less or other environments.

Turning next to a block diagram shows a system for storing and distributing medications and other supplies from dispensing devices which include PSBs. The system of illustrates one embodiment of the system described with reference to . The system of includes a number of patient dispensing devices including an intensive care device ICU dispensing device an operating room OR dispensing device and a number of nursing unit cabinet dispensing devices to which may be referred to hereinafter as nursing unit cabinets . These may also be mobile dispensing devices such as carts not shown . PSBs in a mobile dispensing device may serve to store and deliver medications to the PSBs for the patient at a stationary device e.g. via a cart fill or during a patient transfer . These patient dispensing devices may be generally configured as described for the dispensing devices of or B. Dispensing devices may include only PSBs only ISBs or a combination of PSBs and ISBs. Also a dispensing device may be made up of a number of distinct physical cabinets logically linked together in a room area or healthcare facility.

The system of also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected to each of the dispensing devices . The central server computer system of may perform any of the functions described with reference to for each of the dispensing devices . The system of also includes a central dispensing unit which in this embodiment is located in the healthcare facility pharmacy and is communicatively connected to the central server computer system . The central dispensing unit includes an automated storage and retrieval device and an additional pharmacy dispensing unit 

The central server computer system may generate audit reports with information received from one or more of the dispensing devices and may also generate stocking or restocking lists to be transmitted to and filled at the central dispensing unit . The central server computer system may use the received information to efficiently allocate stocking and restocking across different carts which may each serve one or more dispensing devices and run at different intervals . The audit functions and list generation may also be performed by the computer associated with a particular dispensing device .

In this embodiment the central server computer system is communicatively connected perhaps over a network to data stores stored in local or remote memory. The data stores may include a rooms table which identifies rooms or other areas in the healthcare facility and identifies the dispensing device or devices associated with each room or associated with an area in which the room is located . Typically a dispensing device may be associated with a number of rooms which may be illustrated in the rooms table . There may also be a primary association and one or more secondary associations. The rooms table may also include a listing of the patient associated with the room and may indicate any PSBs associated or assigned to the room and or patient.

The data stores may also include a bins table which includes a listing of which bins may be allocated for patient assignment. The bins table may thus include information on which bins in each of any number of dispensing devices are available to be allocated as PSBs and which bins are presently allocated as PSBs or ISBs and may also list characteristics type size location control level security etc. of each bin. The bins table may also store information on the particular patients assigned to each such bin e.g. listing the patient assigned to the bin as well as any other bins to which the patient is assigned .

In one embodiment when a bin at a dispensing device is allocated for use as a PSB it may also be associated with an item group. There may be a range of different item groups for each healthcare facility. Each item group may be defined as including a set of items of a certain class e.g. respiratory refrigerated ambulance etc. . Information about the item group or groups associated with a PSB may be stored in the bins table as well. Only items belonging to the matching group s will be allowed to be stored in the PSB. A number of different item groups may be defined e.g. in another table in data stores associating each group with a one or more different items . One item group may be a default or general group including all items not associated with other groups. Each item at a healthcare facility may be associated with a group.

In one embodiment a user will be granted access to a set of one or more item groups. When a user attempts to access a PSB group access will be enforced in addition to control level access. For some item groups there may be no user access restrictions. A dispensing device or central server computer system may enforce the PSB group designation rules such that all PSBs in the same physical access area have the same group designation.

Therefore the bins table may associate a bin with different storage and access restrictions. A first type of storage and access restriction may be related to Drug Enforcement Agency drug classifications limiting the type control level of medications that may be stored in certain bins and limiting access to those bins to only certain users. A second type of storage and access restriction may be related to the item group associated with the bin. The healthcare facility or other entity may establish rules limiting the type of medications that may be stored in bins associated with each item group and limiting access to those bins to certain users e.g. only those users granted access to bins of those groups . For a PSB associated with each type of storage and access restriction a user would have to have control level and item group access to be granted access.

The data stores may also include an items table . The items table may be configured to store information and track which items are assigned to which bins. The items table may include information on the inventory level the control level the item group and on whether the item is under an active or future medication order. The items table may include information regarding whether the bin is a PSB or an ISB and on whether the bin is assigned to a patient and perhaps identify the assigned patient .

The data stores may store consolidated information on the current associations between a patient his or her past active or future medication orders and his or her past present or future assigned room s and PSBs. It is also worth noting that the data stores may store status information on particular assigned PSBs e.g. identifying whether a dispensing device is an active cabinet an interim or otherwise temporary cabinet or an inactive cabinet . The data stores may also store information identifying each user s item group access privileges and control level access privileges.

In one embodiment the central server computer system is communicatively connected via a network to a distributor supplier . The central server computer system or a particular dispensing unit may access the data stores and the central dispensing unit to determine inventory levels and active and future orders for certain supplies and communicate order levels to the distributor supplier so that certain inventory levels are maintained. One or more user terminals may program or administer the system and order or request audit or restocking reports.

One example of a patient dispensing device is illustrated in . The patient dispensing device in this embodiment is a cabinet which may be constructed from a cabinet frame with various transparent panels . Cabinet further includes a pair of doors and that enclose a series of shelves within the cabinet . These enclosed areas may be temperature controlled or refrigerated in various embodiments. Shelves may be divided into various storage locations using adjustable dividers . Further associated with each storage location may be an item button that may be pressed to record the removal of items from or placement of items into each storage location. A light may also be positioned adjacent each item button to guide the user to a specific storage location. Further a label may be associated with each storage location and may include information on the items stored in a particular storage location. Optionally doors and may be locked and only opened when appropriate identification information has been entered into a computer . Hence to remove an item from one of the shelves a user e.g. a nurse user or other caregiver user may enter appropriate identification information into computer . In other embodiments the storage locations or zones could vary in size configuration and security. The locations may be allocated for assignment to patients as PSBs and the locations available may be adjusted depending on current and projected use levels and occupancy factors. PSB allocation and patient bin assignment may be made by the computer or received from a remote location e.g. central server computer system of .

To facilitate the entry of information the computer may include a traditional keyboard and a key pad containing numeric keys. A touch pad may be disposed above key pad and used to control a pointer on a display screen . Disposed below key pad are keys to control the contrast of display screen and to control the sound that may be emitted from a speaker . Disposed below keyboard is a receipt port through which printed receipts or labels may pass. The panel containing keyboard may be rotated downward to gain access to the receipt printer. The illustrated computer configuration is for purposes of example only in other embodiments any subset of the features may be employed and particular implementations and input devices may vary.

One use of the various input devices on the computer is to permit the user to select one or more items that are to be removed. A list of items generated by the computer or received from the central server computer system may be displayed on the display screen . Further display screen may be a touch screen display that permits various items to be selected simply by touching them on a display screen . Computer may be coupled to any type of computer network to permit various information to be supplied to computer e.g. by the central server computer system of . For example stock or restock lists may be transmitted from the central server computer system as may lists for cleaning or other removal of items.

When the appropriate items have been selected doors and may be unlocked in cases where doors and are already locked and the appropriate lights may be lighted to guide the user to the items selected. Upon removal of the items the user may press item buttons a number of times corresponding to the number of items removed. A similar process may be used for restocking items into the storage locations.

A cabinet may further include a pharmacy section with various drawers for holding pharmaceutical items or other types of items that need additional security. When appropriate information has been entered into computer the appropriate drawers may be unlocked and lights on the drawers lighted to guide the user to the appropriate doors. Drawers may conveniently include various bins e.g. allocated as PSBs or ISBs which may optionally have lockable lids to provide additional security to the items. The lids corresponding to bins that have the selected items may be unlocked and users may be guided to the unlocked bins using lights in a manner similar to that described with shelves .

In one embodiment pharmacy section further includes a dispensing unit area . Briefly dispensing unit area includes a dispensing unit frame that is insertable into cabinet frame of cabinet . Coupled to the dispensing unit frame is a door that may be opened to provide access to dispenser frame. Although dispensing mechanisms may typically be associated with items for use by a number of patients particular bins associated with dispensing mechanisms may be assigned to patients in some embodiments. Below dispenser frame is a dispense drawer that receives items that fall from dispensing mechanisms after such items have been selected at computer . Bins within the dispense drawer may be assigned as PSBs on a temporary or more permanent basis to specific patients. The dispense drawer may include a light to guide the user to the dispense drawer during dispensing operations. A handle may be provided on door to facilitate opening of door . The door may include a light to guide the user to the door during dispensing operations.

In some cases dispensed items may need to be returned to cabinet . In some situations various laws regulations or facility policies prohibit dispensed items from being placed back into cabinet . As such attached to or otherwise integrated into cabinet may be a return unit having a slidable or rotatable door that may be opened to permit the item to be placed into the return unit . When returning the item information regarding the return may be entered into computer . A light on the return unit may be lighted to indicate to the user that the item may be returned. The return unit is preferably configured so that once an item is placed into the unit the item cannot be retrieved from the return unit unless a restock user or technician is authorized to gain access. For example a restock technician may be required to enter appropriate information into computer to cause the return unit to unlock to allow access to the items within.

Although one specific arrangement of cabinet has been described it will be appreciated that any subset or combination of the above PSB components may be used with a variety of dispensing cabinets. For example a dispensing mechanism and unit may be placed within a cabinet that is used solely for dispensing pharmaceuticals and may only include drawers similar to drawers . As another alternative such mechanisms and units may be placed in a cabinet that only includes shelves that are similar to shelves . Further such mechanisms and units may be used in cabinets having multiple shelves and or drawers that are placed side by side in a vertical arrangement. Also a dispensing cabinet may include multiple dispensing unit areas . These may be sized to the same size or may be different sizes. Still further in some cases such dispensing cabinets may include other types of shelves racks drawers and the like to facilitate the storage of items.

Referring next to an illustration of one embodiment of a drawer from is shown. The allocations and patient assignments described with reference to the drawer may be employed in other embodiments. In one embodiment the drawer includes a number of bins . There are a first subset of the bins that may be allocated to be assigned to patients and a second subset that may be allocated for assignment to items. In one embodiment the computer or perhaps the central server computer system may vary the allocations according to current and or projected future inventory and use levels. In other embodiments a drawer may be configured of only PSBs.

There are a number of different configurations of other types of dispensing devices and illustrates yet another example of such a device. The illustrated dispensing device may include one or all of the functions of the patient dispensing devices described with reference to the system of or the system of and thus may be implemented in either system. Thus the device may be in wired or wireless communication with the central server computer system .

The dispensing device includes a cabinet having a number of retractable drawers . Although shown with 12 drawers the number of drawers may be varied. The cabinet may rest upon wheels which allow the dispensing device to be wheeled throughout the healthcare facility. The cabinet may be battery powered and configured to communicate wirelessly e.g. to allow communication while in transit . The cabinet may be fashioned with various dimensions.

The dispensing device further includes an integrated computer hidden within cabinet and a keyboard for entering various information into the computer. For example keyboard may be employed to enter patient identification information user identification information requests for item stocking and removal and the like into the computer. Optionally the dispensing device may further include a second entry device which is connected to the computer and includes a screen which allows the user to scroll through various lists of information in order to select a highlighted item. For example a caregiver may scroll through a list of patient names or item names in order to select a certain patient or to enter an item removal or stocking request. In one embodiment the screen may be a color touch screen. The touch screen may be configured to allow a user to interact with the dispensing cabinet with or without having to use the keyboard mouse or other traditional methods as the touch screen functionality allows a user to touch their selection directly. The touch screen may be a color touch screen and color distinctions may inform and guide the user e.g. alerts or warnings in yellow item unavailability in grey next steps in green .

A printer may be provided on cabinet to print various reports or labels generated by the computer. In other embodiments some of the computing functionality for a device e.g. display input device reader etc. may be detachable or otherwise separate from the device and may communicate wirelessly with the device or central server computer system .

The cabinet may further include a magnetic bar code RFID data collector or other reader which is connected directly or wirelessly to the computer. Such a reader may be employed on any of the dispensing devices described herein. It may be configured to manually or automatically scan for types and associated quantities or levels then provide the data to the cabinet or to the central computer system . The reader may be provided to allow a user a patient or particular medications or other supplies to be identified. For example an identifier e.g. magnetic bar code RFID or other identifier may be read from a medication container when an item is stocked restocked or removed. The identifier and amount may then be transmitted to the central server computer system or otherwise stored for purposes of tracking inventory. Similarly an identifier e.g. magnetic bar code RFID or other identifier from an access card or other instrument may be read from the user of the device or patient associated with the device. The reader may also be employed to read an identification device associated with the drawers as well.

To retrieve or remove items of a particular patient a user e.g. a nurse user or other caregiver patient automated system etc. may enter user identification e.g. a password PIN smart card RFID combination thereof etc. using keyboard reader or entry device . The user or the computer may then identify the patient. The patient identification may be entered by the user using keyboard reader or entry device . The user may select the desired medication or other supplies or the computer or a central server computer system may direct the user via lights or a listing for example . The user may also enter the number of items of the selected type that are to be removed or retrieved for the patient. The user may then retract the proper drawer and will be led to the correct bin. There may also be a step of verifying the count of specific items taken by prompting the user to enter via keyboard or entry device the number of items of the specific type that were removed or supplied and the number remaining. A record of this event may also be maintained within the computer or may be transmitted to the central server computer system of or B or elsewhere. A variety of other removal alternatives may be used as well.

For stocking and restocking of items into dispensing device the pharmacy or other central dispensing unit e.g. central dispensing unit of or B may prepare all items for a particular cart fill at a particular PSB or set of PSBs together in a set of packages or other container. For example all of the medications for a given PSB may be gathered and consolidated at the pharmacy or other central dispensing unit before they are placed in the cart. The computer for the cabinet or perhaps the central server computer system of or B may transmit the restock list to the pharmacy or a list may be processed locally at the pharmacy. The process of gathering and consolidating the supplies for a particular PSB may therefore take place at the pharmacy or other central dispensing unit instead of at the dispensing device . This may provide a more secure environment and result in less loss. It may also be more efficient for a pharmacist instead of a nurse user to perform these tasks.

To stock or restock a PSB the user may enter user patient and or packages container identification e.g. a password PIN label serial number bar code identification device smart card RFID etc. using keyboard reader or entry device . Thus the entry of user patient or packages container identification information or any combination thereof may trigger the restocking process. The computer for the cabinet perhaps controlled by the central server computer system of or B may direct the user e.g. via lights or screen information to place the packages container in the appropriate PSB. The action may be logged and perhaps transmitted to the central server computer system .

In other embodiments instead of having the pharmacy or other dispensing entity consolidate the restocking items individual items may be placed in a PSB or ISB on an item by item basis at the dispensing device . For example the pharmacy or other central dispensing unit e.g. central dispensing unit of or B or central server computer system of or B may be in frequent contact with dispensing devices. Information may be exchanged with the dispensing devices and in particular information on the current quantity on hand for each item in each dispensing device. At regular intervals e.g. every morning a restock list may be generated for each dispensing device detailing the total quantity of each item to be taken to the dispensing devices to bring the quantity in each receptacle e.g. PSB or ISB up to a predetermined or dynamically calculated par level.

As another alternative a pre stocked liner for one or more bins may be prepared at the pharmacy central dispensing unit or elsewhere. The replacement liner may be configured to have the same arrangement of bins and items or a different arrangement of bins and items. A variety of other restocking systems may be used as well. Although the retrieval and stocking are described with reference to the cabinet of these procedures may be applied to other dispensing devices e.g. the dispensing device of or B as well. The stocking or restocking may be performed when a patient first checks into a hospital when there is a need for refills or in managing a transfer to name a few instances.

Referring now to an example of one of the drawers from will be described in greater detail. This drawer embodiment may be employed in a number of alternative dispensing devices as well. Moreover in other embodiments a variety of different drawer configurations may be utilized and this configuration is for purposes of example only. Drawer of includes a frame having a handle and a track which allows the tray to be slid in and out of cabinet . A visual indicator such as an LED is provided on the drawer to allow a specific drawer to be identified upon entering or otherwise receiving an item removal or stocking request. The drawer may be configured to receive a removable liner which holds the items to be dispensed. Liner is divided into a number of bins which may be allocated or assigned as PSBs or ISBs as described above . The bins in this embodiment include adjustable transverse dividers and longitudinal dividers . Attached to at least some of the dividers are light pipes which are employed to guide a user to a specific bin. Liner is configured to rest within the frame and may be removed by simply lifting the liner from drawer by handles .

Referring now to an example of one of the liners from will be described in greater detail. In other embodiments a variety of other liner configurations may be utilized and this configuration is for purposes of example only. Within the liner there are a number of apertures for receiving light pipes . Apertures are large enough to allow light pipes to pass through liner . Apertures are in a two dimensional array so that an aperture will be present for each light pipe in a number of divider configurations. In one embodiment two light pipes attached to separate dividers perhaps opposite each other will be associated with each bin. In another embodiment a single light pipe may uniquely identify each bin.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of associating medications with bins in a dispensing device is described. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or .

At block one or more bins at a dispensing device associated with a patient are allocated for PSB use and or assigned to a patient for use as PSBs. At block one or more different bins at the dispensing device are allocated for use as ISBs to be assigned to hold one or more units of a particular item for use by a number of patients. At block one or more medication orders for the patient are analyzed to identify a first set of medications from the medication order s as medications stored in the ISBs. At block the medication order s are analyzed to identify a second set of medications from the medication order s as medications to be stored for the patient in PSBs. The medication order s may be compared to a listing of items stored in the item specific bins to identify the second set of medications. At block a subset of the second set of medications is associated with a selected one of the PSBs. The selected PSB may be identified automatically or may be selected by a user.

The medication order information for the patient may be received from other devices in the system. In one embodiment the medication order information may be used to determine automatically which items to place in the selected PSB for the patient. The identifying data may then be transmitted e.g. to the dispensing device or central dispensing unit of . The inventory at the selected PSB may be tracked by monitoring stocking and removal e.g. when a central server computer system receives stocking and removal information transmitted from a dispensing device . Items to be restocked in the selected PSB may be identified based in part on the received medication order information and the tracked inventory.

The foregoing discussion provides a generalized description of a range of novel aspects of a system including PSBs. In turning to specific embodiments additional novel aspects will now be discussed in Sections I XIII. Although the system of is directly or indirectly referenced in the following description of certain embodiments of the invention it must be emphasized that all illustrated components need not be used. Similarly components not illustrated in the system of may be used in certain embodiments. For example similar components e.g. the central server computer system of the system in may be used. Therefore it should be recognized that any description related to is for purposes of example only. Moreover although many of the functions may be described as being performed by the central server computer system the functions described or any subset thereof may be performed by the computer of patient dispensing device of or B or dispensing device of .

In the following discussion the items to be dispensed are often described as medications. However this is for purposes of example only as the principles set forth may be applied to the storage of other medical supplies as well. In a number of embodiments described below the system includes a patient dispensing device e.g. a nursing unit cabinet with a subset of bins allocated for assignment to a patient as PSBs. While it may not be noted in each instance there may also be ISBs available for assignment to a particular type of item to be used by a number of patients. In this application the term PSB is used interchangeably with the term patient specific bin and the term ISB is used interchangeably with the term item specific bin. 

I. Status Designation for Dispensing Device In one set of embodiments a patient may be associated with dispensing devices at two different physical locations at the same time. Referring initially back to the system of the system may be configured to address the instances when a patient s physical location is mobile or transitory within a healthcare facility. Each dispensing device may have a different designated status defining the services to be provided at the respective device. A system may therefore be configured to be flexible to address patient needs at different locations and in instances when a location e.g. a room or area associated with a patient is a future past temporary or mobile location. Status designation may also address circumstances when the patient s actual location is uncertain or unknown.

Therefore in one embodiment a central server computer system of associates a different status to two or more dispensing devices associated with a patient. In doing so when a PSB in the dispensing device is assigned to the patient the status designation of the dispensing device may define the status of the PSB as well. Thus status designations may be attributed to a particular dispensing device or a PSB. A status designation may indicate which services are to be provided to a patient at a given location.

Turning to an example of a system is illustrated for designating the status of a dispensing device which includes patient specific bins. The illustrated system includes two dispensing devices dispensing device a and dispensing device b . Each device may for example be a dispensing device or of B or and thus may be a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies for a patient at a healthcare facility . The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with each dispensing device . The central server computer system may be the central server computer system of B or . The system may include any other number of connected dispensing devices not shown and thus the illustrated embodiment is for purposes of example only.

Dispensing device a may be associated with location a . This association may indicate that dispensing device a is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which include location a . The patient may be physically located within one of the rooms of location a and the central server computer system may reflect this association. However in some embodiments location a may be a past or future location for the patient or be another type of room or location e.g. an operating room emergency room a transitory location between two rooms etc. .

Dispensing device b may be associated with location b . This association may also indicate that dispensing device b is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which include location b . The patient may again be associated with location b as the location b may be a past present or future location of the patient either in fact or as represented by the central server computer system .

Therefore because a patient may be associated with dispensing devices at two different locations and the patient medication and other supply needs may be served from each location. However in one embodiment there is a different status associated with each dispensing device and the status providing an indication of the services which are allowed or are required to be provided at each device and thereby at one or more PSBs therein . The different status designations may concurrently be in effect. Each status designator may therefore provide different limitations and or requirements on the services that may be provided at each location at a given time e.g. user behavior may be restricted based on a first status designation at one device but not at another device with a different designation .

The central server computer system or perhaps a computer for each device may designate change and store the status associated with each device . The status designations may be mutually exclusive or the system may be configured to share designations among different devices.

There may be any number of status designations available for a given system . The following designations are possible but are only for purposes of example as those skilled in the art will recognize the range of possibilities 

For each status designation a different set of services may be allowed prohibited required etc. For example a status may require that certain services be provided and or may limit the services that are provided to certain users. The set of services that are associated with a given status may be set or they may be programmed or modified by an administrator. Certain users may be given the ability to override the set of services mandated or allowed at a device of a given status.

In one embodiment all or any subset of the following functions may be limited or mandated at a device or PSB based on a given status designation item removal item return return location item destock PSB control level PSB attribute modification restock and or restock supply level supplemental restock and supplemental restock supply level item assign or un assign patient bin assign or un assign PSB designation or reallocation transfer patient medications receive patient medications expiration tracking item bar code confirmation quantity verification witness requirements and or receive or remove patient s own medications. By way of example a status designation at a location may dictate where a restock list is to be sent which items are to be restocked at respective locations what quantities days supply are to be restocked when a cabinet should be cleaned which items are to be removed where removed items should be placed whether a patient is being transferred or discharged which patient care services may be provided at the location and so on.

The status designations may be entered by a user or may be entered or modified automatically e.g. the central server computer system or computer for the device . For example consider an example of a patient moving from location a to location b . The status designation of a first device may be changed automatically upon receiving information confirming the patient has physically arrived at location b . The status designation of the first device may be changed automatically upon receiving information confirming the patient has physically departed from location a or that the patient s physical location has otherwise changed. Thus a status designation change may be automatically triggered by a confirmation of a physical location change departure arrival other change . The changed status designation may trigger removal of items stored in a PSB for the patient at dispensing device a e.g. triggering immediate removal or simply when a user next uses the device .

Referring next to an example of a system is illustrated for designating the status of dispensing devices which include PSBs. The illustrated system includes three such dispensing devices dispensing device a dispensing device b and dispensing device c . Each device may for example be a dispensing device or of B or and thus may be a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies for a patient at a healthcare facility . The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with each dispensing device . The central server computer system may be the central server computer system of B or . The central server computer system may include any other number of communicatively connected dispensing devices not shown and thus the illustrated embodiment is for purposes of example only.

Dispensing device a is associated with room e.g. in the rooms table of . This association may indicate that dispensing device a is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which include room . In this example the patient is initially physically located within room and the central server computer system reflects this association. In the current example dispensing device a is designated with an active status indicating that the dispensing device provides full functionality to the patient.

Dispensing device b is associated with an operating room e.g. in the rooms table of . This association may indicate that dispensing device b is a cabinet at the operating room or a nursing station serving the operating room . When the patient is moved to have a procedure performed in the operating room the central server computer system may reflect this association e.g. for a future operation or when the operation is occurring . Dispensing device b may be designated with a temporary status indicating that the dispensing device provides functionality to the patient e.g. restocking for only the scheduled operating time plus a margin. This may mean that the amount of restocking is limited and or that certain types of restocking lists should be routed only to the active dispensing device . Other limitations or requirements may be associated with the temporary status as well. Once it has been confirmed that the patient has physically left the operating room or returned to room after an operation dispensing device b could be designated with an inactive status triggering the cleaning of dispensing device b 

Dispensing device c is associated with room e.g. in a rooms table of . This association may indicate that dispensing device c is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which include room . The central server computer system may receive information that the patient is to be transferred to room and may reflect this association. Dispensing device c is designated with an active status indicating that the dispensing device provides full functionality to the patient. There may not yet be confirmation that the patient has vacated room . An interim status may therefore be designated to dispensing device a i.e. the room where the patient was located before a transfer . Note that stocked items at the interim PSB may not have been transferred and the patient may not yet have been physically transferred. A dispensing device with interim status may provide some subset of the functionality provided by the device with active status. After receiving confirmation that the patient and or his medication and other supplies at dispensing device a have been physically transferred e.g. a confirmation received by the central server computer system dispensing device a may be designated with inactive status for the patient.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of designating status to dispensing devices is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or . In this embodiment the dispensing device is a cabinet.

At block a first dispensing device serving a first location associated with a patient is identified. This may for example be a cabinet serving an area which includes a room that is currently assigned to the patient. Alternatively this may be a cabinet serving an area which includes a room that was previously assigned to a patient when the system lacks confirmation that the patient has left the room. This may also be a mobile cabinet serving a patient in transit e.g. within or outside a healthcare facility a temporary cabinet e.g. assigned during a procedure or a cabinet that will be assigned in the future. At block a first status is designated to the first dispensing device the first status identifying a first set of services which are allowed for the patient at the device.

At block a second dispensing device serving a second location associated with a patient is identified. This may for example be a cabinet serving an area which includes a room that is currently or was previously assigned to the patient or be a mobile temporary or future cabinet. At block a second status is designated to the second dispensing device the second status identifying a second set of services which are allowed for the patient at the device. At least a subset of the second set of services is not among the first set of services. In one embodiment therefore different status designations may specify the different services allowed for a device.

Referring next to an alternative embodiment of a method of designating status to dispensing devices is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof. Each step may be performed automatically without user or operator action or involvement or may in whole or in part be initiated and or performed by a user providing input to the applicable computing device. In this embodiment the dispensing device is a cabinet.

At block a first dispensing device is identified as serving a room assigned to a patient. At block a PSB in the first dispensing device is assigned to the patient. At block a first status is designated to the first dispensing device the first status identifying a set of services which are allowed for the PSB at the device. The allowed services may be identified indirectly for example via a listing of allowed services stored at the central server computer system the listing corresponding to the status .

At block a second dispensing device is identified as serving a second location associated with a patient. At block the first status is designated to the second dispensing device the first status again identifying the first set of services which are allowed for the patient at the device. At block the designation of the first dispensing device is changed to a second status the change triggered by the status designation at the second dispensing device. In one embodiment at least some of the status designators are mutually exclusive in other embodiments the status designator may be shared. At block a limited restocking is directed to the first dispensing device the limited restocking based at least in part on the second status. A limited restocking may mean that only certain items and or only smaller quantities of a given item are restocked at the device.

At block information is received confirming that the patient s physical location has changed e.g. that the patient has left the first location or that the patient has arrived at the second location. At block the designation of the first dispensing device is changed to a third status the change triggered by the confirmation information. At block a restock list is routed to the second dispensing device based at least in part on the second status designation At block a clean out directive for the assigned PSB is routed to the first dispensing device the clean out directive triggered by the third designation

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of designating status to dispensing devices is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof. In this embodiment the dispensing device is a cabinet.

At block a cabinet associated with a newly assigned patient location is identified e.g. via the rooms table of . At block the identified cabinet is identified as the active cabinet so it can provide full PSB functionality for the patient. At block the previously active cabinet is designated as interim so it can continue to provide PSB functionality either full functionality or perhaps limited to certain items or quantities until the patient physically moves to the new assigned location. Thus in certain embodiments the activities that may be performed from the interim cabinet may be limited due to the interim designation.

After the patient physically moves to a new assigned location at block information is received indicating that the patient has been physically moved. At block the designation of the interim cabinet is changed to inactive so that it is no longer available for PSB use for the patient. This designation may for example trigger the cleaning of the inactive cabinet.

II. Identifying Items for Restocking of a Dispensing Device For another set of embodiments various systems methods and devices are described for identifying items in a medication order that are to be reordered. The items from one or more medication orders may be compared to the items in common stock e.g. in ISBs at a dispensing device to identify items that are to be stored in PSBs for the patient. Of those items to be stored in the PSBs those that are at or below reorder levels may be identified for a restock list to be generated for a dispensing device or of B or .

A set of example embodiments will now be described with reference to . It is worth noting however that the functions described may be performed by the central server computer system of or the computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or or any combination thereof. A system includes a number of dispensing devices in communication with a central server computer system at a healthcare facility. Each dispensing device may be associated with one or more rooms or areas. A patient is assigned a room and thus a nursing unit cabinet may be associated with the room assigned to the patient e.g. via rooms table . In other embodiments a range of other types of dispensing devices or may be used.

In one embodiment the nursing unit cabinet includes one or more PSBs assigned for exclusive use to a patient of a plurality of patients and one or more ISBs each allocated for an item available to be used by the plurality of patients. An ISB is a bin which is assigned to an item independent of the item s relation to a patient e.g. it may be for use among two or more patients . The central server computer system may dynamically allocate the bins for patient or item specific use or the allocation may be static.

In one embodiment a medication order is generated or received by the central server computer system . The order may identify a medication or medications to be administered for or otherwise used by a patient based on current or future needs e.g. the medication order may be an active or future order . While the medication order may be generated internally by the central server computer system or a dispensing device computer it may alternatively be received from an external source e.g. an external source of patient information and medication orders . The medication order may be compared to a listing of medications stored in the one or more ISBs at the nursing cabinet e.g. the common stock to determine those items of the medication order to be stored in the one or more PSBs at the cabinet e.g. the items in the medication order not in common stock . There may be items that are not in common stock at the cabinet and yet which are not to be stored in PSBs e.g. excluded items . The items to be stored in PSBs may already be stocked for the patient or may be new items that were not previously stocked.

The central server computer system may identify a reorder level for one or more of the items to be stored in a PSB at the cabinet the reorder level triggering reorder of respective items. The central server computer system may then determine whether the one or more PSBs for the patient at the cabinet are at or below the identified reorder levels. A central server computer system may receive data from the cabinet or elsewhere identifying current levels of supply for the items of the medication order to be stocked in PSBs. Thus the central server computer system or the dispensing device computer may monitor the actual usage and actual quantity on hand in both PSBs and ISBs to provide updated information. In one embodiment the data is used in the determination of whether the PSBs for the patient at the device are at or below the identified reorder levels. It is worth noting that a particular medication order may be associated with one or more medications. Thus a number of medication orders may be analyzed for a particular patient at a given time at a device or a single medication order may be analyzed including a number of medications.

The central server computer system may be further configured to identify for items determined to be at or below the identified reorder levels a reorder amount for the patient at the dispensing device. The central server computer system may identify a target level at which to bring the items for the patient in restocking the dispensing device. Thus the central server computer system may identify a reorder amount for the patient for each item by comparing the target level to a current level of supply.

Referring next to an example diagram illustrates a reorder level and a target level for an item to be stored for a patient at a PSB at a dispensing device e.g. the dispensing device of or cabinet of . The following functionality may for example be undertaken by the central server computer system . At specified times e.g. one or two times daily one or more medication orders may be analyzed to determined the use requirements of a patient for an item to be stocked in a PSB at a dispensing device.

Based for example on consumption rates and a minimum supply amount e.g. measured in time a reorder level may be identified. The reorder level may be the supply level triggering reorder. A current level of supply of the item at the PSB may also be identified. If the current quantity of the item in the PSB is at a lower level than the reorder level when the medication order is processed a reorder for the item is triggered. Based for example on consumption rates and a desired re supply amount e.g. measured in time a target level may be identified. The target level may be the supply level to which to bring the quantity upon restock. The reorder quantity may be the difference between the current level of supply and the target level . If the quantity of the items in the bin s is at a higher level than the reorder level when the medication order is processed no reorder is triggered. If the medication order changes and the current supply of items is at a higher level than the target level the dispensing device may or may not be directed to have the items removed e.g. during cleaning or at other times depending on the amount of overage and estimated remaining use of the items by the patient e.g. as set forth in a current or future medication order . Those skilled in the art will recognize the many implementation options for such a system.

The medication order or other consumption information e.g. based on an estimate using past use rates for the patient or like patients may be used to determine a rate of use by the patient for each item and the rate of use may be used to identify the reorder level and or the target level. A central server computer system may for example identify a reorder days supply and a target days supply for the one or more items at the dispensing device . The target days supply may be used in conjunction with the consumption information to identify the target level. Similarly the reorder days supply may be used in conjunction with the consumption information to identify the reorder level. Additionally the reorder level or target level may be modified if the rate of use changes as a modified rate of use would change the number of days supply for a given level of supply .

Table 1 illustrates an example of reorder and target levels based on a days supply calculation. Table 1 is a table for Drug A with a medication order indicating that Drug A is to be administered three times per day at 9 00 a.m. 1 00 p.m. and 8 00 p.m. for ten days. The reorder time is at 8 00 a.m. The reorder level is one days supply and the target level is four days supply. For the above medication order setting forth administration three times per day the reorder level is three items 1 day 3 items and the target level is twelve items 4 days 3 items . The system may be able to identify current levels in analyzing reorder quantities and thus may identify when an administration was skipped e.g. day 3 .

Table 1 therefore illustrates an example of an embodiment in which the reorder levels and target levels may be measured in terms of days of use. The actual reorder levels and target levels may vary depending on the rate of use and amount of the medication order remaining to be taken. For example if the medication order changed the reorder level and target level may change as a function thereof.

The reorder process described herein may include both active and future medication orders. Table 2 illustrates an example of a series of active and future medication orders for Drug B. It also illustrates how amounts attributable to a days supply either target or reorder may vary over time. Drug B is to be administered in decreasing amounts 1 time per day at 9 00 a.m. for 6 days.

To determine the target level on Oct. 1 2007 medication orders 1 2 and 3 would be considered. To determine the target level on Oct. 2 2007 medication orders 2 3 and 4 would be considered. To determine the target level on Oct. 5 2007 medication orders 5 and 6 would be considered. Table 2 therefore also illustrates how varied use rates and ending dates may impact days supply calculations.

In one embodiment a reorder quantity may be updated before an identified reorder quantity is delivered to a dispensing device. For this example refer to and consider an instance when a first medication order is processed by the central server computer system . A reorder quantity to bring the supply up to the target level is identified and transmitted e.g. to a central dispensing unit of . Assume for purposes of this example that the items have been dispensed and labeled but not delivered to the cabinet e.g. they are still located at the central dispensing unit .

A second medication order may then be received before the cabinet is restocked. In certain circumstances the reorder quantities may be changed before restock by the processing of the second medication order. In one embodiment if the current supply at the cabinet plus the reorder quantity from the first medication order is below the reorder level the modified reorder quantity will be identified and transmitted. However if the current supply at the cabinet plus the reorder quantity from the first medication order is above the reorder level and below the target level the reorder quantity will not be changed. If the current supply at the cabinet plus the reorder quantity from the first medication order is above the target level the reorder quantity will be changed and transmitted only if the items to be stocked would not be used by the patient. A number of other reorder scenarios are possible as well. For example a medication order may be discontinued or the patient discharged after the initial order list has been gathered at a central dispensing unit but before the cabinets are restocked. In this scenario the restock update may direct a user to remove items for discontinued medication orders and discharged patients from the restock list before proceeding to the cabinets.

Turning to a restock list generated by and received from an external system there may be certain additional steps in processing such a list. When lists are received from external sources items and patients may be validated to check whether any subset of the patients or items on the list cannot be handled. Once an external list is so filtered any of the steps described above may be performed to generate a restocking list of items and quantities to restock.

Referring next to a flow diagram illustrates an embodiment of a method of identifying items of a medication order to be reordered for a patient. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or .

At block a medication order is received for the patient. At block the medication order is compared to a list of medications stored in ISBs at a dispensing device to determine a subset of items of the medication order to be stored in the PSBs for the patient at the device. At block a reorder level triggering reorder of respective items is automatically identified. At block a determination is made for the items as to whether the one or more PSBs for the patient at the device are at or below the identified reorder levels.

Referring next to another embodiment is shown of a method of identifying items of a medication order to be reordered for a patient. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a medication order is received for the patient e.g. by a receiving unit of the central server computer system configured to receive data . At block the medication order is compared to a list of medications stored in ISBs at a dispensing device to determine a subset of items of the medication order to be stored in the PSBs for the patient at the device. At block a reorder level triggering reorder of respective items is automatically identified. At block a determination is made for the items as to whether the one or more PSBs for the patient at the device are at or below the identified reorder levels. At block for items determined to be at or below the identified reorder levels a reorder amount is determined for the patient at the dispensing device.

At block data specifying the reorder amount may be transmitted e.g. by a transmitting unit of the central server computer system . For example the data specifying the reorder amount may be transmitted to a pharmacy to generate a restocking list or be transmitted in the form of a restocking list.

Referring next to an embodiment of a method of generating a restocking list for one or more cabinets is described. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or the central dispensing unit . In this embodiment the dispensing device is a cabinet.

At block a request is received to generate a restock list for one or more cabinets. At block patients associated with each cabinet are identified e.g. using rooms table . At block medications are identified which are required for each patient but not stocked in ISBs in the cabinet associated with the patient. At block a target level for each item is determined based on the schedule and dosage of the medication order and a target days supply. At block an amount of the items for each patient is determined based on current quantity in the PSB for the patient and the target level.

Referring next to an embodiment of a method of determining reorder amounts is described. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a medication order is received for the patient. At block a dispensing device associated with the patient is identified e.g. based on an association between a room and the dispensing device . At block the received medication order is compared to a list of medications stored in ISBs at the dispensing device to determine those items of the medication order that are to be stored in the PSBs for the patient at the device.

At block the reorder levels triggering reorder of respective items is automatically identified. At block current levels of supply are identified for the respective items at the patient s PSB at the dispensing device e.g. via transmissions from the device . At block the current levels are compared to the reorder levels to determine whether each of the respective items is to be reordered

At block a target level is identified the target level indicating the level to which to bring the supply of each respective item for the patient in restocking the device. At block the current level is compared to the target level to identify the respective reorder amounts. At block data is transmitted specifying the reorder amounts. At block an updated medication order is received e.g. before the restocking has actually occurred the order modifying reorder and target levels. At block data is transmitted specifying changed reorder amounts for only a subset of the medications with modified target levels.

III. Patient Specific Bin Assignment Various methods for assigning a PSB in a dispensing device to a patient are described. In one embodiment a room or area to be occupied by a patient is associated with a dispensing device e.g. via the rooms table . One or more available PSBs in the dispensing device are automatically identified when one or more medications are to be stored for the patient. An available PSB in the dispensing device is then be assigned to the patient.

A set of example embodiments will now be described with reference to . It is worth noting however that the functions described may be performed by the central server computer system of or the computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or or any combination thereof. The system includes a number of dispensing devices in communication with a central server computer system at a healthcare facility. Each dispensing device may be associated with one or more rooms or areas and a patient among a number of patients at the healthcare facility is assigned to one of the rooms. A particular nursing unit cabinet is associated with the room assigned to the patient e.g. via rooms table . In other embodiments a range of other types of dispensing devices may be used configured to dispense medications to areas or other groups of rooms in a healthcare facility.

In one embodiment the nursing unit cabinet associated with the patient includes one or more PSBs assigned for exclusive use to a patient and one or more ISBs each allocated for an item available to be used by the plurality of patients. An ISB is a bin which may be assigned to an item independent of the item s relation to a patient e.g. it may be for use among two or more patients . The central server computer system may dynamically re allocate the bins for patient or item specific use or the allocation may be static.

The central server computer system may automatically identify one or more available PSBs from the bins within the cabinet . To do so the central server computer system may receive data from the cabinet or elsewhere identifying whether particular PSBs are currently assigned. Thus the central server computer system or the cabinet computer may monitor the assignments and usage. The central server computer system may assign one or more of the available PSBs to the patient.

In one embodiment the assignment of the PSB to the patient is based on a selection from a number of available PSBs by a user through a graphical or other interface at the cabinet . The central server computer system may transmit a selectable user interface configured to display the identified PSBs and receive a selection via the selectable user interface e.g. transmitted from the cabinet . In an alternative embodiment an assignment of an available PSB to the patient is made automatically and transmitted to the cabinet or user.

Once assigned the central server computer system may be configured to receive information e.g. transmitted from a cabinet indicating that an assigned PSB has insufficient available capacity for the medications to be stored. The system may be configured to automatically identify one or more additional available bins to provide sufficient storage capacity for the identified medications.

In one embodiment a central server computer system may determine that the cabinet associated with the room does not currently include one or more available bins allocated as PSBs. In this instance the system may allocate one or more available bins e.g. as PSBs based on the determination . Thus the central server computer system may assign a PSB from this allocation of bins as well.

The central server computer system may receive a listing of medications to be stored for the patient in one or more PSBs perhaps from a medication order or a restock list . Such a listing may be based on current or future orders. To identify medications of the listing that are to be stored in PSBs a comparison may be made to a listing of the medications at the cabinet stored in ISBs e.g. as common stock . The central server computer system may transmit data identifying medications of the listing to be stored in one or more PSBs.

The central server computer system may determine storage requirements associated with the received listing of items. Storage requirements may include for example control level restrictions user level control access requirements other physical or technical security requirements storage type requirements e.g. refrigeration the physical configuration etc. storage restrictions e.g. respiratory or other item group restrictions and storage capacity requirements. The automatic identification of available PSBs may be based on the determined storage requirements e.g. matching the characteristics of the available PSBs to the storage requirements of the received listing . Thus in certain embodiments only those available PSBs meeting certain storage requirements are identified as available.

The central server computer system may also determine whether identified PSBs are eligible to store the particular medications to be stored for the patient and conversely determine whether the patient is eligible for assignment to the identified available bin. This eligibility may be based on status issues for the patient e.g. the assignment limitations associated with active interim or inactive status . Thus in certain embodiments only those available PSBs meeting certain eligibility criteria are identified as available for a patient.

In another embodiment the central server computer system may determine that the PSBs assigned to the patient in the cabinet have insufficient available capacity for identified medications. The system may also determine that the cabinet associated with the room does not currently include an available bin allocated as a PSB and configured with sufficient capacity to store the identified medications. Because of such issues one or more available bins in the cabinet may be re allocated as PSBs. This re allocation may be based on a determination of sufficient storage capacity at the bin to be re allocated. In other embodiments bins may be automatically re allocated from ISBs to PSBs or vice versa based on current or future projections for patient specific storage at the cabinet or wider group of dispensing devices .

When a user is ready to stock a cabinet the user may log in or otherwise register at the cabinet . Alternatively a user may initiate an action e.g. a restock or a first use of a multi use item which requires an identification of a PSB. The central server computer system may then automatically identify an already assigned PSB for storage of medications for the patient transmitting the identification to the cabinet. Similarly a computer at the cabinet may be configured to automatically direct the user as well.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of assigning a bin to a patient is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or .

At block identification of a room to be occupied by a patient is received. At block a dispensing device associated with the room is identified. At block one or more available PSBs in the dispensing device are automatically identified. At block the patient is assigned to a selected one of the available PSBs.

Referring next to another embodiment of a method of assigning a bin is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a dispensing device associated with a room of a patient is identified the dispensing device including PSBs and ISBs. At block a listing of medications to be stocked for the patient in one or more PSBs is received. At block control security storage type and storage capacity requirements for each listed medication are identified. At block PSBs able to accommodate the requirements are automatically identified. In some embodiments only PSBs associated with a given item group may store items from that item group. At block each listed medication is associated with one or more of the automatically identified PSBs assigned to the patient.

Turning to an alternative embodiment of a method of assigning a PSB is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block identification of a room to be occupied by a patient is received. At block a dispensing device associated with the room is identified the dispensing device including PSBs and ISBs. At block a listing of medications to be stocked for the patient in one or more PSBs is received. At block a determination is made as to whether PSBs currently assigned to the patient are eligible to store one or more items of the listing and also are configured with sufficient storage capacity. If so the process jumps to block to generate an interface with a prioritized listing of one or more PSBs assigned to a patient which are both eligible and configured with sufficient capacity.

If the PSBs currently assigned to the patient are insufficient a determination is made at block as to whether there are available PSBs both eligible to store the listed items and configured with sufficient capacity. If no such bins are available the process continues at block where one or more available ISBs eligible to store listed medications and configured with sufficient storage capacity are re allocated as PSBs or in another embodiment empty PSBs assigned to other patients may be identified and converted to available PSBs . From either block or block the process continues at block wherein one or more of the available PSBs are identified as eligible to store listed medications and configured with sufficient storage capacity. At block at least one of the PSBs identified at block is automatically assigned to the patient. From block the process advances to block to generate an interface with prioritized listing of one or more eligible PSBs assigned to the patient configured with sufficient capacity.

From block regardless of the manner in which it was reached the method proceeds to block where a selection of item assignments to PSBs is received via the interface. At block items are assigned to selected PSBs. In other embodiments the selection and assignment of items to PSBs may be automatic.

Referring next to an embodiment of a method of assigning a PSB is illustrated. As above the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block an identification of a room to be occupied by a patient is received. At block a dispensing device associated with a room of the patient is identified the dispensing device including PSBs and ISBs. At block a listing of medications to be stocked for the patient in one or more PSBs is received.

At block a determination is made whether PSBs are available at the dispensing device. If so at block a determination is made whether PSBs are configured with sufficient capacity. If so at block PSBs are identified the identification prioritizing a configuration better suited to store the items of the listing of medications.

If no PSBs e.g. either assigned or unassigned are available or if those available are configured with insufficient capacity available ISBs are identified at the dispensing device at block . At block those available ISBs with sufficient storage capacity are identified. At block one or more identified available ISBs are allocated for use as PSBs. From block one of the newly allocated PSBs is identified at block the identification prioritizing a configuration better suited to listing of medications.

From block regardless of the manner in which it was reached the PSB is assigned to the patient at block . At block the assignment information is transmitted to the PSB. At block bins at the dispensing device are automatically re allocated based on future projections e.g. projections based on estimated future use .

IV. Management of Patient Transfers There are various systems methods and device configurations for managing the location of medications associated with the transfer of a patient to a new location. The functions described related to managing such a transfer may be performed by the central server computer system of or the computer of dispensing device or of or or a combination thereof. The steps may be performed by the computer of the dispensing device or associated with the originating or terminating location.

In one embodiment the process is initiated when information is received indicating that the patient is to be transferred from a current room served by a first cabinet to a new room served by a second cabinet. An identification is made of medications assigned to the patient that are stored at the first cabinet and are to be transferred. The bin configuration for such medications at the first cabinet is identified and stored. The stored bin configuration data may then be applied to the second cabinet for bin assignment purposes the second cabinet inheriting one or more PSB attributes from the first cabinet and thereby leveraging the tuning performed at the first cabinet.

In one embodiment the process is triggered when information is received e.g. at the central server computer system that a patient is to be transferred to a new room or area served by a different dispensing device . This may be a patient transfer that has occurred in the past will occur in the future or is currently in process e.g. when a patient is en route . Particular components may but need not possess real time data regarding the physical location of the patient. By way of example a central server computer system may receive a set of data which is generated as notice of a transfer e.g. automatically created by user action at a dispensing device and transmitted to the central server computer system .

The central server computer system may identify medications stored in the one or more PSBs assigned to the patient at the originating dispensing device and store a set of data identifying the bin configuration. To perform this identification the central server computer system may automatically identify e.g. in response to a transfer notification medications to be transferred from the first originating device to the destination dispensing device for the patient. The bin configuration data may be limited to bins storing medications to be transferred. The central server computer system may also automatically identify discontinued medications for the patient which may be removed and returned. The bins containing only discontinued items may be excluded from the stored bin configuration data.

This bin configuration data may include characteristics of each PSB storing the identified items bin type bin size bin location security etc. . It may include a list of the items stored in respective PSBs characteristics of each item stored amount control level security requirements refrigeration requirement storage needs etc. and any other capacity utilization data e.g. proportion of capacity used . The bin configuration data may be collected by accessing or otherwise auditing information on the patient or dispensing device in data store or a central dispensing unit e.g. accessing an active or future medication order . As addressed above identification and bin configuration may be initiated by the receipt of the transfer notification or may otherwise occur before or after receipt of the transfer notice. In one embodiment the change of status of a bin e.g. from active to interim may trigger the identification of medications and the storage of bin configuration data before or after actual patient transfer.

The bin configuration may then be applied to the dispensing device associated with transfer location so that tuning performed at the originating location may be transferred. For example the central server computer system may be configured to apply the stored set of bin configuration data by automatically identifying a bin configuration for the second dispensing device based on the configuration of certain PSBs assigned to the patient at the originating dispensing device. All or only part of the bin configuration data may be used in assigning bins at the dispensing device at the transfer location. For example items in different PSBs at the originating device may be combined into a single bin at the transfer location while items with different control levels may be placed in separate bins. Thus the original PSB configuration may be leveraged to varying degrees as it may be identical have only certain parts mirrored or only have aspects used in a more limited manner.

There are a number of factors in determining how bin configuration data is applied to the destination dispensing device . The destination device may have a different configuration so in some instances only certain aspects of the original bin configuration may be transferable. The destination device may already be storing medications in locations that prevent or inhibit identical configurations from being used. In some instances bins may be re allocated e.g. from ISBs or other bin types to PSBs to allow aspects of the originating bin configuration to be applied to the destination device or for other purposes.

In one embodiment the proportion of capacity used for certain bins or sets of bins at the originating device may be determined. The application of the bin configuration data to the destination device may be limited to only those bins or sets of bins using greater than a certain proportion of capacity e.g. only apply bins over 50 full and consolidate remaining medications . Thus there may be rules providing that only bins filled over a threshold proportion of capacity are applied to the second dispensing device. The preceding embodiments only represent examples of the different extent to which tuning may be leveraged.

The listing of medications to be transferred and the configuration data may be transmitted e.g. by the central server computer system to the destination dispensing device . The transmitted configuration data may identify specific bins for storage of each of the items from the listing of medications. The destination device may be a PSB which inherits certain attributes of the originating dispensing device or may be a non PSB cabinet which uses the information in another manner e.g. to identify storage needs .

It is also worth noting that bin configuration data may be applied to other devices in addition to the destination device . For example consider an example in which medications are identified which are to be stored in a different dispensing device. If all or part of these medications are similar to the medications stored in the originating device e.g. have greater than a threshold correlation with medications stored for the patient in that device the stored bin configuration data from the originating device may be applied to the different dispensing device. In this way tuning performed on certain medications may be leveraged beyond the destination device .

Turning to an example of a system is illustrated for managing medications during a patient transfer between rooms served by different dispensing devices. The illustrated system includes two dispensing devices dispensing device a and dispensing device b . Each device may for example be a dispensing device or of B or and thus may be a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies for a patient at a healthcare facility . For purposes of example assume that the items to be transferred are medications.

The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with each dispensing device . The central server computer system may be the central server computer system of or . The system also includes a pharmacy dispensing unit which may be the central dispensing unit of B or . The pharmacy dispensing unit is also communicatively connected to the central server computer system . The system may include any other number of connected dispensing devices not shown and thus the illustrated embodiment is for purposes of example only. Moreover the following illustrates functionality for purposes of example only and many other scenarios are possible.

Dispensing device a may be associated with location a . This association may indicate that dispensing device a is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which includes location a . Assume that in this example a patient at the healthcare facility is initially located in a room within location a and the central server computer system may reflect this association. However in other embodiments location a may be a past or future location for the patient or be another type of room or location e.g. an operating room an emergency room a transitory location between two rooms etc. .

A medication order may be generated for the patient and routed to the pharmacy dispensing unit . The medications specified in the order may then be placed in a cart at the pharmacy dispensing unit for delivery to dispensing device a . Medication is then stocked and or restocked for the patient in one or more PSBs at dispensing device a 

The patient is then scheduled to be transferred from location a to location b . Either before during or after the physical transfer of the patient and or the transfer of certain medications bin configuration data is stored for PSBs of the patient at dispensing device a . The bin configuration information may be limited to PSBs holding medications to be transferred and perhaps meeting other criteria as noted above . At least some medications stored in PSBs at dispensing device a are transferred to a new dispensing device associated with the new location more specifically dispensing device b associated with the transfer room at location b .

The bin configuration data from dispensing device a may then be applied to differing degrees in assigning PSBs to hold the transferred medications at dispensing device b . The tuning performed at dispensing device a may be analyzed to determine which aspects should be applied at dispensing device b . As discussed above bin configuration may be mirrored or have only certain aspects applied.

An example of the bin configuration data that may be stored and analyzed is illustrated in . In this embodiment the bin configuration data is stored as a table . The bin configuration data may be stored by and or transmitted to or from the central server computer system of or or the computer of dispensing device or of B or .

The bin configuration data includes information regarding bin type bin storage space bin security and bin location in cabinet . Other embodiments may include more or fewer bin characteristics. The bin configuration data may also include the types of medications stored the amount and the security requirements . In other embodiments more or fewer medication characteristics may be included. Capacity utilization information may also be included for each or for a set of bins.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of managing a patient transfer is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof. Also it is worth noting that in this and in other embodiments various steps may be excluded and the order may be rearranged.

At block transfer data is received indicating that a patient is to be transferred from an originating location associated with a first dispensing device to a transfer location associated with a second dispensing device. At block bin configuration data is stored identifying a configuration of PSBs assigned to the patient at the first dispensing device. At block the stored bin configuration data from the first dispensing device is applied to the second dispensing device.

Referring next to an example of a method of assigning PSBs at a dispensing device associated with the transfer destination for a patient is shown. In this embodiment the dispensing device is a cabinet. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a patient with assigned PSBs is physically moved to a new location prior to notification of new patient location. The assigned PSBs may be at the cabinet associated with the patient s previous location and thus that cabinet may remain as the currently active cabinet even after the patient has physically been moved. At block the bin configuration at the cabinet associated with the patient s previous location may be received e.g. by the central server computer system from the currently active cabinet . This bin configuration information may include the list of items to be transferred.

At block information is received that the patient has physically moved to a new location. The new location may be identified with the received information. At block PSBs for a new cabinet associated with the new location are automatically assigned based at least in part on the received bin configuration and available bins at the new cabinet. In this manner the received bin configuration information may be applied to the new cabinet. At block the PSB assignments are transmitted to the new cabinet.

Referring next to an example of an alternative method of assigning PSBs at a dispensing device associated with the transfer destination for a patient is shown. In this embodiment the dispensing device is again a cabinet. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block information is received that a patient with PSBs has been assigned to a new location before a physical move to a new location. The assigned PSBs may be at the cabinet associated with the patient s current but temporary location. This may be any form of notification of a transfer. The cabinet associated with the new location may thereby become the active cabinet despite the fact that the patient has yet to depart from his current location.

At block the previously active cabinet e.g. associated with the location where patient and his or her PSBs are located is designated as the interim cabinet to allow continued functionality until the patient is physically moved. At block information is received that the patient has physically moved to the new location triggering removal of items from the interim cabinet. Upon removal inactive items may be identified perhaps by the central server computer system and returned e.g. to a pharmacy or return bin . The list of items to be transferred may be maintained by the central server computer system or received from the interim cabinet which may then become inactive .

At block the bin configuration information including the list of items being transferred is transmitted to the newly active cabinet e.g. by the central server computer system . This active cabinet computer may assign PSBs to the patient and direct placement of the items automatically based on the originating bin configuration. In this manner the bin configuration information may be applied to the new cabinet by the computer at the active cabinet. At block the new PSB assignments and item locations are received e.g. by the central server computer from the active cabinet.

Referring next to an example of an alternative method of applying bin configuration data to a dispensing device associated with the transfer destination for a patient is shown. In this embodiment the dispensing device is again a cabinet. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block transfer data is received indicating that a patient is to be transferred in the past or in the future from an originating location associated with a first dispensing device to a transfer location associated with a second dispensing device. At block discontinued medications for the patient to be removed from the first dispensing device are identified. This may be done by comparing the active medication order to the listing of medications stored in the PSBs to identify medications that are discontinued. At block medications for the patient to be transferred from the first dispensing device to the second dispensing device are identified the medications to be transferred exclusive of the discontinued medications.

At block bin configuration data is compiled identifying the configuration of the PSBs of the patient at the first dispensing device storing the medications to be transferred the configuration data including type size location and security parameters. This compilation may be performed by auditing a record e.g. the bins table and or items table of medications to be transferred and the PSBs storing such medications. At block the proportion of capacity used for each of the patient s PSBs at the first dispensing device is determined by correlating the configuration data with physical characteristics of the identified medications or container thereof to be transferred. The capacity utilization may be determined by analyzing the bin size in light of the physical dimensions of the medicine s and or container s stored therein.

At block those bins of the patient at the first dispensing device with capacity utilization over a threshold utilization level are identified e.g. useable space utilization above 70 . At block a first set of available PSBs at the second dispensing device is identified which matches bins over the threshold utilization level. However in this embodiment assume that there are not enough available PSBs of proper sizes characteristics to match all of the bins from the first dispensing device that are above the threshold utilization level.

Therefore at block other available bins e.g. available ISBs or PSBs currently assigned to a patient and not in use at the second dispensing device are identified that match any remaining unmatched bins over the threshold utilization level. At block the other identified available bins at the second dispensing device are re allocated as available PSBs. At block a second set of available PSBs at the second device is identified to store transferred medications from the bins at the first dispensing device under threshold utilization level. At block the stored bin configuration data from the first dispensing device is applied to the second dispensing device by assigning the first and second sets of identified PSBs and the bins re allocated as PSBs to the patient.

V. Removal or Return of Items Associated with a Patient Specific Bin In other embodiments functionality is described for the removal and return of medications that has been allocated or assigned to specific patients. Various procedures are set forth for the removal of items from PSBs. Also procedures are described for the return of items which are prepared and ready to be stocked or restocked in PSBs e.g. medications in a cart ready to be placed in a PSB . The removal and return of such medications may be referred to as a cleanup.

In certain embodiments items are removed or returned to a central dispensing unit e.g. a pharmacy because there is a discontinued or otherwise changed medication order or surplus medication in a PSB. The removal or return may also be initiated by a transfer or discharge. The cleanup functionality described herein may be performed by the central server computer system of or a dispensing device or computer of B or or a combination thereof.

There are a variety of actions that may trigger a cleanup. For example a cleanup may be triggered by an input request of a user to stock or restock a patient s PSBs at a dispensing device . The attempt by a user to transfer items to a new active dispensing device may also trigger cleanup at the originating or transfer location. A notification that a patient will be soon be discharged or an attempt to return a patient s own medicine to a patient upon discharge may trigger cleanup. A change to a medication order e.g. discontinuing a medication or changing a dose may do so as well. A cleanup may be triggered as part of a regularly scheduled cleanup. The central server computer system or dispensing device computer may be configured to have a variety of other actions trigger a cleanup as well.

By way of example a central server computer system may receive a set of data which is generated as notice of a triggering event for a patient e.g. automatically created by user action at a dispensing device and transmitted to the central server computer system . The central server computer system may identify medications stored in the one or more PSBs assigned to the patient or medications in possession of a user to be stocked or restocked therein and may also identify a medication order associated with the patient. These identifications may for example be made by accessing information on the patient or dispensing device in data store or a central dispensing unit . The identifications may be initiated by the receipt of the triggering data or may occur before receipt of the triggering data.

When a cleanup is triggered a determination may be made whether the patient is to be discharged. If so the medications and other supplies of the patient stored in the PSBs may be identified and their removal destinations specified e.g. return to pharmacy return to patient etc. . A determination may also be made whether the patient is to be transferred within the healthcare facility. If so items stored in the PSBs without an active medication order e.g. discontinued medications may be identified along with a removal destination. This identification may be performed by comparing the list of items stored in a PSB for the patient to a medication order. The remaining items to be transferred and the current bin configuration may be stored and or transmitted e.g. transmitted to the new dispensing device .

The central server computer system may determine that a patient is not to be transferred or discharged e.g. determining that the patient is remaining at the healthcare facility because no notice of discharge is currently associated with the patient . Absent discharge or transfer cleanup may be triggered during the stocking restocking or periodic cleaning of the PSB for a particular patient set of patients or cabinet generally. In any case the items in PSBs that have been discontinued and other surplus items may be identified along with a removal destination. Similarly items in a cart to be stocked or restocked at a dispensing device may be identified and rerouted because they have been discontinued or there is a surplus. These identifications of discontinued or surplus items may be performed by comparing the list of items stored in a PSB for the patient to a medication order.

Thus the central server computer system may automatically identify in response to the received set of triggering data a subset of the medications stored in PSBs that have been discontinued according to the medication order. Thus the discontinued medications already stored in the dispensing device or currently set to be stocked or restocked at the device may be identified. Similarly if an item is oversupplied e.g. because of a change in a medication order the amount of oversupply may be identified and a user may be directed to remove some of the items.

The central server computer system may also identify return locations for discontinued medications e.g. by accessing a set of rules stored in the data stores regarding appropriate return locations . The central server computer system may also transmit to a dispensing device associated with the patient data directing removal or return of the medications and identifying the return locations.

For each item removed and or returned the central server computer system may be configured to automatically track the item assembling the information and storing it in the data stores . The central server computer system may receive information that a particular item has arrived at a particular destination e.g. an identifier for the item may be read at the transfer return pharmacy or other location and transmitted to the central server computer system . Items removed during cleanup may be tracked in an ongoing manner or this information may be assembled periodically. Thus removed items which have not reached their destinations may be tracked in real time or periodically.

Turning to an example of a system is illustrated for removing and or returning medications stored or ready to be stored in a dispensing device which includes PSBs. The illustrated system includes two dispensing devices dispensing device a and dispensing device b . Each device may for example be a dispensing device of B or and thus may be a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies for a patient at a healthcare facility . For purposes of example assume that the items to be removed and or returned are medications.

The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with each dispensing device . The central server computer system may be the central server computer system of B or . The system also includes a pharmacy dispensing unit which may be the central dispensing unit of B or . The pharmacy dispensing unit is also communicatively connected to the central server computer system . The system may include any other number of connected dispensing devices not shown and thus the illustrated embodiment is for purposes of example only. Moreover the following illustrates functionality for purposes of example only and many other scenarios are possible.

Dispensing device a may be associated with location a . This association may indicate that dispensing device a is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which include location a . Assume that in this example a patient arrives at the healthcare facility and is physically moved into one of the rooms of location a and the central server computer system may reflect this association. However in other embodiments location a may be a past or future location for the patient or be another type of room or location e.g. an operating room emergency room a transitory location between two rooms etc. .

At some time after arrival of the patient at location a a patient s own medication may be stocked for the patient in a PSB at dispensing device a . A medication order or orders may be generated for the patient and routed to the pharmacy dispensing unit . The medication or medications specified in the order s may then be placed in a cart at the pharmacy dispensing unit for delivery to dispensing device a . A medication order then changes while the medications are en route discontinuing certain medications e.g. medication order may be discontinued or a subset of items therein may be discontinued . When a user attempts to stock the device the cleanup is triggered and the discontinued medications being delivered are instead identified for return e.g. return to the pharmacy dispensing unit .

While the patient remains at location a a new medication order is generated for the patient and routed to the pharmacy dispensing unit . As noted above the term medication order may be an order associated with one or more medications. Thus a number of medication orders may be generated for a particular patient at a given time at a device or a single medication order may be analyzed including a number of medications. Thus it may be assumed that a reference to a medication order may be an order associated with a number of medications or to a number of orders each associated with one or more medications. The new medication order adds certain new medications and discontinues others. New medications specified in the order as well as medications to be restocked may then be placed in a cart at the pharmacy dispensing unit for delivery to dispensing device a . When a user attempts to restock the device the cleanup is triggered again and the discontinued medications are identified for removal and return e.g. return to the central dispensing unit .

The patient is then scheduled to be transferred from location a to location b . Assume that a new medication order then discontinues certain medications. Either before or after the patient is physically transferred to a new room at location b the medications stored in PSBs at dispensing device a are to be transferred to a new dispensing device associated with the new location more specifically dispensing device b associated with the transfer room at location b . As a user attempts to physically remove the medications stored in PSBs at dispensing device a for transfer a cleanup is triggered. The discontinued medications may be identified for return to the pharmacy dispensing unit .

The medication order again changes while the transferred medications are en route discontinuing certain medications being transferred. When a user attempts to store the transferred medications at dispensing device b the cleanup is triggered and the discontinued medications are identified and returned e.g. returned to the central dispensing unit . The remaining transferred medications are then stored in dispensing device b 

After the transferred medications are stored assume that a regularly scheduled restock is to occur for the patient at dispensing device b . Medications to be restocked may then be placed in a cart at the pharmacy dispensing unit for delivery to dispensing device a . However the medication order again changes while the medications are en route discontinuing certain medications that are currently set to be restocked. When a user attempts to restock dispensing device b the cleanup is triggered again and the discontinued medications currently being restocked are identified for return to the central dispensing unit . Also the remaining discontinued medications stored in dispensing device b are identified for removal and return to the central dispensing unit .

The patient is then scheduled for discharge and a notice of discharge is received at the central server computer system . Medications to be given to the patient upon discharge are identified e.g. a patient s own medication or other active medications . As the patient is discharged the patient is given these identified medications.

Referring to one embodiment of a method of identifying discontinued items from a PSB assigned to a patient is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or or the computer of dispensing device or of B or . Also it is worth noting that in this and in other embodiments various steps may be excluded and the order may be rearranged.

At block a set of triggering data is received including notice of a triggering event. At block medications stored in a PSB assigned to the patient are identified. At block a medication order associated with the patient is identified. At block in response to the set of triggering data those of the stored medications which have been discontinued according to the medication order are automatically identified.

Referring to one embodiment of a method of returning items to be stocked a PSB assigned to a patient is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a set of triggering data is received including notice of a triggering event. At block medications to be stocked or restocked for the patient in PSBs assigned to the patient are identified. At block a medication order associated with the patient is identified. At block in response to the set of triggering data those medications to be stocked or restocked which have then been discontinued according to the medication order are automatically identified.

Referring to one embodiment of a method of managing cleanup of a dispensing device with PSBs is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a set of data is received which triggers cleanup for the PSBs of a particular patient. At block a determination is made whether the patient is to be discharged. If so at block the patient s own medication e.g. medication brought to the healthcare facility by a patient and under an active or future medication order may be identified for return to the patient. At block the items remaining in the patent specific bins and perhaps other items that were to be stocked or restocked in the PSBs are identified as well as their destinations.

If the patient is not to be discharged a determination is made at block regarding whether the patient is scheduled to be or has been transferred from the room or area associated with the dispensing device. If so at block discontinued medications e.g. medications located in PSBs or medications to be stocked or restocked in the PSBs are identified along with their removal destination. At block the remaining items and their current bin configuration may be identified and stored. At block the transfer of the remaining items is directed and perhaps transmitted to the dispensing device .

If the patient is not to be discharged or transferred a determination is made at block regarding whether any medication to be stored for the patient in the PSBs or to be stocked or restocked therein are discontinued. If so at block inactive items are identified along with their removal destination. At block any removed items are tracked in an ongoing or periodic manner.

Referring to an alternative method of managing cleanup of a dispensing device with PSBs is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a user may attempt to stock restock or remove items from a dispensing device transfer medications in or out of a dispensing device or discharge a patient. In one embodiment this action may cause a set of triggering data to be transmitted providing notice of the triggering event. At block the set of triggering data is received which initiates cleanup for the PSBs of the particular patient. At block a determination is made whether the patient is to be discharged. If so at block the medication e.g. POM or other medication stocked from the healthcare facility to be provided to the patient may be identified for return to the patient. At block the items remaining in the patent specific bins and perhaps other items that were to be stocked or restocked in the PSBs are identified as well as their destinations.

If the patient is not to be discharged a determination is made at block regarding whether the patient is scheduled to be or has been transferred from a room or area associated with the dispensing device. If so at block discontinued medications for the patient located in PSBs are identified along with their removal destination. At block the remaining active items and their current bin configuration may be identified and stored. At block the transfer of the remaining items is directed and perhaps transmitted to the dispensing device . A user may then attempt to stock the transferred medications to the new dispensing device associated with the new room or area. At block discontinued medications of the transferred medications are identified along with their destination for return. Thus if the medication order is modified in the process of transfer the discontinued or otherwise inactive or oversupplied items may be identified and returned e.g. to the pharmacy before they are stocked. At block the remaining transferred items may be stocked at the new dispensing device.

If the patient is not to be discharged or transferred a determination is made at block regarding whether any medication is to be stored for the patient in the PSBs or to be stocked or restocked therein are discontinued. If so at block discontinued items are identified along with their removal destination. At block any removed or returned items are tracked in an ongoing or periodic manner.

VI. Handling of POM In another set of embodiments various procedures are described for the handling of medications brought to a healthcare facility by a patient often referred to as a patient s own medication or POM . In one embodiment these are medications brought by a patient and authorized by the prescriber to be administered while hospitalized. These procedures may be performed by the central server computer system of or a computer of dispensing device or of B or or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment medications are brought into a healthcare facility by for or on behalf of a patient. These medications may be designated as POM by a user attempting to store them in a dispensing device or by other healthcare facility personnel when the medication is collected from the patient upon admittance. By way of example consider and note that a user at the dispensing device or a pharmacist at a central dispensing unit may input the designation when entering the medications into the system . A set of data including the designation and an identifier for the type of medication may be transmitted from the input device to the central server computer system . As set forth in more detail below novel storage and removal procedures may be used for POM designated medications at PSBs.

As described above a patient may be associated with a dispensing device perhaps based on the location of his or her room or on other factors. A dispensing device may include a number of bins allocated as PSBs and or ISBs. The POM designation along with an associated patient identifier PSB and amount and type information for the medication may be stored in the data stores by the central server computer system . Information may also be stored in the dispensing device computer. The central server computer system may monitor track and direct use of the medications stored in the dispensing devices . It is worth noting that some or all or such functions may be off loaded to a dispensing device computer.

When an item has a POM designation the central server computer system may be configured to exclude the item from the restocking process. For example in one embodiment an item with a POM designation is not be restocked until it is used up. In such a case a restock directive e.g. generated by the central server computer system would be implemented only when the supply is used up at which time the POM designation for the item would be removed. Thus restocking of an item may be suspended or otherwise prohibited until the quantity on hand information is equal to zero. Once the medication with the POM designation is used up the standard restocking may occur.

The system may therefore be configured to manage and hold items with a POM designation separately from medications and other supplies in PSBs. There may be functionality to prevent designated medications from being stored in the same PSBs as medication stocked from the healthcare facility. The bins for PSBs holding POM designated items may be distinguished from bins holding other items.

In another embodiment an item with a POM designation may instead be restocked when it falls below a threshold level. This threshold level may but need not be a different level than would be applied to a medication stocked from the healthcare facility. For example restocking rules may dictate that for a given medication with a POM designation a restock will occur when supply falls below 2 days while restock would otherwise occur for the given medication when supply falls below 3 days. While restocking rules may differ other rules for both the medication stocked from the healthcare facility and the designated medication may be the same. For example allergy rules contraindication rules storage security requirement rules and so on may be the same.

Thus in light of the above the same or similar types of medications may be stored for a patient in two different PSBs at the same time one with a POM designation and another without. The central server computer system or dispensing device computer may be configured to direct use all of the POM designated items before the same or similar restocked items are used e.g. suspending use of the restocked items until the POM designated items are used up .

When a patient with POM items is transferred the POM designation may be retained during and after the patient is transferred. In one embodiment notice may be received that a patient will transfer from a first location to a second location at the healthcare facility. In response to the notice a set of data may be transmitted e.g. from the central server computer system directing the move of the designated medication from a first dispensing device associated with the first location to a second dispensing device associated with the second location. The designation may be automatically retained during the move. Thus the POM designation may be transferred to the new dispensing device and a newly assigned PSB when there is a move. The POM designation may be maintained whether the medication transfer occurs before after or at overlapping times with the patient transfer.

When a patient is going to be discharged a central server computer system may receive a notice that the patient is to be discharged. This notice may be a set of data sent from a dispensing device or other connected device e.g. a device in communication with the central server computer system indicating that the patient will be discharged and perhaps specifying a time or range of times. When a patient is discharged the central server computer system may be configured to identify automatically any items with POM designations stored in PSBs for the patient so a user may return the POM item to the patient. In one embodiment the central server computer system may determine whether the designated medication s are under an active or future medication order and only direct the return of those medications that remain under such an order. Once the designated medications and associated PSBs have been identified for return to the patient or retention a set of data may be transmitted e.g. to the dispensing device computer directing the return or retention of the designated medication.

Turning to an example of a system is illustrated for designating a POM to be stored in a dispensing device which includes PSBs. The illustrated system includes two dispensing devices dispensing device a and dispensing device b . Each device may for example be a dispensing device or of B or and thus may be a cabinet with a number of bins for dispensing medical supplies e.g. pharmaceuticals other medications or other supplies for a patient at a healthcare facility . The bins may be allocated or assigned as PSBs or ISBs or have other designations. For purposes of this example assume that the items are medications.

The system also includes a central server computer system which is communicatively connected with each dispensing device . The central server computer system may be the central server computer system of or . The system may include any other number of connected dispensing devices not shown and thus the illustrated embodiment is for purposes of example only. Moreover the following illustrates functionality for purposes of example only and many other configurations are possible.

Dispensing device a may be associated with location a . This association may indicate that dispensing device a is a cabinet at a nursing station serving a set of rooms which includes location a . Assume that in this example a patient arrives at the healthcare facility is physically moved into one of the rooms of location a and the central server computer system may reflect this association.

At some time before or after arrival of the patient at location a POM may be stored for the patient in a PSB at dispensing device a . The PSB in which the POM is stored may be set apart from PSBs for the patient storing the medication stocked from the healthcare facility. There may be a policy to keep such medications stored in separate PSBs preventing POM and medication stocked from the healthcare facility from being stored in the same bin. A prescription for the patient may include the type of medication making up the POM and the POM may be administered at the healthcare facility. In one embodiment this type of medication for the patient is not restocked until the POM is used up in other embodiments the restocking levels for a POM may differ from restocking levels of the same medications stocked from the healthcare facility. The specific restocking levels may depend on the type of medication the rate of use the time required for restocking and other related factors.

The patient may then be scheduled to be transferred from location a to location b . Either before or after the patient is physically transferred to a new room at location b the POM stored in PSBs at dispensing device a is transferred to a new dispensing device associated with the new location more specifically dispensing device b associated with the transfer room at location b . The transferred POM may be transferred together with medication stocked from the healthcare facility. The designation for each POM may be retained during the transfer and or reapplied after the transfer.

When a user stores the transferred medications at dispensing device b the central server computer system may again direct that the POM be stored separately e.g. in separate bins from the medications stocked from the healthcare facility. The transferred medications are then stored in dispensing device b . Again restocking may occur for the transferred medications including POM but may differ depending on the restocking policies of the healthcare facility and the type of POM transferred.

The patient is then scheduled for discharge and a notice of discharge is received at the central server computer system . Medications to be given to the patient upon discharge are identified e.g. POM or other active medications and the POM may be identified for return based on the identification. A set of data identifying these medications may be transmitted to the dispensing device . Before the patient is discharged the patient is given these identified medications.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of designating medication as a patient s own medication is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or . Also it is worth noting that in this and other method embodiments various steps may be excluded and the order may be rearranged.

At block a set of data is received that identifies medication brought to a healthcare facility by a patient. At block the medication is designated as the patient s own medication. At block the designation for the medication is automatically retained when the medication is transferred between dispensing devices at the healthcare facility.

Referring to an example of a method of designating medication to be returned to a patient is shown. By way of example this method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a set of data is received that identifies medication brought to a healthcare facility by a patient. At block the medication is designated as POM. At block the medication is automatically identified as an item to be returned to the patient when the patient is discharged from the healthcare facility the identification based at least in part on the designation.

Referring to an example of a method of differentiating between certain medications in the assignment of PSBs is shown. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

As in other embodiments at block a set of data is received that identifies medication brought to a healthcare facility by a patient. At block the medication is designated as POM for the patient. At block the patient is associated with a dispensing device e.g. based on an association between a room and a dispensing device . The dispensing device includes a first set of one or more PSBs assigned for exclusive use of the patient for medication stocked from the healthcare facility. At block a second set of one or more PSBs at the dispensing device is assigned to the patient for storage of the POM designated medication the second set distinct from the first set. Thus there may be a rule to assign POM designated items to different PSBs than the standard items to be stocked from the healthcare facility. The rule may be automated or enforced by the user or healthcare facility.

Referring to an alternative embodiment of a method of designating medication as a patient s own medication is shown. As in other embodiments this method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a patient is associated with a first dispensing device. At block a set of data is received that identifies medication brought to a healthcare facility by a patient. At block the medication is designated as POM for the patient. At block a first set of one or more PSBs at the dispensing device is assigned to the patient for the POM designated medication. At block a second set of one or more PSBs is assigned for exclusive use of the patient for medication stocked from the healthcare facility.

At block different sets of restocking rules are applied to medication from the healthcare facility than to the POM designated medication. At block certain rules are applied to both medication stocked from the healthcare facility and the POM designated medication the same set of rules including allergy rules contraindication rules and storage security requirement rules.

At block a notice is received that the patient will transfer from a first location to a second location at the healthcare facility. At block data is transmitted in response to the notice directing the move of the POM designated medication from the first dispensing device to a second dispensing device associated with the second location. At block the POM designation for the medication is automatically retained during the move. At block the POM designated medication is identified as an item to be returned to the patient when the patient is discharged from the healthcare facility the identification based at least in part on the designation and a determination that the medication remains under an active order.

Referring to yet another alternative example of a method of designating medication as a patient s own medication is shown. As in other embodiments this method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a set of data is received that identifies first and second medications brought to a healthcare facility by a patient. At block the first and second medications are each designated as POM. At block a first set of one or more PSBs at a dispensing device is assigned to the patient for the POM designated medications. At block a second set of one or more PSBs is assigned to the patient for exclusive use for medication stocked from the healthcare facility. A rule prevents medication stocked from the healthcare facility from being stocked in bins assigned to the designated medication.

At block the first medication is prevented from being restocked until the item is used up. At block restocking of the first medication is initiated based on a determination that it is used up. At block the designation is removed from the restocked first medication.

Other restocking rules are applied for the second medication e.g. based on the type of medication regularity of use etc. . At block restock of the second medication is initiated when the second medication is not used up and different restocking rules e.g. waiting until the medication is more depleted before restocking are applied for the second medication than for medication stocked from healthcare facility. At block use e.g. user access or patient use of the second medication restocked from the healthcare facility is suspended until the POM designated stock is used up.

VII. Handling of Multi Use Items In another set of embodiments various procedures are described for the handling of multi use items. Multi use items are typically dispensers of medication configured for multiple administrations to the same patient and may include both the medication and a container configured to dispense the medication for the patient. Examples may include topical creams eye drops and inhalers.

In one embodiment an unused multi use item may be initially stored in an ISB available to a number of patients at a dispensing device. When notice is received of a first use by a patient of the previously unused multi use item return of the used multi use item is directed to a PSB for the patient in the dispensing device. Once used the multi use item is to be assigned for exclusive use of the patient and managed accordingly. In some embodiments a system differentiates a multi use item from a container or dispenser that includes multiple doses that are used or shared by multiple patients. The following procedures described for multi use items may be performed by the central server computer system of or a computer associated with dispensing device or of B or or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment a multi use item e.g. a dispenser of medication such as a tube of topical cream eye drops or an inhaler is identified. The dispenser of medication or a stored identifier for the dispenser e.g. in data stores is associated with a designation indicating that the item is a multi use item. The multi use item may be designated as such by a user attempting to store the item in a dispensing device e.g. by indicating the designation via an input on a dispensing device or computer or by other healthcare facility personnel when the medication is stored or received at the healthcare facility. By way of example consider and note that a user at the dispensing device or a pharmacist at a central dispensing unit may input the designation when entering the medications into the system .

A set of data including the designation and or an identifier for the type of medication may be processed and transmitted from an input device e.g. a dispensing device computer to the central server computer system and may be stored in data stores . Alternatively the item may be automatically recognized as a multi use item e.g. via a look up of the identifier for the item received at the central server computer system and the designation may be made automatically. Thus the unused multi use item may be identified and designated by information received from any number of sources.

As discussed above a central server computer system may be in communication with a number of dispensing devices . A patient may be associated with a dispensing device perhaps based on the location of his or her room or area among other factors. A dispensing device may include a number of bins allocated as PSBs and ISBs. The multi use designation along with an associated patient identifier PSB identifier and amount and type information for the medication may be stored in the data stores by the central server computer system . The central server computer system may monitor track and direct use of the medications stored in the dispensing devices . It is worth noting that some or all of such functions may be off loaded to a dispensing device computer.

When an unused item has a multi use designation the unused item may be stocked in an ISB and thus may be available for any of the patients associated with the dispensing device . For example an unused dispenser of eye drops may be stored in an ISB for use of any of the patients associated with the device. The central server computer system may receive data indicating that the unused item will be stored at the dispensing device and may identify the ISB for storage of the item. The central server computer system may transmit a first set of instruction data directing storage of the unused item in the identified ISB or the ISB may be identified by a dispensing device computer. Alternatively the multi use item may come directly or indirectly from the central dispensing unit and not be placed initially in an ISB.

Therefore a user may be directed to the ISB by the central server computer system or dispensing device computer in response to a request to obtain the medication. A user e.g. a nurse or the patient himself may use the previously unused multi use item stored in the ISB. Information about the use may be input to and processed by the dispensing device computer or other input device. A message may then be sent e.g. from the dispensing device computer indicating the initial use by the patient. A second set of instruction data may be generated and perhaps transmitted directing storage of the used multi use item in a PSB assigned to the patient at the dispensing device . Thus in response to a received use input or message the multi use item may be assigned to the first patient for exclusive use. The PSB where the item is to be stored may be identified after the message indicating the initial use is received and this identification may be received by a user at the dispensing device . PSBs for storage of the used multi use item may be distinct from single use medications stored from the healthcare facility and there may be logic preventing them from being stored together.

Thus a set of data may be received e.g. at the dispensing device or at the central server computer system from a user at the dispensing device that includes a request to obtain the medication for administration to the first patient. In response to the request the central server computer system or dispensing device computer may then automatically identify the location of the multi use item. For example data stores or other memory may be queried to determine whether the patient is associated with a used dispenser of the medication at the dispensing device e.g. in the case when a patient has already used the medication . If no used dispenser of the medication assigned to the patient is available e.g. it is used up the ISB storing the unused dispenser of medication may be automatically identified.

After a use of a multi use item and or in response to the request to obtain the medication a determination may be made as to whether the dispenser of medication stored in the PSB for the patient is used up. This determination may be performed with a query to the user and the resulting response to the query. When it is determined that additional medication remains in the dispenser for the patient the medication may be excluded from restocking at the PSB. When it is determined that no additional medication remains in the dispenser for the patient an ISB may be identified containing an additional unused dispenser of the medication.

For each used dispenser of medication designated a multi use item use of medication may be tracked. Thus use may be tracked for one or more patients for one or more designated multi use items and at one or more dispensing devices. In this way certain restocking thresholds may be set so that enough unused medication of each type will be stored in an ISB as it is needed. This tracking and advance restocking may be more suited to dispensing devices serving a larger number of rooms to medications used more regularly and or to medications of more critical importance to a given set of patients. These factors may each be used to control the threshold restock level.

Threshold restocking levels may be modified based on individual or group determinations. For example consider a patient who is using a multi use item that is deemed to be of critical importance for the well being of the patient but is used very rarely by other patients. The use of the item by the patient may be monitored and the item restocked in an ISB when the remaining amount falls below a threshold level e.g. 25 remaining that will assure additional stock is available when the item is depleted. Compare this with patients who are each using a multi use item that is used very regularly by other patients. The use of the item by each of the patients may be monitored and the items restocked in an ISB based on group threshold characteristics. For example assume that there are three patients who will be using an item up at different times. Instead of restocking three different times there may instead be a single restocking of three items perhaps with a different threshold .

The designation for multi use items may be retained for a dispenser of medication as a patient is transferred within a healthcare facility and may further be retained until the medication is used up. A set of data may also be received e.g. at a central server computer system or dispensing device computer indicating that the patient is to be discharged from the healthcare facility perhaps indicating a time or range of times for the discharge . A determination may be made as to whether the medication remains under an active or future medication order. Based on the determination a user e.g. a nurse or other discharge personnel may be directed to provide the used dispenser of medication to the patient upon discharge.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of managing the storage of multi use items is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system of or . Alternatively the method may for example be performed in whole or in part by a computer associated with a dispensing device or of B or . Also it is worth noting that in this and other method embodiments various steps may be excluded and the order may be rearranged.

At block an unused dispenser of medication is identified which is designated as a multi use medication and stored in an item specific bin available to a number of patients at a dispensing device. At block notice is received of a first use by a patient of the previously unused dispenser of medication. At block return of the used dispenser of medication is directed to a PSB in the dispensing device and the dispenser is assigned for exclusive use of the patient.

Referring to an example of a method of designating and storing multi use items is shown. By way of example this method may be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a set of data is received identifying an unused dispenser of medication for multiple administrations to a same patient. At block the dispenser of medication is associated with a designation indicating the dispenser of medication is a multi use item. At block a first set of instruction data is transmitted directing storage of the dispenser of medication in an ISB at a dispensing device. At block a set of use data is received indicating a use of the dispenser of medication by a patient. At block in response to the received set of use data a second set of instruction data is transmitted directing storage of the used dispenser of medication in a PSB assigned to the first patient at the dispensing device.

Referring to an example of a method of differentiating and managing multi use items is shown. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system the computer associated with a dispensing device or or any combination thereof.

At block a dispenser of medication is designated as a multi use item. This designation may be input by a user or made automatically based on a look up of characteristics of the item. At block information is received that the multi use item stored in an ISB is used for a patient. This use information may be explicit or inferred from data input by a user e.g. a nurse to a dispensing device. The multi use item is then associated with the patient at block .

At block the user e.g. a nurse who administered the previously unused multi use item to the patient is automatically directed to a PSB for storage of the multi use item the PSB assigned to the patient. For a subsequent request for that medication for that patient the user is directed to the PSB at block .

After a second use a determination may be made as to whether the medication is used up at block . If it is determined that the medication is not used up the process returns to block where the user is directed to return the item. Subsequent requests and returns for the medication will be directed to the PSB until a determination is made that the medication is used up. Once it is determined that the item is used up the user may be directed to discard the empty dispenser at block . Then a subsequent request for the medication for the patient may be automatically directed to an ISB storing an unused dispenser of the medication at block and the process may revert to block .

Referring next to an alternative embodiment of a method of managing medications with a multi use designation is shown. As in other embodiments this method may be performed by the central server computer system a dispensing device or computer or any combination thereof. It is worth emphasizing that the order of the steps may be changed and in certain embodiments steps may be dropped or added.

At block an unused dispenser of topical cream medication is identified e.g. during a stocking or restocking procedure . At block the dispenser is designated as a multi use item. The designation may be automatic or may be selected by a user e.g. via a user interface for the computer integrated with a cabinet . At block the storage of the dispenser is directed to an ISB at a cabinet e.g. the cabinet serving a number of rooms at a healthcare facility 

At block a request is received from a user e.g. a nurse to obtain topical cream medication for a patient associated with the cabinet. For example the received request may be in the form of an input by a user at the cabinet or in the form of a set of data indicative of the request received from the cabinet. At block the user is automatically directed to the ISB storing the unused dispenser.

At block notice is received that the previously unused dispenser of topical cream is used for the patient. This notice may be in the form of a set of data received from the device or may be an input from a user. The notice may be implicit or explicit. At block the used dispenser of topical cream is assigned for exclusive use of the patient. At block a PSB at the cabinet is assigned to the patient for storage of the dispenser the PSB exclusive of single use items assigned to patient. Items with multi use designations may be prevented from being stored in the same PSB as single use items. The user may be directed to the PSB for return of the used dispenser.

At block the multi use designation may be retained during a transfer of the dispenser between cabinets e.g. when there is a patient transfer . At block a request is received from a user at the cabinet to obtain topical cream medication for the patient. Again the received request may be in the form of an input received from a user at the cabinet or in the form of a set of data including the request received from the cabinet. At block the user is automatically directed to the PSB storing the used dispenser. This may be performed by sending a set of instructions to the cabinet e.g. sent from a central server computer system or may be performed by the cabinet itself.

At block a determination is made that the topical cream medication is not used up and storage is directed to the PSB. This determination and direction may be performed locally by the computer integrated with the cabinet or received from a remote source e.g. a central server computer system . At block when a restocking procedure occurs for the cabinet the topical cream medication is excluded from restocking at the PSB based on the multi use designation.

At block use of the dispenser of topical cream medication by the patient is tracked at the PSB. At block it is determined that the topical cream use exceeds a threshold e.g. medication is 75 used up medication is 90 used up less than one day s supply remains less than two days supply remains etc. . At block a restock of an unused dispenser of the topical cream medication is ordered at the ISB. This restock may be done in an attempt to ensure that there is an unused dispenser for the patient available in an ISB when his topical cream medication runs out.

However at block notice of discharge is received before the dispenser of topical cream is used up. This notice may be an input by a user or perhaps a set of data indicating that a user will be discharged at a time or range of times. A determination may be made whether the user remains under an active medication order. At block a user is directed to provide the used dispenser to the patient upon discharge.

In one embodiment the multi use item may be charged to the patient upon initial use only and not charged on a per application basis.

VIII. Bin Allocation Various systems methods and device configurations are described for managing the allocation between PSBs and other bins at a dispensing device. The functions described related to managing such an allocation may be performed by the central server computer system of or the computer of dispensing device or of or or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment a current bin allocation at a cabinet is identified. This may be performed by identifying those bins at a cabinet allocated as PSBs and ISBs. Occupancy rates associated with the PSBs are determined. These occupancy rates may reflect the current PSB occupancy rate at the cabinet but may also be based on past and future occupancy data adjusted to the current bin allocation. As these PSB occupancy rates increase the ability of a user to store medications in PSBs may be adversely affected. Certain occupancy rates may trigger a re allocation of bins at the device increasing the allocation of PSBs. Alternatively such occupancy rates may automatically trigger one or more messages to a user or cabinet advising re allocation. In other embodiments a message may be sent on a scheduled basis or be offered in response to a user inquiry.

The assessment and re allocation process described herein may occur for a particular dispensing device set of dispensing devices or across a healthcare facility. Thus although much of following discussion relates to allocation of PSBs and ISBs at a particular dispensing device a similar analysis and allocation may be made for a set of dispensing devices or facility wide. Also while the re allocation process may be described herein as an automatic bin re allocation in other embodiments the steps of automated re allocation may be replaced with an automated transmission of a message advising or directing the re allocation. Therefore there may be different levels of automation in the process automated re allocation automated re allocation advisory messages or automated messages in response to user inquiries.

At a particular dispensing device e.g. dispensing device of or B assume that there is an existing allocation of ISBs and PSBs. Information regarding a current bin allocation at a device may be collected and stored by the central server computer system the dispensing device or any combination thereof. For example a central server computer system may identify bins allocated as PSBs and ISBs by querying the dispensing device or by accessing data on such allocations stored in data stores . This data may reflect the current bin allocation on a real time or delayed basis. The current bin allocation data may also reflect a type designation of each of the bins at a device e.g. according to size storage capacity control levels protected bins refrigeration capabilities POM or multi use designations security levels etc .

The dispensing device and its bins e.g. PSBs and ISBs may be monitored or queried to determine the current occupancy rate e.g. via remote monitoring by a central server computer system . The dispensing device may also transmit data to the central server computer system indicating occupancy changes at the device e.g. when a user stocks or removes an item . Occupancy data may but need not be categorized for various bin types at the dispensing device . In one embodiment the occupancy rate is calculated by analyzing the percentage of bins storing one or more items.

Bins may be re allocated as PSBs or ISBs or messages may be transmitted advising such re allocations based on current occupancy rates. For example current PSB occupancy rates over a threshold e.g. 80 or 90 may trigger this re allocation or messaging. The re allocation or re allocation directives may be performed or advised specifically for each type of PSB and the triggering threshold may be different for different types of bins. Typically ISBs of a given type will be re allocated as PSBs of the same type and vice versa. However in another embodiment type designations at bins available for re allocation e.g. because of under utilization are modified based on the current higher occupancy rates for bins of different designation types. For example high security bins may be re allocated as lower security bins and may have security features temporarily disabled.

An analysis may also be performed to estimate a turn away rate for a given current occupancy rate. In one embodiment a turn away rate is the rate at which users will be unable to store medications in PSBs at the dispensing device. Current occupancy rate data may be analyzed in light of past turn away data to estimate an impact of the occupancy rate. The turn away data may be collected for each type of PSB or may be collected generally across all PSBs. The turn away data may be used to set the threshold levels triggering messaging or re allocation. The timing and selection of bins for re allocation may therefore be based at least in part on the turn away rate.

In addition to real time monitoring bin occupancy may be monitored over time e.g. by the central server computer system to evaluate past occupancy rates for PSBs and ISBs at a dispensing device . This past occupancy rate data may then be stored in data stores and or the dispensing device . The past occupancy rate data may be used to compute average occupancy rates at PSBs. This average occupancy rate data may reflect occupancy rates for different bin types. Also average past occupancy rates may be calculated over one or more previous time periods and may illustrate a seasonally adjusted average an average at certain times of the day or week a cabinet specific average a facility wide average or an otherwise calculated average occupancy rate.

The past occupancy rates may be analyzed to determine a variance in occupancy rates for the PSBs. This variance may be a variance in the average occupancy rate a day to day variance seasonal variance a variance within periods or other measures of variance. The average past occupancy rates and the variance measures may be used separately or in combination to determine when and how bins are to be re allocated at a dispensing device.

This past occupancy rate data may also include data indicating the rate of turn aways e.g. according to bin type or for a cabinet as a whole associated with different occupancy rates. It may also assess the effect of the turn aways e.g. issues related to being redirected to another cabinet time delays in reallocating bins at the dispensing device etc. . This range of past occupancy rate data may be structured to allow queries regarding the past allocations of PSBs and ISBs at the dispensing device .

In one embodiment PSBs or ISBs may be re allocated or the re allocation advised based on the past occupancy rate data. For example the current bin allocation may be evaluated in light of past occupancy rates. This may be achieved by correlating the current bin allocation with past occupancy rates perhaps adjusted to account for differences in the number of patients served characteristics of those patients and the number of available bins. Those skilled in the art will recognize that past occupancy rates may be expressed in a number of ways e.g. as the ratio of PSBs used per patient .

An automatic re allocation or re allocation message is triggered in one embodiment when these past PSB occupancy rates exceed a threshold. The threshold may be different for different types of bins. Thus while the re allocation based on past occupancy rates may be performed for PSBs generally it may also be directed to certain types of PSBs. By way of example past occupancy rates may be used to identify historically under utilized ISBs and re allocate them as PSBs.

In addition to current and past occupancy rate data future patient or medication information may also be used in the re allocation or suggested re allocation of PSBs or ISBs. Information may be analyzed about new transferred or existing patients scheduled to occupy rooms served by a dispensing device . Information on their known medication orders may be analyzed to determine storage needs e.g. analyzing medications from the medication order that will be active during the future period . In addition medications and or storage needs may be estimated for such patients given their medical conditions. Future occupancy rates may be determined based on information gathered for scheduled patients.

In addition estimates may be made of medications and storage needs of future unscheduled patients to be served from the dispensing device. For example such estimates may be based on typical needs for the average or estimated number of unscheduled patients to be served from the device. Future occupancy rates may be determined based on these estimates for unscheduled patients.

As set forth above for past and current occupancy rate data PSBs or ISBs may be re allocated based on the future occupancy rate data as well. For example the current bin allocation may be evaluated in light of future occupancy rates. An automatic re allocation is triggered in one embodiment when these future PSB occupancy rates exceed a threshold which may be different for different types of bins .

The re allocations and suggested re allocations described herein may be made immediately without application of any time restraints. However in one embodiment the re allocation is scheduled or advised to occur at a future time e.g. scheduled to occur for an dispensing device of an ER over a busy weekend . In another embodiment a re allocation is scheduled to recur at a number of future times.

In many instances set forth above ISBs are re allocated as PSBs. However it is worth noting that the principles outlined above may be applied in the reverse direction as well. For example when occupancy rates attributed to a current bin allocation indicate that PSBs are under utilized while ISBs are over utilized PSBs may be re allocated as ISBs.

Turning to a block diagram illustrates an example implementation of a system configured to re allocate bins. In one embodiment the functional components are integrated with data stores and the central computer system of .

Data stores include a data store holding current bin configuration data for a dispensing device or set of devices. Data stores also include a data store holding the occupancy rate data for a dispensing device or set of devices. The data store that is storing the occupancy rate data includes data stores for past occupancy rate data current occupancy rate data and future occupancy rate data . Data stores may receive bin configuration data and occupancy data from dispensing device 

Data stores are in communication with a central server computer system . The occupancy data e.g. for a particular dispensing device or bin type therein from data store may be transmitted to or accessed from the central server computer system . An arbitration unit within the central server computer system may process the received occupancy data attributing different weights to past current or future occupancy data. Certain aspects of the data may be filtered out while other aspects may be weighted more heavily.

The occupancy data after being processed by the arbitration unit may be forwarded to a re allocation unit within the central server computer system . The bin configuration data e.g. for a particular dispensing device or bin type therein from data store may be transmitted to or accessed from the central server computer system . The re allocation unit may use the received bin configuration data in conjunction with the weighted occupancy rate data to determine the timing and identify the bins for re allocation.

Although the current bin configuration data store past occupancy rate data store current occupancy rate data store and future occupancy rate data store are shown as components of data store in other embodiments any subset of this data may be stored locally at a dispensing device or elsewhere. Similarly although arbitration unit and re allocation unit are shown as components of central server computer system in other embodiments any subset of this functionality may be performed locally at a dispensing device or elsewhere. Thus data storage and processing functions may flow through the systems.

Referring next to one embodiment of a method of allocating bins at a dispensing device is illustrated. This method may for example be performed in whole or in part by the central server computer system or the computer of dispensing device or of B or . Also it is worth noting that in this and in other embodiments various steps may be excluded and the order may be rearranged.

At block a current bin allocation is identified for a dispensing device by identifying bins allocated as PSBs and bins allocated as ISBs. At block occupancy rates associated with the PSBs at the dispensing device are determined. At block item specific bins are automatically re allocated as PSBs based on the identified current bin allocation and the determined occupancy rates.

Referring next to an example of a method of allocating bins at a dispensing device based on current occupancy rates is illustrated. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof. This method may be an embodiment of the method performed with respect to .

At block current bin allocation is identified for a dispensing device by identifying bins allocated as PSBs. At block current occupancy rates associated with the PSBs at the dispensing device are determined for each of a number of types of PSBs. At block an automatic re allocation is triggered when current occupancy rates for a selected type of PSB exceed a threshold set for the selected type. The threshold occupancy levels may vary for different types of PSBs.

At block other bins at the dispensing device are automatically re allocated as the selected type of PSB. This re allocation may be from non PSBs of the selected type designation i.e. they may be bins of the same type . This re allocation may but need not be targeted at bin types PSBs or non PSBs that have low occupancy rates. In one embodiment certain bin types may be changed when bins of a given type have relatively high or low occupancy rates e.g. bins with high security options may store low security items .

Referring next to an example of a method of allocating bins at a dispensing device based on past occupancy rates is illustrated. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof. This method may be an embodiment of the method performed with respect to .

At block a current bin allocation is identified for a dispensing device by identifying bins allocated as PSBs. At block past occupancy rates are analyzed for a number of previous time periods to determine an average occupancy rate for the PSBs e.g. as applied to the current bin configuration . At block past occupancy rates are analyzed for previous time periods to determine a variance in occupancy rates for the PSBs. This variance may be a variance in the average occupancy rate a day to day variance seasonal variance a variance within periods or other measures of variance.

At block an estimated turn away rate at which users will be unable to store medications in PSBs at the dispensing device is analyzed. In one embodiment the turn away rate estimate is based on the average occupancy rate and variance. At block bins are automatically re allocated as PSBs based on the average occupancy rate the variance and the turn away rate in light of the current bin allocation at the device. In other embodiments the weights of each factor may be varied depending on cabinet bin or patient characteristics. Moreover note that only a subset of these factors are used in some embodiments.

Turning to an example of a method of allocating bins at a dispensing device based on future occupancy rates is illustrated. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof. This method may be an embodiment of the method performed with respect to .

At block a current bin allocation is identified for a dispensing device by identifying bins allocated as PSBs. At block new existing and or transfer patients are identified who are scheduled to be served from the dispensing device at a future time period. At block medication orders set to be active for the scheduled patients during the future time period are identified. At block patient specific storage needs are estimated for the scheduled patients based on the active medication orders. Additional patient specific storage needs for the scheduled patients may be estimated e.g. based on typical needs for patients similar to the scheduled patients .

At block patient specific storage needs are estimated for unscheduled patients likely be served from the dispensing device at the future time period e.g. based on typical needs for the average or estimated number of unscheduled patients likely to be served from the device . At block future occupancy rates are estimated for the PSBs at the dispensing device based on the estimated patient specific storage needs of scheduled and unscheduled patients. At block bins are automatically re allocated as PSBs based on the future occupancy rates.

Turning to an example of a method of allocating bins at a dispensing device based a combination of past current or future occupancy rates is illustrated. This method may for example be performed by the central server computer system a computer of dispensing device or or any combination thereof. This method may be an embodiment of the method performed with respect to .

At block a current bin allocation is identified for a dispensing device by identifying bins allocated as PSBs and identifying bin types. This method may then make use of any subset or weighted combination of past current and or future occupancy rates for PSBs of the device.

At block past occupancy rates are analyzed to determine an average occupancy rate for the PSBs. This may be an average over a time period a seasonally adjusted average an average at certain times of the day or week a cabinet specific average a facility wide average or an otherwise calculated average occupancy rate. At block past occupancy rates are analyzed to determine a variance from average occupancy rates for the PSBs.

At block current occupancy rates are analyzed for the PSBs. This may be on a real time query or on recent polling data. At block turn away rates for the PSBs are estimated in light of the current occupancy rates. The turn away rate is a rate in which a user trying to store items in a PSB will be unable to store medications in PSBs at the dispensing device.

At block future occupancy rates are estimated for the PSBs for patients currently scheduled to be served from the device during a future time period. At block future occupancy rates are estimated for the PSBs based on storage needs of an estimate of patients to be served from the device during a future time period yet who are not currently on the schedule.

At block factors associated with past current and future occupancy rates are used with different weights to determine occupancy rates for different PSB types. At block bins are automatically re allocated as a first type of PSB for a finite time period beginning at a future time. At block bins are automatically re allocated as a second type of PSBs on a recurring basis e.g. flip flopping between PSB and ISB allocation at certain times of the day . Any of the automated re allocation as described with reference to may instead be an automated transmission of a re allocation message to direct re allocation to a user the dispensing device or the central server computer system.

A device structure that may be used for a central server computer system of or the computer of the patient dispensing device or of B or the computer of the central dispensing unit of or B or other computing devices or functional or processing units described herein is illustrated with the schematic diagram of . This drawing broadly illustrates how individual system elements of each of the aforementioned devices may be implemented whether in a separated or more integrated manner.

The example structure is shown made up of hardware elements that are electrically coupled via bus including processor s which may be or may include a DSP or special purpose processor storage device s input device s and output device s . The storage device s may be a machine readable storage media reader connected to any machine readable storage medium the combination comprehensively representing remote local fixed or removable storage devices or storage media for temporarily or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications systems interface may interface to a wired wireless or other type of interfacing connection that permits data to be exchanged with other devices. The communications system s may permit data to be exchanged with a network. There may also be a GPS or other location based receiver configured to transmit location information about a device that may be leveraged for various purposes.

The structure may also include additional software elements shown as being currently located within working memory including an operating system and other code such as programs or applications designed to implement methods of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be used in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Thus any functionality described herein may be implemented with one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs adapted to perform some or all of the applicable functions in hardware. Alternatively the functions may be performed by one or more other processing units or cores on one or more integrated circuits. In other embodiments other types of integrated circuits may be used e.g. Structured Platform ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and other Semi Custom ICs which may be programmed in any manner known in the art.

It should be noted that the methods systems and devices discussed above are intended to be interpreted as examples only. It must be stressed that various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different than that described and that various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also it should be emphasized that technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term memory may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels a sim card other smart cards and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instructions or data.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the necessary tasks.

Having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be required before the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

