---

title: Dynamic soft keyboard
abstract: In accordance with one or more aspects of a dynamic soft keyboard, a user input is received via a soft keyboard having multiple keys. Information describing a current input environment for the soft keyboard is obtained, and a determination is made as to which one or more keys of the multiple keys was intended to be selected by the user input. This determination is made based at least in part on the current input environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552155&OS=09552155&RS=09552155
owner: Microsoft Technology Liecsnsing, LLC
number: 09552155
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080204
---
Many different types of mobile computing devices are currently available typically providing a large amount of computing power in a small package. One challenge faced by mobile devices however is data entry. Users are accustomed to entering data via keyboards which can be large and cumbersome oftentimes larger than the mobile computing device itself. Some mobile computing devices solve this problem by using a soft keyboard which is a keyboard displayed on a display of the mobile device and which allows the user to select the keys that are displayed e.g. using a stylus the user s finger etc. . Unfortunately due to the lack of physically separate keys and the frequently small size of soft keyboards it remains difficult for users to select keys on soft keyboards.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A dynamic soft keyboard is discussed herein. In accordance with one or more aspects a user input is received via a soft keyboard the soft keyboard including multiple keys. Information describing a current input environment for the soft keyboard is obtained and a determination is made as to which one or more keys of the multiple keys was intended to be selected by the user input. This determination is made based at least in part on the current input environment.

A dynamic soft keyboard is discussed herein. A soft keyboard user interface is displayed to a user. Various information describing the current input environment for the soft keyboard user interface is also obtained. This information describing the current input environment can include for example information describing a current type of data being entered by the user e.g. an email address a zip code a city etc. information describing a language typically used by the user data commonly entered by the user the physical operating environment e.g. on a desk in motion walking in a moving car etc. the characters and or words near a data input field and so forth. This information describing the current user input environment is used to detect which key s of the soft keyboard was intended to be selected by the user when a user input is received. The dynamic soft keyboard can thus aid user input speed and user satisfaction.

Computing device includes a soft keyboard control module and a predictive keyboard module . Soft keyboard control module generates a soft keyboard for display to a user. Soft keyboard is a user interface displayed on a display device. Soft keyboard includes multiple keys that can be selected by a user as discussed in more detail below. Computing device can include a display component via which soft keyboard can be displayed or alternatively can output a signal or data to another device or component via which soft keyboard can be displayed.

Soft keyboard includes multiple keys that can be arranged in any of a variety of different layouts and that can correspond to any of a variety of different alphanumeric characters kanji symbols character or word groups e.g. http www. and so forth other symbols and so forth. One example layout for the keys is a QWERTY layout although other layouts can alternatively be provided. Additionally soft keyboard is dynamic. This dynamic nature refers to the behavior of predictive keyboard module changing over time and or the user interface displayed as soft keyboard changing over time. As discussed in more detail below this changing can include a changing of the layout of the keyboard a change in the different alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys a change in which locations on soft keyboard correspond to which keys a change in hit target logic and so forth.

Soft keyboard is displayed on a display device and user inputs are entered via this display device as well. In one or more embodiments the display device displaying soft keyboard is or incorporates a touch screen or touchpad via which user inputs can be entered by the user touching or coming in close physical proximity to the areas of the display device that display the keys of soft keyboard . This touching or close physical proximity can be made using a stylus pen finger and so forth. In other embodiments other pointing devices are used rather than a touch screen or touchpad. Any of a variety of other pointing devices can be used to navigate a pointer and enter inputs using soft keyboard including relative pointing devices such as a mouse thumbstick trackpad trackball and so forth. Other types of pointing devices can also be used including absolute disconnected pointing devices such as pen tablets. These various pointing devices typically include one or more buttons or other selection mechanism s that can be actuated by the user to select a particular location of soft keyboard e.g. the user can press a mouse button when a pointer is located over the desired area of soft keyboard . There need not be any separate physical keyboard with physical keys that correspond to soft keyboard via which user inputs are entered.

As discussed above any of a variety of different pointing devices can be used to enter inputs on soft keyboard . As an example of a pointing device illustrates a stylus which the user can use to touch or hover over a particular key of keyboard . When the user touches a particular area of keyboard with stylus or a pointer controlled by another pointing device or moves stylus or other pointer over a particular area of keyboard the particular key that the user intended to select by the touching or movement of the stylus or other pointing device is automatically detected. The manner in which this automatic detection is performed is based at least in part on a current input environment as discussed in more detail below.

In one or more embodiments display device includes a touch screen or touchpad allowing the user to touch or move a stylus close to different areas of display device to allow the user to enter a user input. Such a touch screen or touchpad can be an electromagnetic input device a capacitive input device a resistive input device a surface acoustic wave input device an optical imaging input device and so forth. Such touch screens or touchpads are well known to those skilled in the art. It is to be appreciated that if other pointing devices are used such as a mouse pen tablet etc. then display device need not include a touch screen or touchpad.

Returning to soft keyboard control module also receives user input . User input refers to the selection of a particular location s of soft keyboard . This selection can be made using a stylus pen finger pointer controlled by a pointing device and so forth as discussed above. The user input is typically represented by module as a set of one or more coordinates e.g. X Y coordinates X Y Z coordinates etc. identifying the location s of soft keyboard that were selected by the user. As discussed above this selection can include the touching or moving in close proximity to a touch screen or touchpad or other inputs from other pointing devices. The X and Y coordinates refer to the horizontal and vertical locations respectively of the input surface e.g. the surface of a touch screen touchpad pen tablet and so forth . The Z coordinate represents the distance from the input surface and can be used to determine whether a user is hovering over a portion of the input surface.

In one or more embodiments user input is a stream of data e.g. a stream of X Y coordinates a stream of X Y Z coordinates etc. . This stream of data includes one or more of an incoming trajectory one or more pen down trajectories and an outgoing trajectory. The incoming trajectory refers to a stream of coordinates before the pointing device hits the surface or before the selection mechanism is actuated by the user . A pen down trajectory refers to a location on the surface that the pointing device hits or that the pointer is located at when the selection mechanism is actuated by the user . Oftentimes there is a single pen down trajectory although multiple pen down trajectories can be received e.g. if the user bounces the pen as it hits the surface . The outgoing trajectory refers to a stream of coordinates as the pointing device leaves the surface or after the selection mechanism is actuated by the user .

Predictive keyboard module receives user input from soft keyboard control module . Predictive keyboard module determines based on both user input and information describing the current input environment for soft keyboard which one or more keys of soft keyboard the user intended to select with user input . As discussed in more detail below this current input environment describes various aspects of the environment in which soft keyboard is displayed such as a current type of data being entered by the user e.g. an email address a zip code a city etc. a language typically used by the user of soft keyboard data commonly entered by the user of soft keyboard and so forth.

In one or more embodiments predictive keyboard module also determines based on user input and or information describing the current input environment for soft keyboard changes to make to soft keyboard . These changes can be a change in layout of the keyboard and or a change in the different alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys as discussed in more detail below.

Soft keyboard control module generates a soft keyboard and receives user input analogous to soft keyboard and user input of . User input is a selection made by a user of soft keyboard the selection being a selection of a particular one or more locations of soft keyboard . This selection can be made in different manners such as by touching the display device with a finger pen stylus etc. by moving a pointer over a location of the soft keyboard by moving a pen or stylus close to the display device and so forth. This selection includes one or more of an incoming trajectory one or more pen down trajectories and an outgoing trajectory as discussed above. Soft keyboard control module can represent user input in any of a variety of different manners.

In one or more embodiments user input is represented as a set of one or more X Y coordinates. The set of X Y coordinates identify a particular location of soft keyboard in a 2 dimensional space. A particular location of soft keyboard is determined to be the origin e.g. the lower left corner of soft keyboard the center of soft keyboard etc. and the X Y values represent locations along the X axis and the Y axis relative to the origin.

Additionally in one or more embodiments the display device on which soft keyboard is displayed supports a Z axis. This Z axis is perpendicular to the 2 dimensional space of the X Y coordinates. Such display devices can detect for example a stylus positioned close to but not touching the display device. The distance between the stylus and the display device is recorded as a Z value. Thus when used with such display devices user input is represented as a set of one or more X Y Z coordinates.

Additionally in one or more embodiments an additional time value T is recorded for the user input. The time value T refers to the duration of the user s selection such as an amount of time that the user s stylus was touching a particular X Y location of keyboard an amount of time that the user s stylus was held a particular distance Z from a particular X Y location of keyboard the amount of time that a pointer was held over hovered over a particular X Y location of keyboard and so forth. Thus in such embodiments user input is represented as a set of one or more X Y T or alternatively X Y Z T coordinates. The time value T is an input into predictive keyboard engine and can be used to make better predictions for the text input desired by the user as discussed in more detail below.

Furthermore in one or more embodiments multiple locations of keyboard can be selected concurrently. These multiple locations could be for example two or more locations selected simultaneously e.g. using two fingers such as the Shift key plus a letter key the Control key plus a letter key and so forth. These multiple locations could also be movement from one location to another e.g. touch keyboard with a stylus at one location slide the stylus across the display device and then lift up the stylus at another location and so forth. In such situations user input is represented as a set of multiple coordinates e.g. X Y X Y Z X Y T X Y Z T etc. . One or more coordinates optionally also includes a trajectory parameter that identifies a direction in which the stylus or finger pen etc. is being moved along the display device either when in contact with the display device or located close to the display device e.g. a distance Z from the display device . In some embodiments given current hardware users typically have more errors in targeting in the vertical direction and are more precise in the horizontal direction.

Predictive keyboard module receives user input from soft keyboard control module and determines based on both user input and information describing the current input environment for soft keyboard which one or more keys of soft keyboard the user intended to select with user input . In one or more embodiments predictive keyboard module also determines changes to make to soft keyboard based at least in part on the current input environment. An indication of these changes is sent to soft keyboard control module which changes the display of soft keyboard accordingly.

Predictive keyboard module includes a predictive keyboard engine an operation mode detection module a language dictionaries module a user specific lexica module a context mapping module a language detection module and a word and phrase n gram statistics module . Each of modules provides to predictive keyboard engine various information regarding the current input environment for soft keyboard . Predictive keyboard engine in turn uses this information regarding the current input environment to change soft keyboard e.g. the layout or the characters or symbols corresponding to particular keys and also to determine which one or more keys of soft keyboard the user intended to select with user input .

Predictive keyboard engine outputs an indication of which key a user intended to select with a particular user input. This indication is typically used to update the user interface of soft keyboard and can also be provided to another component not shown for utilization as a character s entry. This indication can also be returned to one or more of modules to assist in determining the current input environment. For example as discussed in more detail below user specific lexica module can monitor words that are input by the user.

Additionally in one or more embodiments predictive keyboard engine also outputs a predicted input string which is a prediction by engine of a particular word or phrase that the user is inputting. Outputting this predication allows the user to select an autocomplete option where the predicted word or phrase is input without the user needing to enter any more characters of the word or phrase. The predicted input string is provided to soft keyboard control module or alternatively another component of system not shown so that the predicted word or phrase can be displayed to the user. The user can select this displayed predicted word or phrase in different manners via soft keyboard such as by selecting an enter key by selecting an autocomplete key by selecting a particular character in the predicted word or phrase and so forth. It should be noted that the user can also optionally select only a portion of the predicted word or phrase.

Operation mode detection module detects the operation mode of the device on which soft keyboard is being displayed. The operation mode can include for example the physical situation and or geographical location of the device. The physical situation refers to a physical description of how the device is being used. This physical description can include for example whether the device is stationary or moving whether the device is oriented in a particular direction and so forth. The physical situation can be determined in different manners such as being specified by a user of the device using motion sensors in the device based on peripheral devices or other components that the device is coupled to based on communications with a wireless base or access point and so forth.

The geographic location refers to a geographic description of where the device is located. The geographic location can be determined in different manners such as being specified by a user of the device using a global positioning system GPS of the device based on an address e.g. Internet protocol IP address assigned to the device and so forth.

The information describing the operation mode of the device from operation mode detection module can be used by predictive keyboard engine in a variety of different manners. For example predictive keyboard engine may assume that it is more difficult to accurately identify a particular key when a device is moving rather than stationary so engine may assign larger areas of soft keyboard to particular keys when the device is moving rather than when the device is stationary. These larger areas could corresponding to larger keys being displayed on soft keyboard or larger hit targets for particular keys as discussed in more detail below.

Language dictionaries module makes one or more language specific dictionaries available to predictive keyboard engine . Predictive keyboard engine can automatically attempt to identify particular words or phrases that are being input by a user so that a next character or other symbol that is likely to be input by the user can be determined. For example if the user enters uni predictive keyboard engine may automatically identify that the user is attempting to enter the word united so the next character input by the user is likely to be the letter t . Predictive keyboard engine can use various information from different modules to attempt to identify particular words or phrases that are being input by a user one of which is the specific language typically being used by the user. One piece of information provided to predictive keyboard engine by language dictionaries module to assist in making this determination is a dictionary of words and or phrases for the language s typically being used by the user.

The language s typically being used by the user can be identified in different manners. For example the language s can be specified by the user can be a default language based on a location where system is sold e.g. if system was sold in France then the default language would be French can be based on previous inputs by the user e.g. if the majority of previous inputs were in English then the language would be English can be obtained from another module such as language detection module discussed in more detail below and so forth.

User specific lexica module gathers and maintains information regarding words or other data such as numbers symbols etc. that are commonly entered by a user. This information can be gathered and maintained in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments words entered by the user and a corresponding frequency indicating how often those words are entered is maintained. This frequency can be for example a word count that is incremented every time the word is entered a ratio indicating how often the word occurs relative to other words maintained by module and so forth. Additionally a user or administrator e.g. for a corporation the user works for can optionally install a new custom dictionary adding their words as they are input by the user and or optionally including default words and frequencies for the user .

Furthermore the words that are tracked or maintained by module can be aged over time so that words used with the same frequency but longer ago are identified as less commonly used by the user than words that were entered more recently. This aging can be performed in different manners such as by maintaining a record of how long ago a particular word was used e.g. in minutes hours days etc. by altering e.g. decreasing the frequency corresponding to a word that has not been used for at least a threshold amount of time and so forth.

As discussed above predictive keyboard engine can automatically attempt to identify particular words or phrases that are being input by a user. One piece of information provided to predictive keyboard engine by user specific lexica module is the information regarding words or other data that are commonly entered by the user.

Context mapping module maintains a mapping of particular fields in which a user may enter data to types of data that are valid for each particular field. For example if the field is a zip code field then the valid data could be numbers but not letters. By way of another example if the field is an email address field then the valid data could be letters numbers and some symbols such as but not other symbols such as or .

Context mapping module can identify particular fields being displayed to a user along with soft keyboard in any of a variety of different manners. For example the data being displayed on the screen can be analyzed and certain fields identified e.g. a field with a label of zip or zip code a field with a label of email or email address and so forth . By way of another example various tags or identifiers can be included in the data being displayed along with soft keyboard these tags or identifiers indicating to context mapping module the particular fields being displayed. By way of another example input fields can explicitly declare their existence as well as their type or legal input restrictions via an operating system application programming interface API on system .

The valid types of data for particular fields can be identified in different manners. In one or more embodiments the valid types of data for particular fields are pre programmed in or otherwise identified to context mapping module . For example various tags identifiers or other metadata corresponding to data being displayed along with soft keyboard can identify the valid types of data for particular fields or other remote devices can be accessed to obtain the valid types of data for particular fields. By way of another example an operating system API on system can be invoked to obtain the valid types of data for particular fields. In other embodiments one or more valid types of data for particular fields can be automatically identified by context mapping module . For example context mapping module can learn that a particular type of data is not valid for a particular field if the user attempts to enter data of that type and an error is returned to the user by a program or other component processing the input.

The context mapping information from context mapping module can be used by predictive keyboard engine in any of a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments predictive keyboard engine determines that particular types of data that are not valid for a particular field are not intended to be selected with user input . For example if the particular field accepts only numbers then predictive keyboard engine can determine that the key that a user intended to select would be a number key on soft keyboard that is closest to user input . By way of another example if the particular field accepts only numbers then predictive keyboard engine can indicate to soft keyboard control module that soft keyboard is to include only numbers and no letters.

Alternatively predictive keyboard engine can determine that particular types of data that are valid are to be easier for the user to select than other types of data. For example if the symbol is a valid symbol for a particular field but the symbols and are not valid symbols for that field then hit target logic implemented by predictive keyboard engine can increase the likelihood that the symbol is selected. This likelihood can be increased in different manners such as by making a hit target for the symbol larger than for the and symbols. The hit target on soft keyboard for a particular key refers to the locations of soft keyboard that correspond to that particular key. As the and symbols are on either side of the symbol on many keyboards altering the hit target size makes it easier for the user to select the symbol by touching soft keyboard on or close to the symbol. The use of hit targets and hit target logic implemented by predictive keyboard engine is are discussed in more detail below.

Language detection module identifies the language being used by the user of system . The language can be identified in different manners such as the user specifying the language or module automatically identifying the language. Module can automatically identify the language by for example accessing a default language for system e.g. as recorded by an operating system accessing context mapping module to identify types of data and their corresponding language e.g. if kanji symbols are the valid type of data then the language can be automatically identified as Japanese and so forth.

The language identified by language detection module can be the language typically used by the user of system or alternatively can be the language used by the user of system for a particular entry being made by the user. For example if the user has entered a partial word e.g. uni then language detection module can automatically detect a language being entered by the user. This can be a stand alone detection e.g. based only on the partial word or alternatively can be in conjunction with other information e.g. the language s typically used by the user of system .

Word and phrase n gram statistics module identifies words or phrases that are more likely than others based on partial inputs. This can include for example identification of a word based on a partial word input and identification of a phrase based on a single or multiple word input. In one or more embodiments this identification is based on actual words e.g. from a dictionary supplied by language dictionaries module . For example if the word united is entered then module can indicate that a word states is more likely than a word run .

In other embodiments this identification by module is based on grammar rules or other rules. For example two verbs are typically not adjacent one another so if a verb is entered as a first word then module can indicate that the next word in the phrase is not likely to be a verb. By way of another example module can determine that a phrase United States of America is often entered by the user of system so module can determine that if United States has been entered by the user then of America is more likely next in the phrase than other word combinations.

The information identifying likely words or phrases from word and phrase n gram statistics module can be used by predictive keyboard engine in any of a variety of different manners. Analogous to the discussion above regarding context mapping module the information identifying likely words or phrases can be used to determine that particular words letters or other symbols are not intended to be selected with user input and thus disallow entry of such words letters or other symbols or alternatively can alter hit targets making it easier for the user to select particular words letters or other symbols.

Predictive keyboard engine receives information describing the current input environment from the various modules as discussed above. Predictive keyboard engine uses this information describing the current input environment to change the layout and or alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys of soft keyboard and or to determine which key a user intended to select with a particular user input. Predictive keyboard engine repeats this changing and or determination after each selection of a key s is made by the user. The current input environment can change after every selection of a key s by the user and the new current input environment can be taken into account by predictive keyboard engine after every selection of a key s by the user.

As discussed above the information describing the current input environment can indicate that certain inputs are more likely than others. In one or more embodiments this information is used to change the layout of soft keyboard . For example the information can be used to change the layout of soft keyboard from a QWERTY layout to a numeric pad layout to include only certain keys from the QWERTY layout and so forth.

In other embodiments the information describing the current input environment is used to change which alphanumeric characters or other symbols correspond to the keys of soft keyboard . In response to such a change soft keyboard displays the new corresponding characters or symbols for those keys rather than the previously displayed characters or symbols and selection of one of those keys results in a user input of the displayed corresponding character or symbol. For example a row of keys of soft keyboard may be changed from corresponding to numbers to corresponding to symbols. By way of another example certain keys may be changed to correspond to certain language specific characters and or symbols.

In other embodiments the information describing the current input environment is used to change the faces of keys of soft keyboard . In response to such a change soft keyboard displays different faces for keys. For example keys that are likely and or possible future letters of words that are being entered can be highlighted. By way of another example keys for letters that would not result in a word based on letters already entered could be dimmed to aid in visual targeting and reduce user effort.

In other embodiments the information describing the current input environment is used to determine which key a user intended to select with a particular user input. Predictive keyboard engine including a hit target logic uses the current input environment along with user input to identify which particular key on soft keyboard the user intended to select.

One way in which predictive keyboard engine can use the current input environment and user input is to alter the sizes of hit targets for particular keys. As discussed above each key on soft keyboard can have a corresponding hit target and predictive keyboard engine can assign the hit target to each key. This hit target for a particular key refers to the locations on soft keyboard that correspond to that particular key. The hit target for a particular key can be altered the hit target can be increased in size by predictive keyboard engine so that more locations on soft keyboard correspond to that particular key or can be decreased in size by predictive keyboard engine so that fewer locations on soft keyboard correspond to that particular key. Increasing the hit target for a key thus typically makes it easier for the user to select that key while decreasing the hit target for a key typically makes it more difficult for the user to select that key.

It should be noted that this can result in situations where the hit target for one key is larger than an adjacent key and actually extends over a portion of the display of the adjacent key. For example assume that predictive keyboard engine determines that a letter d is likely to be the next character input by the user. The hit target for the letter d can be increased while the hit target for an adjacent letter f can be decreased. The hit target for the letter d can include locations in which the key for the letter f is actually displayed on soft keyboard . Thus in this example if the user were to press the location at the edge of the key for the letter f predictive keyboard engine determines that the letter d is the key that was intended to be selected by the user. Such situations can occur for a variety of different reasons such as if the user is walking while making inputs in which case it is more difficult for the user to accurately hit a desired key .

Additionally predictive keyboard engine can make certain keys on soft keyboard invalid. Thus predictive keyboard engine does not indicate an invalid key was intended to be selected with a particular user input regardless of what that particular user input is. For example if the symbol is determined to be invalid then predictive keyboard engine does not indicate that the symbol was intended to be selected with a particular user input regardless of what that particular user input is.

Predictive keyboard engine can determine how to change the layout and or alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys of soft keyboard and or determine which key a user intended to select with a particular user input in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments predictive keyboard engine is a learning system that is trained with various inputs combinations of user input and various different information describing the current input environment . This training involves providing engine with the various inputs and the correct answer so that engine can learn what answers should be given in response to the various inputs. An initial training is typically performed by the designers of predictive keyboard engine and additional training can be performed during operation of system . This additional training can be performed for example based on feedback given to engine indicating whether a particular output was the correct output. Any of a variety of different learning systems can be used including artificial intelligence systems and other statistical based systems. For example such learning systems can include an artificial neural network Bayesian inference system k nearest neighbor algorithm and so forth.

Alternatively predictive keyboard engine can be implemented as other systems. For example engine can be implemented using any of a variety of statistical analysis systems to evaluate the user input and the various different information describing the current input environment. By way of another example engine could be implemented using various other rules criteria or weightings applied to the user input and the various different information describing the current input environment.

Thus it can be seen that soft keyboard is dynamic. In one or more embodiments soft keyboard changes layouts and or alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys resulting in a dynamic soft keyboard. Additionally in one or more embodiments which key a user intended to select with a particular user input can change resulting in a dynamic soft keyboard. Such changes regarding which key a user intended to select with a particular user input can be made with or without displaying an indication of such changes to the user.

Initially a user input is received via a soft keyboard act . This user input is a particular one or more locations of a soft keyboard as discussed above. Additionally information describing a current input environment is obtained act . This information can be any of a variety of different types of information such as the information discussed above with reference to modules of .

A particular one or more keys that were intended to be selected by the user input are determined act based at least in part on the information obtained in act . An indication of the one or more keys that were determined to be selected by the user is output act . An indication of a predicted input string is also optionally output act . Additionally in one or more embodiments the soft keyboard is altered act based at least in part on the information obtained in act . This altering can be for example changing the layout and or changing the alphanumeric characters or symbols corresponding to the keys of the soft keyboard as discussed above.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more computer readable media which can include one or more memory and or storage components one or more input output I O devices via which user input of or user input of are received and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Computer readable media and or I O device s can be included as part of or alternatively may be coupled to computing device . Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Component can include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

The techniques discussed herein can be implemented in software with instructions being executed by processing unit s . It is to be appreciated that different instructions can be stored in different components of computing device such as in a processing unit in various cache memories of a processing unit in other cache memories of device not shown on other computer readable media and so forth. Additionally it is to be appreciated that the location where instructions are stored in computing device can change over time.

One or more input output devices allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. This information presented to the user can include soft keyboard of or soft keyboard of . Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor or pointer control device e.g. a mouse a trackpad a thumbstick a pen tablet etc. a microphone a scanner a touchscreen a touchpad and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card and so forth.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

Generally any of the functions or techniques described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module functionality and logic as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module functionality or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices further description of which may be found with reference to . The features of the dynamic soft keyboard techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

