---

title: System for object retransmission without a continuous network connection in a digital media distributor system
abstract: The present invention provides a system and computer readable medium for object retransmission in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection in a digital media distributor (DMD) system. The system and computer readable medium include receiving objects in a receiver from a central site, generating a response document in the receiver, and sending the response document asynchronously to the central site. The received response documents are then utilized in the central site to determine which object to retransmit to the receiver. In another aspect of the present invention, the central site manages the inventory of objects in the receiver by instructing the receiver to delete objects not needed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07818765&OS=07818765&RS=07818765
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07818765
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081209
---
Under 35 USC 120 this application is a continuation application and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 773 047 filed Jan. 29 2001 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OBJECT RETRANSMISSION WITHOUT A CONTINUOUS NETWORK CONNECTION IN A DIGITAL MEDIA DISTRIBUTOR SYSTEM which is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 420 802 entitled MULTIMEDIA INFORMATION COMPUTER SYSTEM AND METHOD OF OPERATION OF A PLAYLIST SCHEDULER to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 524 082 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTIMIZATION OF DISTRIBUTION TO REDUCE STORAGE REQUIREMENTS IN A DIGITAL MEDIA DISTRIBUTOR and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 523 827 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENSURING RELIABLE PLAYOUT IN A DMD SYSTEM and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 781 074 METHOD FOR OBJECT RETRANSMISSION WITHOUT A CONTINUOUS NETWORK CONNECTION IN A DIGITAL MEDIA DISTRIBUTOR SYSTEM all of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to digital media distribution and more particularly to object retransmission in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection in a digital media distributor DMD system.

Although broadcasters have sophisticated systems for inserting national commercials into a program stream including integrated traffic and billing systems there are numerous obstacles to implementing a system to insert local commercials at small markets into a national program feed distributed by satellite. Until now such local spot insertion advertising was the responsibility of the local broadcaster or cable operator.

Inserting local advertising poses several nontrivial technical logistical and business challenges. First literally hundreds of widely distributed local operators or affiliates would need to receive the commercials ad agencies would have to ship analog tapes to hundreds of organizations with different traffic and billing systems. These tapes would need to be tested for quality assurance tracked and stored until needed. They would then have to be distributed to video tape recorders and readied for computer controlled playout analog at the proper time 24 hours a day seven days a week. Such infrastructure generally exists at well funded affiliates in major markets but is nonexistent and prohibitively expensive for smaller operators or affiliates in small markets.

Managing such tapes with ads for local commercials and inserting them properly into the program feed is a complex undertaking not well suited for the smaller operators especially for channels with smaller audiences in smaller markets. A quality broadcast involves more than excellent program material it must provide seamless insertion of national and local advertisements promotions and station identifications.

Equally important is the ability to maintain the integrity of the national television programming. Centralized control of the channel s programming playout is required to prevent local affiliates from tampering with the programming.

Accordingly a need exists for an efficient system for retransmission of digital media data in an asynchronous environment to receivers of a digital media distributor system. The present invention addresses such a need.

The present invention provides a system and computer readable medium for object retransmission in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection in a digital media distributor DMD system. The system and computer readable medium includes receiving objects in a receiver from a central site generating a response document in the receiver and sending the response document asynchronously to the central site. The received response documents are then utilized in the central site to determine which object s to retransmit to the receiver. In another aspect of the present invention the central site manages the inventory of objects in the receiver by instructing the receiver to delete objects not needed.

Through a system and computer readable medium in accordance with the present invention the central site manages object retransmission to the receiver in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection. Particularly through the implementation of the present invention streamlined management of retransmission ensures efficient and accurate delivery of objects to the receivers.

The present invention relates to digital media distribution and more particularly to object retransmission in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection in a DMD system. Objects include assets or spots which are media files and system supporting files which are non media files. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment and the generic principles and features described herein will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

In accordance with the present invention a DMD system provides a complete end to end system that gives local cable or network affiliates the ability to provide local ads and announcement insertion together with the delivery of cable or network feeds. In general the DMD integrates the entire process of sales traffic digital encoding and storage of spots transmission of data local insertion of digital ads and announcements account reconciliation and billing. Assets i.e. media such as commercials station identification public service announcements etc. are digitized by the cable or network operator and then digitally transmitted to the local cable head ends or network affiliates from a central site. These digital assets are then stored on the receiver servers located at each head end or affiliate.

A block diagram of a DMD in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in . As shown the DMD includes three major components a central site a distribution network and a receiver . Generally receivers are grouped into zones. All receivers within the same zone play the same material at the same time including all network programs national spots local commercials announcements etc. The central site is the location for the digital encoding of MPEG 2 files from source video tapes storage and management of digital files management of receivers and distribution of schedules and MPEG 2 files. Thus the processing analysis distribution and management of data occurs at the central site . The distribution network is the mechanism by which the receiver s receive program streams and digital spots. The data distribution is accomplished via various methods such as a satellite and or land based distribution. The broadcaster may choose to have the program stream sent via terrestrial links e.g. token ring ethernet etc. while the spot insertion is sent via satellites or vice versa.

Each of the receivers house a receiver server . By way of example a suitable receiver server includes a Pentium processor based device with a hard disk for local storage and a video switch card to switch between program and commercial insertion running software including Windows NT DMD programming Lotus Notes client Program Loader and Symantec pcANYWHERE. These unattended computerized systems receive the local insertion and provide As Run file generation. The receiver server is a video server that receives and stores digitized spots utilized for local insertion at the cable head end. The receiver server receives digitally encoded ads via satellite or other distribution network. These spots are decoded to an analog signal and inserted into the cable or network operator feed at scheduled times i.e. into scheduled local availability times. The receiver server can be customized in various configurations based on the number of output channels required the type of output format e.g. NTSC PAL the amount of local storage required i.e. the number of spots on disk the type of network satellite or terrestrial the type of trigger for spot insertion e.g. time of day VITC cue tome VBI trigger the audio format and connections stereo mini XLR or XLR the redundancy requirements RAID mirrored disks and the preview channel.

By way of example the following provides a sample process that illustrates an example of one process which the DMD solution can support. A zone defined by cable or network operators in an area sells a commercial in the local availability time. The videotaped segment for the commercial is digitally encoded. The digital material is scheduled for delivery to each receiver server prior to broadcast. The playlist digitized spots and the broadcast program stream are sent via satellite to all of the receiver servers within the zone. All of the receivers within the zone air the local spots for that zone at the scheduled time. As Run logs are retrieved by the central site from the receiver servers . As Run logs are sent to the local markets reviewed reconciled and customers are billed. Commercials and As Run logs are then archived.

The central site efficiently distributes objects and thus manages the resources of the receivers . By managing these resources the central site can determine when to send information to the receivers . A main component in producing the management of the resources is the central site server . By way of example a suitable central site server includes an IBM RS 6000 F50 dual CPU system or a Pentium II compatible PC running the IBM UNIX operating system AIX DB2 server software Lotus Notes server software ADSM Windows NT for PC based central site server and the DMD programming. Suitable components for the control workstations include Pentium compatible PCs running Windows NT Lotus Notes client DB2 client Microsoft Internet Explorer and DMD programming.

The central site server includes software on a suitable computer readable medium that is architected using a layered model in which each layer isolates the upper layers from the details of the lower layers and individual components within a layer provide a unique set of services as is well appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Underneath the top layer is a layer of specialized components including a stage manager component an uplink server component a transmission scheduler component and a response document processor component . This layer also includes specialized components for creating commands managing access to all the database queues and other data stores and providing automated agents that run based on time or events to manage the external interfaces e.g. processing files received from traffic systems. The stage manager manages any tape related activity the uplink server manages transmissions through the uplink network and the transmission scheduler manages scheduling tasks. The response document processor module analyzes and interprets responses from receivers . Also included as a next layer is a programming layer . The layer includes the programming libraries and APIs application programming interfaces that are used to build the specialized components. The lower two layers include an operating system layer and a hardware layer for the fundamental operation of the central site server as is well appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The transmission scheduler of layer is responsible for managing transmissions from the central site to the receiver servers . The transmission scheduler manages the transmission by executing a plurality of transforms i.e. bodies of logic that take particular inputs and perform certain operations to produce particular outputs and utilizing a plurality of queues as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 524 082 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTIMIZATION OF DISTRIBUTION TO REDUCE STORAGE REQUIREMENTS IN A DIGITAL MEDIA DISTRIBUTOR assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. Receivers however may not receive objects that have been transmitted from the central site due to for example power outages satellite problems or bad weather. Once communications have been reestablished the central site automatically begins the synchronization process and sends both additional assets and commands as needed.

In accordance with the present invention the central site coordinates object retransmission to the receivers through the utilization of the response document processor RDP module . The RDP module analyzes a response document generated by each receiver in a zone and determines which if any objects to retransmit.

Next each receiver will create a log of all objects received within a predetermined time period via step . This log is referred to as the Delivered Files Log. The predetermined time period is referred to as the Receiver Time Window. The objects respective received times are also recorded.

Next each receiver generates a Response Document which includes the Missing Assets List and the Delivered Files Log via step . In a preferred embodiment a Content List is also included. The Content List provides the receiver s asset inventory.

Once the Response Document is complete it is ready for delivery to the central site . Communication between each receiver and the central site is asynchronous i.e. the receiver periodically reports back to the central site but does not maintain a continuous network connection to the central site . The call back times are predetermined and periodic e.g. every thirty 30 minutes. The time period between call backs for a receiver is referred to as the Receiver Time Window. Thus as mentioned above the Delivered Files Log lists the objects received by the receiver during the time between call backs to the central site .

Next each receiver calls the central site at the receiver s predetermined time via step . Thereafter the receiver delivers the Response Document to the central site via step . In a preferred embodiment the Response Document is sent to the central site via modem. The scope of the present invention however is not limited to any one particular mode of transmission as one skill in the art would appreciate that other modes of transmission such as LAN are available.

Object retransmission is based on the contents of the Response Documents delivered from the receivers in a zone to the central site . At the central site the Response Document Processing RDP module performs a process to analyze the Response Document from each receiver in a zone. The RDP process is a four step process to determine which objects if any must be retransmitted to a zone or receiver .

The first step in the RDP process is to create a purge list for each receiver . The second step is to perform a zone level Missing Asset Process to determine which if any assets to retransmit to the zone. The third step in the RDP process is to perform a zone level Delivered Files Log Process to determine which objects if any to retransmit to the zone. Finally the fourth step is to perform a receiver level Delivered Files Log Process to determine which objects to retransmit to the receiver . To understand the RDP process in more detail refer now to the following description in conjunction with the accompanying figures. illustrate a data flow diagram of the RDP process in accordance with the present invention.

Referring now to and together first in step the central site receives the Response Documents from the receivers in the zone. The RDP process starts by creating a purge list for each receiver via step . In this step of the process the RDP module analyzes the Content List which reports the asset inventory at the receiver and compares that list to the asset inventory list for the zone. Assets in the receiver but not in the zone are not needed and are placed on the purge list.

In the second step of the RDP process the RDP module performs a zone level Missing Asset process via step wherein the RDP module analyzes the Missing Assets List section of the Response Document for each receiver and compiles the missing assets for all the receivers in the zone. The RDP module instructs the scheduler module to retransmit all the missing assets to the zone via step . This step of the RDP process is receiver centric because it is based solely on the Missing Assets Lists generated by the receivers .

In the third step of the RDP process the RDP module performs zone level Delivered Files Log processing via step . Here the Delivered Files Log is analyzed from the perspective of the zone. In other words the RDP module examines the files received by all the receivers with received times falling within a Zone Time Window. The Zone Time Window starts when the last Zone Time Window ended and ends when the first receiver in the zone calls back to the central site . Therefore because the Zone Time Window is determined by the first call back from a receiver in the zone the Receiver Time Window i.e. the time period between call backs for a particular receiver can be slightly offset from the Zone Time Window.

The RDP module examines the Delivered Files Logs from all the receivers and compares that with the objects the central site transmitted to the zone within the Zone Time Window. The RDP module determines which objects if any need to be retransmitted to the zone keeping in mind that assets in step have already been scheduled for transmission to the zone. The RDP module compares the objects identified in step with the assets already in the retransmit queue from step via step .

By performing step the RDP module optimizes transmission efficiency to the zone because assets already in the queue in step are not retransmitted to the zone more than once. Referring now to the scheduler is instructed to retransmit to the zone those objects identified in step via step .

The fourth and final step in the RDP process involves the RDP module performing receiver level Delivered Files Log processing. In step each object in the Delivered Files Log is compared to the objects transmitted by the central site to the zone within the Receiver Time Window. In this process step the RDP module determines which if any objects to retransmit directly to the receiver keeping in mind that objects identified in steps and are already scheduled to be retransmitted to the zone. The RDP module compares the objects identified in step with those already in the retransmit queue from steps and via step .

By performing step the RDP module optimizes transmission efficiency to the receiver because objects retransmitted to the zone are not retransmitted to the receiver . In step the scheduler is instructed to retransmit to the receiver those objects identified in step . At this point the RDP process is complete and the scheduler retransmits the objects to the zone and to the receivers via step .

By analyzing the objects missing and not received from the zone and receiver levels the RDP module can ensure that all the receivers in a zone receive the appropriate assets and command files in a timely manner. Moreover the four step RDP process ensures that assets already slated for retransmission will not be transmitted more than once to the zone multicast or to an individual receiver uni cast . Thus processing time in the central site is minimized and transmission resources are optimized. In addition the present invention enables efficient object retransmission in an asynchronous environment without a continuous network connection thereby offering reliable object transmission without heavier network investment.

Through the RDP module of the present invention Response Documents generated by the receivers and provided back to the central site in an asynchronous environment are analyzed to determine whether object retransmission is necessary. Once the RDP module identifies objects which should have been but were not received by on or more receivers in a zone the RDP module ensures that the objects will be retransmitted to the receivers either through a multicast to the zone or directly. In this manner the efficient retransmission of objects to the receivers is achieved.

Although the present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and those variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

