---

title: Bore elevation and azimuth measuring apparatus and method
abstract: A method for measuring the azimuth and elevation of the axis of a tube of other apparatus uses a centering mandrel inserted in the tube. The centering mandrel has a laser fixed to one end. The laser beam is aligned with the bore axis of the tube. A pair of optical instruments view two points on the laser beam. Using the optical instruments, horizontal and vertical angles from one optical instrument to the other, and vice versa, are measured. Also, horizontal and vertical angles from each optical instrument to each of the two points are measured. Using the three sets of measured angles, the azimuth and the elevation of the bore axis are calculated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07856729&OS=07856729&RS=07856729
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07856729
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080807
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 954 887 filed on Aug. 9 2007 which application is hereby incorporated by reference. This application is related to application Ser. No. 12 055 533 filed on Mar. 26 2008 entitled Azimuth Measuring Apparatus and Method having the same assignee as this application.

The invention relates in general to measuring devices and in particular to devices for measuring the elevation and azimuth of a tube such as a gun tube.

Verifying the pointing accuracy of an artillery cannon mortar tube or other equipment in an engineering environment has been and continues to be a problem. A theodolite has been used to measure the azimuth of an artillery cannon mortar tube or other equipment. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 626 issued on Jul. 6 1993 to Bowers discloses another arrangement for measuring the azimuth of a tube.

Shortcomings of these approaches are the inability to quantify or calibrate the apparatus and to establish or remove bias from the measurement. Additionally the use of a single optical instrument such as a theodolite to align to a projection of a tube axis is a subjective process and highly dependent upon the skill of the theodolite operator. Further the prior devices may measure azimuth but not elevation angle.

One aspect of the invention is an apparatus for measuring the azimuth and elevation of a tube. The apparatus may include a centering mandrel having a longitudinal axis and a laser fixed to the centering mandrel and aligned therewith. The centering mandrel may include at least one lobe assembly. The at least one lobe assembly may comprise at least three lobes. At least one lobe may include a resilient member for contacting the tube. At least two lobes may include non marring portions for contacting the tube.

The apparatus may further include a support member fixed at one end to the centering mandrel and at another end to the laser. The longitudinal axis of the support member may be substantially coincident with the longitudinal axis of the centering mandrel. A second support member may be fixed at one end to the centering mandrel and a third support member may be fixed at one end to another end of the second support member.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for measuring the azimuth and elevation of a tube. The method may include inserting the apparatus described above into the tube projecting a laser beam that is parallel or coaxial with the bore axis of the tube viewing first and second points of the laser beam using a pair of optical instruments measuring horizontal and vertical angles from one optical instrument to the other and vice versa measuring horizontal and vertical angles from each optical instrument to each of the first and second points respectively and calculating the azimuth and the elevation of the bore axis based on the measured angles.

The method may include calibrating the apparatus. Calibrating may include aligning a laser aperture with the bore axis and aligning the laser beam with the bore axis.

It is an object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for measuring the azimuth and elevation of a tube.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention is useful for example for measuring the azimuth and or elevation of an artillery cannon mortar gun tube or other type of equipment whether military or civilian. The inventive apparatus may be inexpensively fabricated its calibration may be easily verified and if needed it may be re calibrated in a field environment.

Preferably a second lobe assembly is included at a location that is axially displaced from the first lobe assembly to thereby maintain the axis B of the mandrel coaxial with the bore axis C.

Referring to support member is fixed at one end to the centering mandrel and at another end to a laser . The longitudinal axis of the support member is substantially coaxial or coincident with the longitudinal axis B of the centering mandrel . In one embodiment the end of support member may include a threaded portion that threads into an opening not shown in the base of laser .

The openings in member for fasteners may be slots such that member may be moved in two mutually orthogonal axes with respect to mandrel . is a side view of end of member showing exemplary openings . Openings allow movement of the shaft portion of fasteners along the axis B of the mandrel and more limited movement along axis D which is perpendicular to axis B. Fasteners may be capscrews and may include flat washers and lock washers not shown . The flat washer allows the fastener head to bridge the slot and the lock washer helps hold the fastener in place during the adjustment process.

Referring again to a third support member is fixed at one end to an end of the second support member . The third support member includes an opening that fits around the laser aperture of laser . The third support member is adjustable with respect to the second support member in two orthogonal axes. Support member is fixed to support member using fasteners for example threaded bolts that bolt into openings not shown in the end of member . The opening in member for fasteners may be a slot such that member may be moved in two mutually orthogonal axes with respect to member .

Preferably the centering mandrel includes a handle for rotating the apparatus . Handle may comprise a rod that extends through an opening in mandrel and an opening in member .

Many types of lasers may be suitable for use in apparatus . An example of a suitable laser is the Laser Boresight System manufactured by Insight Technology Incorporated Londonderry N.H. Laser may include laser beam adjustments for adjusting the laser beam in two mutually orthogonal axes. The laser beam adjustments may be integral with the laser .

To calibrate the apparatus the mandrel is inserted in the bore of a tube or fixture. The tube may be but not need be the tube for which it is desired to measure the elevation and azimuth. Mandrel may be inserted into bore until handle is near the end of tube . The action of the resilient members on the lobe assemblies will align the axis B of the mandrel with the axis C of the bore . The laser is then mechanically adjusted so that the laser housing is aligned with the axis B of the mandrel and therefore the axis C of the bore .

Laser may be mechanically adjusted by centering the laser aperture on the axis C of bore . A dial indicator not shown or similar instrument may be used in a known manner to measure the run out of the laser aperture as the apparatus in rotated in tube using handle . Apparatus may be rotated in 180 degree increments. Adjustments may be made to the position of laser in two axes that are orthogonal to the axis C of the bore until the run out of the laser aperture is substantially zero.

The adjustments may be made by loosening fasteners and moving support member along axes R and G . Adjustments may also be made by loosening fasteners and moving support member along axis D . Movement of support member along axis D and movement of support member along axis R is generally movement in the vertical direction but member may provide finer control of motion. Movement of support member along axis B may be needed to ensure that laser is tightly encased between support member and support member .

The above described adjustments align the laser aperture with the axis C of the bore . The laser beam itself must also be aligned. Referring to the laser beam may be imaged on any convenient reflective surface that will serve as a screen. The center I of the first laser spot is noted. The apparatus is then rotated in the tube or fixture 180 degrees and the center J of the second laser spot is noted. Any motion of the laser spot may be offset by adjusting the two angular controls on the laser .

The controls are used to move the laser half the distance from the second spot J location to the first spot I location. For example in the controls may used to move the laser horizontally to the left a distance of b 2 and vertically downward a distance of c 2. This process may be repeated until there is no apparent motion of the laser spot at which time the laser beam will be coaxial with the axis C of tube . To accurately determine the first and second positions of the laser spot an optical instrument for example a theodolite may be used.

Alignment of the laser beam may be verified by moving the reflective surface to another location along the laser beam and repeating the process. It may be possible that if the laser aperture is not centered on the apparatus some laser beam motion will always be observed. In that case the relative motion of the laser spot will be substantially the same at any two distances indicating that the laser beam is parallel to the axis C of the tube . This is an acceptable condition.

Now that the apparatus is calibrated it may be used to measure the azimuth and elevation of tube or it may be removed from tube and inserted into another tube for which the azimuth and elevation may be measured. Referring to with the tube positioned at the azimuth and elevation of interest the laser beam extends as a projection of the bore axis C and is viewed on any convenient reflective surface at laser spot or point H. Two optical instruments for example theodolites are situated so they may directly view the laser spot H and each other. The theodolites are referenced to a common angular system such as north denoted by arrow N from which all horizontal measurements are referenced. Additionally theodolites are each referenced to the local horizontal plane using conventional methods.

At each theodolite measurements are made of the horizontal and vertical angles between the two theodolites . In addition at each theodolite measurements are made of the horizontal and vertical angles between the theodolite and the laser point H along lines K and L respectively. The reflective surface is then placed at a second location which may be further or closer along the laser beam path than the first location. In the second location is further away from the laser than the first location.

At the second location the laser beam makes a spot or point M on screen . Horizontal and vertical angular measurements of spot M are made from theodolites along lines O P respectively. There are three sets of angular data. They are 1 the horizontal and vertical angles of the theodolites measured to each other 2 the horizontal and vertical angles measured from each theodolite to point H and 3 the horizontal and vertical angles measured from each theodolite to point M. From these three sets of angular data one may compute three dimensional positions of the points H and M referenced to an orthogonal coordinate system in which the reference direction N and the horizontal are the principal axes and having dimensions that are proportional to the horizontal distance between the theodolites .

Once the three dimensional coordinates of points H and M are known one may compute the azimuth of the line H M between points H and M relative to reference direction N. One may also compute the vertical angle of line H M relative to the horizontal. Because line H M is a projection of the bore axis C the azimuth and vertical angle of the line H M is also the azimuth and vertical angle of the tube . The computations may be performed manually or automated via a spreadsheet or computer program.

In addition if the two theodolites are used to measure the position of two points separated by a known distance then the three dimensional coordinates may be scaled using the known distance between the two points. All other measurements may also be scaled by this same known distance. Therefore it becomes possible to compute the distance between any two points measured. Furthermore if a measurement is made to a single known geodetic survey point the location of the single known geodetic survey point relative to the theodolite s coordinate system may be computed. Then all points may be further scaled into a real world coordinate system.

Should there be doubt as to the accuracy of the calibration of the apparatus an additional measurement technique may be used. The apparatus may be rotated in the tube 180 degrees a second set of measurements of points H and M taken as described above and a second azimuth and elevation calculated. The average of the two calculated azimuths and the average of the two calculated elevation angles will be the actual azimuth and elevation of the bore axis C.

A method of calculating the azimuth and elevation angle will now be described. A theodolite can accurately measure horizontal and vertical angles. Typically the horizontal angle is referenced to a known standard such as north and the vertical angle is referenced to a horizontal plane. Used in optical metrology and land surveying applications for decades or even centuries a theodolite may be oriented to a known azimuth reference by means of prior survey and is a well established procedure. Modern theodolites can even provide their own internal north seeking reference. In any case the accurate emplacement and operation of a theodolite is a well established procedure and will not be explained in depth as part of this patent.

A theodolite measures a horizontal angle from a fixed reference where the measurement angle increases in a clockwise direction as viewed from above. A theodolite also measures a vertical angle where zero is directly over the instrument 90 degrees is in a level plane in front of the instrument 180 degrees is directly below the instrument and 270 degrees is in a level plane behind the instrument. These standard measurement conventions are used in the description.

A single theodolite can measure the horizontal angle and vertical angle to a specific laser point falling on a screen. The additional variable needed to define a vector is the magnitude or distance from the theodolite to the point. By use of a second theodolite the magnitude of the distance from the first theodolite to the laser point may be determined in terms of an angle. By using the opposing theodolite to establish the magnitude a vector from each theodolite to any point may be established. Once this vector is established as for any vector it can be resolved into x y and z components in a three dimensional coordinate system.

By making the same type of theodolite measurements to another point falling on a screen at another location along the laser beam another set of x y and z points may be established. These two sets of three dimensional coordinates establish a vector in itself along the laser beam from one point to another. From the two sets of three dimensional coordinates the azimuth and elevation of that vector and therefore the azimuth and elevation of the bore may be determined. Many mathematical methods may be used to determine these vectors. A straightforward approach will be presented herein. As a labeling convention all horizontal angles will be designated by an H vertical angles by a V distances by a D and the two theodolites shall be referenced as T and T respectively.

As shown in angle A is equal to HTPn minus HTT and angle E is equal to HTT minus HTPn. Angle F is therefore equal to 180 degrees minus angle A minus angle E. Because the three interior angles are now established the Law of Sine s may be used to establish the relative magnitude of each of the sides of the triangle. Because the distance between the theodolites DTT is a constant it is assigned the value of unity and all subsequent distances that are derived are scaled to DTT.

From the Law of Sine s a SIN A e SIN E f SIN F . Therefore e 1 SIN F SIN E and a 1 SIN F SIN A . Thus the relative magnitude of all sides of the triangle are known. Because the angles are measured from north reference the vector e from theodolite T to point Pn can be resolved into components along the north south and east west axes namely e COS HTPn and e SIN HTPn respectively. Additionally by a similar process not shown in the x and y components of the vector between T and T may be established and the components of vector a may also be computed. When those two sets of components are combined they result in the same x y position for point Pn as computed from vector e thus providing an indication of the accuracy of the angular measurements.

To establish the three dimensional position of point Pn the vertical angles measured by the theodolites T T need to be evaluated. is a perspective schematic view of the theodolites T and T of . In T is at a higher altitude than T. From the vertical position of Pn on the z axis is computed as the magnitude of vector e multiplied by the tangent of the vertical angle from T to Pn or z e TAN VTPn . Keep in mind that when looking in a horizontal plane the theodolite will indicate 90 degrees or 270 degrees and the appropriate value must be subtracted from the measurement to get the true angle above or below the horizontal plane.

After determining the x y and z coordinates for two points P and P along the path of the laser beam the azimuth and elevation of the line they define may be computed. This is a simple matter of converting a vector quantity from a Cartesian to polar coordinate system. illustrates the conversion from Cartesian coordinates to polar coordinates. The magnitude of the distance between the points P and P is the square root of the sum of the squares of the delta values or DPP SQRT Delta x Delta y Delta z . The azimuth of the line PP is the arctangent of the delta x and delta y values or ATN Delta y Delta x . The elevation angle is computed by taking the arctangent of the delta z value divided by the magnitude of the vector in the horizontal plane or ATN Delta z SQRT Delta x Delta y .

As previously mentioned because the distance from theodolite T to theodolite T is a constant and assumed to be unity the x y and z coordinates of any point Pn are scaled proportionally to that distance. However by making measurements of two points P and P that are a known distance apart one may compute a scale constant. The scale constant is equal to the known fixed distance divided by the computed P to P distance. When the scale factor is applied to subsequent Pn measurements the x y and z coordinates may be output in the measured unit for example inches feet meters etc.

Additionally theodolites T and T may be used to measure angles for a point Pn for which survey data is known such as an Easting Northing and Altitude. The computed x y and z coordinate information for the initial point Pn may be applied as offsets to the measurements of other points. In that case the subsequent x y and z coordinates are output in terms of Easting Northing and Altitude.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

