---

title: Antibodies, including FV molecules, and immunoconjugates having high binding affinity for mesothelin and methods for their use
abstract: Mesothelin is a differentiation antigen present on the surface of ovarian cancers, mesotheliomas and several other types of human cancers. Because among normal tissues, mesothelin is only present on mesothelial cells, it represents a good target for antibody mediated delivery of cytotoxic agents. The present invention is directed to anti-mesothelin antibodies, including Fv molecules with particularly high affinity for mesothelin, and immunoconjugates employing them. Also described are diagnostic and therapeutic methods using the antibodies. The anti-mesothelin antibodies are well-suited for the diagnosis and treatment of cancers of the ovary, stomach, squamous cells, mesotheliomas and other malignant cells expressing mesothelin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07709252&OS=07709252&RS=07709252
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of Health and Human Services
number: 07709252
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080325
---
This application is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 973 718 filed Oct. 25 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 368 110 which is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 581 345 filed Sep. 27 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 809 184 which is in turn a U.S. national phase filing of International Patent Application No. PCT US98 25270 filed Nov. 25 1998 claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 067 175 filed Dec. 1 1997. Each of these referenced applications and patents is hereby incorporated by reference.

In many types of cancer cells differentiation antigens are expressed. These antigens have been used as targets in cancer therapy. For example CD19 CD20 CD22 and CD25 have successfully been used as targets in hematopoietic malignancies Press et al. 329 1219 1224 1993 and Osterborg et al. 15 1567 1574 1997 . However this targeted cancer therapy has not been successful with solid tumors in large part because the targeted antigens are also expressed in tissues from which the tumors arose. Thus such targeted therapies kill healthy cells as well as the malignant cells.

In the United States despite therapy an estimated 15 000 women die of ovarian cancer each year. Although less common than ovarian cancer mesotheliomas are known to be resistant to all chemotherapeutic agents and therefore have a high mortality rate. Because of the morbidity of these cancers new therapeutic approaches to these malignancies are needed.

Common to ovarian squamous cell and some stomach cancers as well as mesotheliomas is the expression of mesothelin on the cell surface Chang et al. 52 181 186 1992 Chang et al. 16 259 268 1992 and Chang et al. 93 136 140 1996 . Mesothelin is a 40 kD GPI linked glycoprotein antigen present on the surface of mesothelial cells. It is synthesized as a 69 kD precursor which is then proteolytically processed. The 30 kD amino terminus is secreted and has been termed megakaryocyte potentiating factor Yamaguchi et al. 269 805 808 1994 . The 40 kcarboxyl terminus remains bound to the membrane as mature mesothelin Chang et al. 93 136 140 1996 . Unlike many cell surface antigens present on cancer cells the membrane bound form of mesothelin cannot be detected in the blood of cancer patients and is not shed by cultured cells into medium Chang et al. 52 181 186 1992 . In addition to malignant cells mesothelin is also found on the cell surface of cells of mesothelial origin including ovarian cancers. Because damage to cells in these tissues would not lead to life threatening consequences the presence of mesothelin on the surface of cancer cells makes it a promising candidate for targeted therapies.

Immunotoxins are antibodies directed against cell surface antigens joined to a toxic moiety. In the treatment of cancer the antibody preferably is directed against a cell surface antigen expresser only on cancer cells. However if the death of normal cells which also express the surface antigen is not more life threatening than the existence of the malignancy antibodies directed against cell surface antigens expressed on non malignant cells can be used in cancer therapy. The toxic moiety of the immunotoxin can be any toxin that is not harmful to non targeted cells at low concentrations after systemic administration. Such a toxin is the exotoxin PE . Previous studies with PE have demonstrated that the active portion of the protein is composed of domain II and III both of which are located at the carboxyl end of the toxin.

The antibodies that target the immunotoxin can be polyclonal monoclonal or recombinant antibodies such as chimeras or variable region fragments. If the antibody is non recombinant the immunotoxin must be formed by chemical conjugation of the antibody to the toxic moiety. If the antibody is produced recombinantly the antibody can be joined to the toxin through chemical bonding or through recombinant fusion. In recombinant fusion cDNA encoding the antibody is inserted in frame into a plasmid that already contains cDNA which encodes the toxin. Of course the reverse could be done as well the toxin cDNA can be inserted into a plasmid carrying cDNA which encodes the antibody.

Because of the potential large size of the immunotoxin it is sometimes desired to join only a fragment of an antibody to the toxic moiety. Fab Fab and F ab fragments can be made from polyclonal monoclonal and chimeric antibodies and then joined to the toxin through chemical bonding.

Alternatively a cDNA can be produced in which the variable regions of an antibody are connected to essential framework regions. These smaller antibodies are then secreted as double chain Fv antibodies or if the heavy and light chain regions are joined either directly or through a peptide linker as single chain Fv antibodies scFv .

One method of creating a scFv is through phage display libraries made from splenic mRNA of mice immunized with an immunogen Chowdhury et al. 34 9 20 1997 . However if a protein immunogen is naturally found in mammals but is recombinantly expressed in prokaryotes the protein will not have the correct glycosylation pattern and may not have the correct conformation. Antibodies developed by the mouse in response to this immunogen may not recognize the protein in its native state. One solution to this problem is to immunize animals with the native protein made in mammalian cells but purification from mammalian cells of sufficient amounts of some proteins in particular cell surface proteins may not be possible. Another solution although not as common is to immunize animals with cDNA which encodes the immunogen. The cDNA under the control of an appropriate promoter is introduced into the animal. After boosting injections and when the antibody titer reaches a maximum the animals are sacrificed and the spleens removed to create the phage display library.

There is a need for better chemotherapeutic agents to control cancers such as ovarian cancer and mesotheliomas both of which are rarely cured by currently available chemotherapies. The following disclosure describes such a chemotherapeutic agent.

In one aspect the present invention relates to an anti mesothelin antibody with a dissociation constant of less than 3 10M and which specifically binds to mesothelin on the surface of cells. In one embodiment the anti mesothelin antibodies are a single chain antibody comprising a variable heavy chain region and a variable light chain region. In yet other embodiments the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In other embodiments the antibody is linked to an effector molecule for example a detectable label or a therapeutic agent. In one embodiment the therapeutic agent is a toxin preferably exotoxin A or cytotoxic fragments thereof.

In another embodiment of the invention the antibody is produced by immunizing an animal with cDNA which encodes mesothelin preparing a phage display library from the mRNA isolated from the spleen of the immunized animal selecting for phage that specifically bind mesothelin with a dissociation constant of less than 3 10M and which binds to mesothelin expressed on the surface of cells isolating the nucleic acid from the bound phage introducing the nucleic acid into a cell which expresses the phage derived mesothelin antibody and isolating the antibody from the cell. It further is contemplated that the nucleic acid sequences which encode the anti mesothelin antibody are fused in frame to nucleic acid sequences which encode for the toxic moiety.

In another aspect the present invention relates to an immunoconjugate of an anti mesothelin antibody with a dissociation constant of less than 3 10M and which specifically binds to mesothelin on the surface of cells and a therapeutic agent or a detectable label. In one embodiment the anti mesothelin antibody is a single chain antibody comprising a variable heavy chain region and a variable light chain region. In other embodiments the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In yet another embodiment the variable heavy chain region and the variable light chain region are bonded through a linker peptide. In other embodiments the therapeutic agent is a toxin preferably exotoxin A or cytotoxic fragments thereof. Particularly preferred is PE38. In yet other embodiments the variable heavy chain region of the antibody is peptide bonded to the carboxyl terminus of the therapeutic agent or detectable label.

In another aspect the present invention relates to expression cassettes encoding either a recombinant anti mesothelin immunoconjugate or a recombinant anti mesothelin antibody. In some embodiments the antibody is a single chain Fv antibody comprising a variable heavy chain region and a variable light chain region. In yet other embodiments the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In some embodiments the immunoconjugate comprises a detectable label. In other embodiments the anti mesothelin antibody is bonded to a therapeutic agent preferably a toxin and more preferably a exotoxin A or cytotoxic fragments thereof and most preferably PE38.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to host cells comprising expression cassettes which encode recombinant immunoconjugates or anti mesothelin antibodies. In some embodiments the host cells comprise an anti mesothelin single chain Fv antibody comprising a variable heavy chain region and a variable light chain region. In yet other embodiments the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In further embodiments the variable heavy chain region and the variable light chain region are linked through a peptide linker. The immunoconjugate comprises either a detectable label or a therapeutic agent bonded to an anti mesothelin scFv fragment. In preferred embodiments the therapeutic agent is a toxin more preferably exotoxin A or cytotoxic fragments thereof and most preferably PE38.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to a method for inhibiting the growth of a malignant cell which expresses mesothelin on its cell surface. The method comprises the steps of contacting the malignant cell with an effective amount of a recombinant immunoconjugate comprising a toxic peptide bonded to an anti mesothelin antibody which has a dissociation constant of less than 3 10M and binds to mesothelin expressed on cell surfaces. In one embodiment the anti mesothelin antibody is a scFv antibody with a variable heavy chain region and a variable light chain region. In another embodiment the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In yet other embodiments the variable heavy chain region and the variable light chain region are linked by a peptide linker. In some embodiments the toxic peptide is exotoxin PE or a cytotoxic fragment thereof preferably PE38. In one embodiment the variable heavy chain region is peptide bonded at the carboxyl terminus of the toxin. In some embodiments the malignant cell is contacted with the immunoconjugate in vivo. The malignant cell for example can be an ovarian squamous gastric cell or a mesothelioma.

In a further aspect the present invention is directed to a method for detecting the presence of mesothelin in a biological sample. The method comprises the steps of contacting the biological sample with an anti mesothelin antibody which has a dissociation constant of less than 3 10M and binds to mesothelin expressed on cell surfaces and allowing the antibody to bind to mesothelin under immunologically reactive conditions wherein detection of the bound antibody indicates the presence of the mesothelin. In one embodiment the antibody is a scFv fragment comprising a variable heavy V region and a variable light V region. In yet other embodiments the CDRs of the antibody are as indicated in . In another embodiment the Vregion and the Vregion are linked through a peptide linker. In one embodiment the antibody employed in the method is detectably labeled. In yet other embodiments the antibody is conjugated to a toxic peptide and the presence of the immunoconjugate is detected by antibodies to the toxic peptide. In some embodiments the method is performed in vivo in a mammal.

In yet a further aspect the present invention is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising the immunoconjugates of this invention. In another aspect the present invention is directed to kits which can be used to detect mesothelin on cell surfaces.

The present invention provides antibodies and immunoconjugates preferably immunotoxins IT more preferably with exotoxin A or cytotoxic fragments thereof as the toxic moiety and most preferably with PE38 as the toxic moiety joined to an anti mesothelin antibody more preferably an Fv antibody and most preferably a scFv antibody.

In a preferred embodiment the antibody is a scFv. Many of the recombinant immunotoxins produced from constructs of scFv are one third the size of IgG toxin chemical conjugates and are homogeneous in composition. Elimination of the constant portion of the IgG molecule from the scFv results in faster clearance of the immunotoxin after injection into animals including primates and the smaller size of the conjugates improves drug penetration in solid tumors. Together these properties lessen the side effects associated with the toxic moiety by reducing the time in which the immunotoxin IT interacts with non target tissues and tissues that express very low levels of antigen.

Previous attempts to immunize mice with recombinant mesothelin resulted in antibodies that bound specifically to mesothelin on the surface of cells but with low affinity. When animals were immunized with an expression plasmid comprising cDNA which encodes human mesothelin antibodies which bound to cell surface mesothelin with surprisingly high affinity were obtained. It was found that multiple injections of cDNA were instrumental in achieving these unusually high titers. The difficulties in obtaining high affinity antibodies directed against mesothelin the surprising activity of the antibodies towards cell surface mesothelin and the unique pharmacological properties afforded by the immunotoxins of the present invention make them highly effective therapeutic agents for treatment of cancers of the ovary stomach squamous cell cancers mesotheliomas and other malignant cells which express mesothelin.

Units prefixes and symbols are denoted in their Syst me International de Unites SI accepted form. Numeric ranges are inclusive of the numbers defining the range. Unless otherwise indicated nucleic acids are written left to right in 5 to 3 orientation amino acid sequences are written left to right in amino to carboxy orientation. The headings provided herein are not limitations of the various aspects or embodiments of the invention which can be had by reference to the specification as a whole. Accordingly the terms defined immediately below are more fully defined by reference to the specification in its entirety.

The term mesothelin includes reference to a mesothelin protein and fragments thereof which may be present on the surface of mammalian cells of a mammal such as rats mice and primates particularly humans. The preferred nucleic acid and amino acid sequences of mesothelin are as described in PCT published application WO 97 25 068 U.S. application Ser. No. 08 776 271 and U.S. Provisional Application 60 010 166 all incorporated herein by reference. In addition see Chang K. Pastan I. 57 90 1994 Chang K. Pastan I. 93 136 1996 Brinkmann U. et al. 71 638 1997 and Chowdhury P. S. et al. 34 9 1997 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Mesothelin also refers to mesothelin proteins or peptides which remain intracellular as well as secreted and or isolated extracellular protein.

As used herein antibody includes reference to an immunoglobulin molecule immunologically reactive with a particular antigen and includes both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. The term also includes genetically engineered forms such as chimeric antibodies e.g. humanized murine antibodies heteroconjugate antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and recombinant single chain Fv fragments scFv disulfide stabilized dsFv Fv fragments See U.S. Ser. No. 08 077 252 incorporated herein by reference or pFv fragments See U.S. Provisional Patent Applications 60 042 350 and 60 048 848 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. . The term antibody also includes antigen binding forms of antibodies e.g. Fab F ab Fab Fv and rIgG. See also Pierce Catalog and Handbook 1994 1995 Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. .

An antibody immunologically reactive with a particular antigen can be generated by recombinant methods such as selection of libraries of recombinant antibodies in phage or similar vectors. See e.g. Huse et al. 246 1275 1281 1989 Ward et al. 341 544 546 1989 and Vaughan et al. 14 309 314 1996 .

Typically an immunoglobulin has a heavy and light chain. Each heavy and light chain contains a constant region and a variable region. Light and heavy chain variable regions contain a framework region interrupted by three hypervariable regions also called complementarity determining regions or CDRs. The extent of the framework region and CDRs have been defined see SOPOII Kabat E. et al. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 1987 which is incorporated herein by reference . The sequences of the framework regions of different light or heavy chains are relatively conserved within a species. The framework region of an antibody that is the combined framework regions of the constituent light and heavy chains serves to position and align the CDRs in three dimensional space. The CDRs are primarily responsible for binding to an epitope of an antigen. The CDRs are typically referred to as CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 numbered sequentially starting from the N terminus.

The phrase single chain Fv or scFv refers to an antibody in which the heavy chain and the light chain of a traditional two chain antibody have been joined to form one chain. Typically a linker peptide is inserted between the two chains to allow for proper folding and creation of an active binding site.

The term linker peptide includes reference to a peptide within an antibody binding fragment e.g. Fv fragment which serves to indirectly bond the variable heavy chain to the variable light chain.

The term contacting includes reference to placement in direct physical association. With regards to this invention the term refers to antibody antigen binding.

As used herein the term anti mesothelin in reference to an antibody includes reference to an antibody which is generated against mesothelin. In preferred embodiments the mesothelin is a primate mesothelin such as human mesothelin. In a particularly preferred embodiment the antibody is generated against human mesothelin synthesized by a non primate mammal after introduction into the animal of cDNA which encodes human mesothelin.

As used herein polypeptide peptide and protein are used interchangeably and include reference to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical analogue of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers. The terms also apply to polymers containing conservative amino acid substitutions such that the protein remains functional.

The term residue or amino acid residue or amino acid includes reference to an amino acid that is incorporated into a protein polypeptide or peptide collectively peptide . The amino acid can be a naturally occurring amino acid and unless otherwise limited can encompass known analogs of natural amino acids that can function in a similar manner as naturally occurring amino acids.

The amino acids and analogs referred to herein are described by shorthand designations as follows in Table 1 

A conservative substitution when describing a protein refers to a change in the amino acid composition of the protein that does not substantially alter the protein s activity. Thus conservatively modified variations of a particular amino acid sequence refers to amino acid substitutions of those amino acids that are not critical for protein activity or substitution of amino acids with other amino acids having similar properties e.g. acidic basic positively or negatively charged polar or non polar etc. such that the substitutions of even critical amino acids do not substantially alter activity. Conservative substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are well known in the art. The following six groups in Table 2 each contain amino acids that are conservative substitutions for one another 

The terms substantially similar in the context of a peptide indicates that a peptide comprises a sequence with at least 90 preferably at least 95 sequence identity to the reference sequence over a comparison window of 10 20 amino acids. Percentage of sequence identity is determined by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window wherein the portion of the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps as compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base or amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

The phrase disulfide bond or cysteine cysteine disulfide bond refers to a covalent interaction between two cysteines in which the sulfur atoms of the cysteines are oxidized to form a disulfide bond. The average bond energy of a disulfide bond is about 60 kcal mol compared to 1 2 kcal mol for a hydrogen bond. In the context of this invention the cysteines which form the disulfide bond are within the framework regions of the single chain antibody and serve to stabilize the conformation of the antibody.

The terms conjugating joining bonding or linking refer to making two polypeptides into one contiguous polypeptide molecule. In the context of the present invention the terms include reference to joining an antibody moiety to an effector molecule EM . The linkage can be either by chemical or recombinant means. Chemical means refers to a reaction between the antibody moiety and the effector molecule such that there is a covalent bond formed between the two molecules to form one molecule.

As used herein recombinant includes reference to a protein produced using cells that do not have in their native state an endogenous copy of the DNA able to express the protein. The cells produce the recombinant protein because they have been genetically altered by the introduction of the appropriate isolated nucleic acid sequence. The term also includes reference to a cell or nucleic acid or vector that has been modified by the introduction of a heterologous nucleic acid or the alteration of a native nucleic acid to a form not native to that cell or that the cell is derived from a cell so modified. Thus for example recombinant cells express genes that are not found within the native non recombinant form of the cell express mutants of genes that are found within the native form or express native genes that are otherwise abnormally expressed under expressed or not expressed at all.

As used herein nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence includes reference to a deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide polymer in either single or double stranded form and unless otherwise limited encompasses known analogues of natural nucleotides that hybridize to nucleic acids in a manner similar to naturally occurring nucleotides. Unless otherwise indicated a particular nucleic acid sequence includes the complementary sequence thereof as well as conservative variants i.e. nucleic acids present in wobble positions of codons and variants that when translated into a protein result in a conservative substitution of an amino acid.

As used herein encoding with respect to a specified nucleic acid includes reference to nucleic acids which comprise the information for translation into the specified protein. The information is specified by the use of codons. Typically the amino acid sequence is encoded by the nucleic acid using the universal genetic code. However variants of the universal code such as is present in some plant animal and fungal mitochondria the bacterium 82 2306 2309 1985 or the ciliate may be used when the nucleic acid is expressed in using the translational machinery of these organisms.

The phrase fusing in frame refers to joining two or more nucleic acid sequences which encode polypeptides so that the joined nucleic acid sequence translates into a single chain protein which comprises the original polypeptide chains.

As used herein expressed includes reference to translation of a nucleic acid into a protein. Proteins may be expressed and remain intracellular become a component of the cell surface membrane or be secreted into the extracellular matrix or medium.

By host cell is meant a cell which can support the replication or expression of the expression vector. Host cells may be prokaryotic cells such as or eukaryotic cells such as yeast insect amphibian or mammalian cells.

The phrase phage display library refers to a population of bacteriophage each of which contains a foreign cDNA recombinantly fused in frame to a surface protein. The phage displays the foreign protein encoded by the cDNA on its surface. After replication in a bacterial host typically the phage which contain the foreign cDNA of interest are selected by the expression of the foreign protein on the phage surface.

 Sequence identity in the context of two nucleic acid or polypeptide sequences includes reference to the nucleotides or residues in the two sequences which are the same when aligned for maximum correspondence over a specified comparison window. When percentage of sequence identity is used in reference to proteins it is recognized that residue positions which are not identical often differ by conservative amino acid substitutions where amino acid residues are substituted for other amino acid residues with similar chemical properties e.g. charge or hydrophobicity and therefore do not change the functional properties of the molecule. Where sequences differ in conservative substitutions the percent sequence identity may be adjusted upwards to correct for the conservative nature of the substitution. Means for making this adjustment are well known to those of skill in the art. Typically this involves scoring a conservative substitution as a partial rather than a full mismatch thereby increasing the percentage sequence identity. Thus for example where an identical amino acid is given a score of 1 and a non conservative substitution is given a score of zero a conservative substitution is given a score between zero and 1. The scoring of conservative substitutions is calculated e.g. according to the algorithm of Meyers Miller 4 11 17 1988 e.g. as implemented in the program PC GENE Intelligenetics Mountain View Calif. USA . An indication that two peptide sequences are substantially similar is that one peptide is immunologically reactive with antibodies raised against the second peptide. Thus a peptide is substantially similar to a second peptide for example where the two peptides differ only by a conservative substitution.

A comparison window as used herein includes reference to a segment of about 10 20 residues in which a sequence may be compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned. Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by the local homology algorithm of Smith Waterman 2 482 1981 by the homology alignment algorithm of Needleman Wunsch 48 443 1970 by the search for similarity method of Pearson Lipman 85 2444 1988 by computerized implementations of these algorithms including but not limited to CLUSTAL in the PC Gene program by Intelligenetics Mountain View Calif. GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG Madison Wis. USA the CLUSTAL program is well described by Higgins Sharp 73 237 244 1988 and Higgins Sharp 5 151 153 1989 Corpet et al. 16 10881 90 1988 Huang et al. 8 155 65 1992 and Pearson et al. 24 307 31 1994 .

The terms effective amount or amount effective to or therapeutically effective amount include reference to a dosage of a therapeutic agent sufficient to produce a desired result such as inhibiting cell protein synthesis by at least 50 or killing the cell.

The term therapeutic agent includes any number of compounds currently known or later developed to act as anti neoplastics anti inflammatories cytokines anti infectives enzyme activators or inhibitors allosteric modifiers antibiotics or other agents administered to induce a desired therapeutic effect in a patient.

The term immunoconjugate includes reference to a covalent linkage of an effector molecule to an antibody. The effector molecule can be an immunotoxin.

The term toxin includes reference to abrin ricin exotoxin PE diphtheria toxin DT botulinum toxin or modified toxins thereof. For example PE and DT are highly toxic compounds that typically bring about death through liver toxicity. PE and DT however can be modified into a form for use as an immunotoxin by removing the native targeting component of the toxin e.g. domain Ia of PE and the B chain of DT and replacing it with a different targeting moiety such as an antibody.

The term in vivo includes reference to inside the body of the organism from which the cell was obtained. Ex vivo and in vitro means outside the body of the organism from which the cell was obtained.

The phrase malignant cell or malignancy refers to tumors or tumor cells that are invasive and or able to undergo metastasis i.e. a cancerous cell.

As used herein mammalian cells includes reference to cells derived from mammals including humans rats mice guinea pigs chimpanzees or macaques. The cells may be cultured in vivo or in vitro.

The present invention provides for antibodies targeted to mesothelin. Mesothelin or CAKI is a protein present on cells of mesothelial origin including but not limited to ovarian stomach squamous cell cancers and mesotheliomas. The immunoconjugates disclosed below target mesothelin using antibodies of the present invention. These antibodies are selectively reactive under immunological conditions to those determinants of mesothelin displayed on the surface of mammalian cells and are accessible to the antibody from the extracellular milieu.

The term selectively reactive includes reference to the preferential association of an antibody in whole or part with a cell or tissue bearing mesothelin and not to cells or tissues lacking mesothelin. It is of course recognized that a certain degree of non specific interaction may occur between a molecule and a non target cell or tissue. Nevertheless selective reactivity may be distinguished as mediated through specific recognition of mesothelin. Although selectively reactive antibodies bind antigen they may do so with low affinity. On the other hand specific binding results in a much stronger association between the antibody and cells bearing mesothelin than between the bound antibody and cells lacking mesothelin or low affinity antibody antigen binding. Specific binding typically results in greater than 2 fold preferably greater than 5 fold more preferably greater than 10 fold and most preferably greater than 100 fold increase in amount of bound antibody per unit time to a cell or tissue bearing mesothelin as compared to a cell or tissue lacking mesothelin. Specific binding to a protein under such conditions requires an antibody that is selected for its specificity for a particular protein. A variety of immunoassay formats are appropriate for selecting antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a particular protein. For example solid phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to select monoclonal antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a protein. See Harlow Lane A A LM Cold Spring Harbor Publications New York 1988 for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to determine specific immunoreactivity.

The term immunologically reactive conditions includes reference to conditions which allow an antibody generated to a particular epitope to bind to that epitope to a detectably greater degree than and or to the substantial exclusion of binding to substantially all other epitopes. Immunologically reactive conditions are dependent upon the format of the antibody binding reaction and typically are those utilized in immunoassay protocols or those conditions encountered in vivo. See Harlow Lane supra for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions. Preferably the immunologically reactive conditions employed in the methods of the present invention are physiological conditions which include reference to conditions e.g. temperature osmolarity pH that are typical inside a living mammal or a mammalian cell. While it is recognized that some organs are subject to extreme conditions the intra organismal and intracellular environment normally lies around pH 7 i.e. from pH 6.0 to pH 8.0 more typically pH 6.5 to 7.5 contains water as the predominant solvent and exists at a temperature above 0 C. and below 50 C. Osmolarity is within the range that is supportive of cell viability and proliferation.

The anti mesothelin antibodies employed in the present invention can be linked to effector molecules EM through the EM carboxyl terminus the EM amino terminus through an interior amino acid residue of the EM such as cysteine or any combination thereof. Similarly the EM can be linked directly to the heavy light Fc constant region or framework regions of the antibody. Linkage can occur through the antibody s amino or carboxyl termini or through an interior amino acid residue. Further multiple EM molecules e.g. any one of from 2 10 can be linked to the anti mesothelin antibody and or multiple antibodies e.g. any one of from 2 5 can be linked to an EM. The antibodies used in a multivalent immunoconjugate composition of the present invention can be directed to the same or different mesothelin epitopes.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the anti mesothelin antibody is a recombinant antibody such as a scFv or disulfide stabilized Fv antibody. Fv antibodies are typically about 25 kDa and contain a complete antigen binding site with 3 CDRs per heavy and light chain. If the Vand the Vchain are expressed non contiguously the chains of the Fv antibody are typically held together by noncovalent interactions. However these chains tend to dissociate upon dilution so methods have been developed to crosslink the chains through glutaraldehyde intermolecular disulfides or a peptide linker.

In a particularly preferred embodiment the antibody is a single chain Fv scFv . The Vand the Vregions of a scFv antibody comprise a single chain which is folded to create an antigen binding site similar to that found in two chain antibodies. Once folded noncovalent interactions stabilize the single chain antibody. In a more preferred embodiment the scFv is recombinantly produced. In yet another preferred embodiment the Vregion has the amino acid sequence as shown in . In the most preferred embodiment the Vregion has the nucleic acid sequence as found in SEQ ID NO 1. In another preferred embodiment the Vregion has the amino acid sequence as found in . In a more preferred embodiment the Vregion has the nucleic acid sequence as indicated in SEQ ID NO 1. In yet a further embodiment the CDRs have the amino acid sequences as shown in . In a more preferred embodiment the CDRs have the nucleic acid sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO 1. In the most preferred embodiment the entire scFv has the nucleic acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 1. One of skill will realize that conservative variants of the antibodies of the instant invention can be made. Such conservative variants employed in scFv fragments will retain critical amino acid residues necessary for correct folding and stabilizing between the Vand the Vregions. Conservatively modified variants of the prototype sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 have at least 80 sequence similarity preferably at least 85 sequence similarity more preferably at least 90 sequence similarity and most preferably at least 95 sequence similarity at the amino acid level to its prototype sequence.

In some embodiments of the present invention the scFv antibody is directly linked to the EM through the light chain. However scFv antibodies can be linked to the EM via its amino or carboxyl terminus.

While the Vand Vregions of some antibody embodiments can be directly joined together one of skill will appreciate that the regions may be separated by a peptide linker consisting of one or more amino acids. Peptide linkers and their use are well known in the art. See e.g. Huston et al. 8 5879 1988 Bird et al. 242 4236 1988 Glockshuber et al. 29 1362 1990 U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 U.S. Pat. No. 5 132 405 and Stemmer et al. 14 256 265 1993 all incorporated herein by reference. Generally the peptide linker will have no specific biological activity other than to join the regions or to preserve some minimum distance or other spatial relationship between them. However the constituent amino acids of the peptide linker may be selected to influence some property of the molecule such as the folding net charge or hydrophobicity. Single chain Fv scFv antibodies optionally include a peptide linker of no more than 50 amino acids generally no more than 40 amino acids preferably no more than 30 amino acids and more preferably no more than 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the peptide linker is a concatamer of the sequence Gly Gly Gly Ser SEQ ID NO 7 preferably 2 3 4 5 or 6 such sequences. However it is to be appreciated that some amino acid substitutions within the linker can be made. For example a valine can be substituted for a glycine.

Methods of producing polyclonal antibodies are known to those of skill in the art. In brief an immunogen preferably isolated mesothelin or extracellular mesothelin epitopes are mixed with an adjuvant and animals are immunized with the mixture. When appropriately high titers of antibody to the immunogen are obtained blood is collected from the animal and antisera are prepared. If desired further fractionation of the antisera to enrich for antibodies reactive to the polypeptide is performed. See e.g. Coligan CPII Wiley Greene N.Y. 1991 and Harlow Lane supra which are incorporated herein by reference.

Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by various techniques familiar to those skilled in the art. Description of techniques for preparing such monoclonal antibodies may be found in e.g. Stites et al. eds. BACI 4TH ED. Lange Medical Publications Los Altos Calif. and references cited therein Harlow Lane supra Goding MA PAP 2D ED. Academic Press New York N.Y. 1986 Kohler Milstein 256 495 497 1975 and particularly Chowdhury P. S. et al. 34 9 1997 which discusses one method of generating monoclonal antibodies.

It is preferred here that monoclonal antibodies are made by immunizing an animal with a nucleic acid sequence that encodes the desired immunogen in this case mesothelin. Immunization with non replicating transcription units that encode heterologous protein s elicits antigen specific immune responses. After translation into the foreign protein the protein is processed and presented to the immune system like other cellular proteins. Because it is foreign an immune response is mounted against the protein and peptide epitopes that are derived from it Donnelly et al. 176 145 152 1994 and Boyer et al. 25 242 250 1996 . This technique has two significant advantages over protein based immunization. One is that it does not require the purification of the protein which at best is time consuming and in cases of many membrane proteins is very difficult. A second advantage is that since the immunogen is synthesized in a mammalian host it undergoes proper post translational modifications and folds into the native structure.

To immunize with mesothelin coding DNA mesothelin coding cDNA is introduced into a plasmid so that transcription of the coding sequence is under the control of a promoter such as the CMV promoter. The plasmid is then injected into an animal either subcutaneously intradermally intraperitoneally etc. As a result the mesothelin cDNA is transcribed in the animal into mRNA mesothelin is translated from the mRNA the translated protein undergoes proper posttranslational modifications and is expressed on the surface of cells which synthesized mesothelin. The animal raises antibodies to mesothelin and the sera is monitored for antibody titer.

Optionally in addition to the coding region and regulatory elements the plasmid carries an ampicillin resistance Amp gene. The Amp gene is known to have immunostimulatory sequences for Th1 responses necessary for increased antibody production Sato et al. 273 352 354 1996 .

In a particularly preferred embodiment mice are immunized intradermally with pcD3CAK1 9 which expresses mesothelin under the control of a CMV promoter Chang et al. 93 136 140 1996 . Balb c mice are particularly preferred because intradermal DNA immunization has been shown to induce strong humoral immune response in this strain Raz et al. 93 5141 5145 1996 .

As described above in preferred embodiments the monoclonal antibody is a scFv. Methods of making scFv antibodies have been described. See Huse et al. supra Ward et al. 341 544 546 1989 and Vaughan et al. supra. In brief mRNA from B cells is isolated and cDNA is prepared. The cDNA is amplified by well known techniques such as PCR with primers specific for the variable regions of heavy and light chains of immunoglobulins. The PCR products are purified by for example agarose gel electrophoresis and the nucleic acid sequences are joined. If a linker peptide is desired nucleic acid sequences that encode the peptide are inserted between the heavy and light chain nucleic acid sequences. The sequences can be joined by techniques known in the art such as blunt end ligation insertion of restriction sites at the ends of the PCR products or by splicing by overlap extension Chowdhury et al. 34 9 1997 . After amplification the nucleic acid which encodes the scFv is inserted into a vector again by techniques well known in the art. Preferably the vector is capable of replicating in prokaryotes and of being expressed in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes.

In a particularly preferred embodiment scFv are chosen through a phage display library. After antibody titers against the antigen in the immunized animal reach their maximum the animal is sacrificed and the spleen removed. The procedure described above for synthesizing scFv is followed. After amplification by PCR the scFv nucleic acid sequences are fused in frame with gene III gIII which encodes the minor surface protein gIIIp of the filamentous phage Marks et al. 267 16007 16010 1992 Marks et al. 91 6 12 1992 and Brinkmann et al. 182 41 50 1995 . The phage express the resulting fusion protein on their surface. Since the proteins on the surface of the phage are functional phage bearing mesothelin binding antibodies can be separated from non binding or lower affinity phage by panning or antigen affinity chromatography McCafferty et al. 348 552 554 1990 .

In a preferred embodiment scFv that specifically bind to mesothelin are found by panning. Panning is done by coating a solid surface with mesothelin and incubating the phage on the surface for a suitable time under suitable conditions. The unbound phage are washed off the solid surface and the bound phage are eluted. Finding the antibody with the highest affinity is dictated by the efficiency of the selection process and depends on the number of clones that can be screened and the stringency with which it is done. Typically higher stringency corresponds to more selective panning. However if the conditions are too stringent the phage will not bind. After one round of panning the phage that bind to mesothelin coated plates are expanded in and subjected to another round of panning. In this way an enrichment of 2000 fold occurs in 3 rounds of panning. Thus even when enrichment in each round is low multiple rounds of panning will lead to the isolation of rare phage and the genetic material contained within which encodes the sequence of the highest affinity antibody. The physical link between genotype and phenotype provided by phage display makes it possible to test every member of a cDNA library for binding to antigen even with libraries as large as 100 000 000 clones.

The antibodies of this invention specifically bind to an extracellular epitope of mesothelin. An anti mesothelin antibody has binding affinity for mesothelin if the antibody binds or is capable of binding mesothelin as measured or determined by standard antibody antigen assays for example competitive assays saturation assays or standard immunoassays such as ELISA or RIA.

Such assays can be used to determine the dissociation constant of the antibody. The phrase dissociation constant refers to the affinity of an antibody for an antigen. Specificity of binding between an antibody and an antigen exists if the dissociation constant k 1 K where K is the affinity constant of the antibody is 

The antibodies can be detected and or quantified using any of a number of well recognized immunological binding assays see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 366 241 4 376 110 4 517 288 and 4 837 168 . For a review of the general immunoassays see also MICB V37 Asai ed. Academic Press Inc. New York 1993 BACI7E Stites Terr eds. 1991 . Immunological binding assays or immunoassays typically utilize a ligand e.g. mesothelin to specifically bind to and often immobilize an antibody. The antibodies employed in immunoassays of the present invention are discussed in greater detail supra.

Immunoassays also often utilize a labeling agent to specifically bind to and label the binding complex formed by the ligand and the antibody. The labeling agent may itself be one of the moieties comprising the antibody analyte complex i.e. the antimesothelin antibody. Alternatively the labeling agent may be a third moiety such as another antibody that specifically binds to the antibody mesothelin protein complex.

In one aspect a competitive assay is contemplated wherein the labeling agent is a second anti mesothelin antibody bearing a label. The two antibodies then compete for binding to the immobilized mesothelin. Alternatively in a non competitive format the mesothelin antibody lacks a label but a second antibody specific to antibodies of the species from which the anti mesothelin antibody is derived e.g. murine and which binds the antimesothelin antibody is labeled.

Other proteins capable of specifically binding immunoglobulin constant regions such as Protein A or Protein G may also be used as the label agent. These proteins are normal constituents of the cell walls of streptococcal bacteria. They exhibit a strong non immunogenic reactivity with immunoglobulin constant regions from a variety of species see generally Kronval et al. 111 1401 1406 1973 and Akerstrom et al. 135 2589 2542 1985 .

Throughout the assays incubation and or washing steps may be required after each combination of reagents. Incubation steps can vary from about 5 seconds to several hours preferably from about 5 minutes to about 24 hours. However the incubation time will depend upon the assay format antibody volume of solution concentrations and the like. Usually the assays will be carried out at ambient temperature although they can be conducted over a range of temperatures such as 10 C. to 40 C.

While the details of the immunoassays of the present invention may vary with the particular format employed the method of detecting anti mesothelin antibodies in a sample containing the antibodies generally comprises the steps of contacting the sample with an antibody which specifically reacts under immunologically reactive conditions to the mesothelin antibody complex.

Immunoconjugates include but are not limited to molecules in which there is a covalent linkage of a therapeutic agent to an antibody. A therapeutic agent is an agent with a particular biological activity directed against a particular target molecule or a cell bearing a target molecule. One of skill in the art will appreciate that therapeutic agents may include various drugs such as vinblastine daunomycin and the like cytotoxins such as native or modified exotoxin or Diphtheria toxin encapsulating agents e.g. liposomes which themselves contain pharmacological compositions radioactive agents such as I P C H and S and other labels target moieties and ligands.

The choice of a particular therapeutic agent depends on the particular target molecule or cell and the biological effect is desired to evoke. Thus for example the therapeutic agent may be a cytotoxin which is used to bring about the death of a particular target cell. Conversely where it is merely desired to invoke a non lethal biological response the therapeutic agent may be conjugated to a non lethal pharmacological agent or a liposome containing a non lethal pharmacological agent.

With the therapeutic agents and antibodies herein provided one of skill can readily construct a variety of clones containing functionally equivalent nucleic acids such as nucleic acids which differ in sequence but which encode the same EM or antibody sequence. Thus the present invention provides nucleic acids encoding antibodies and conjugates and fusion proteins thereof.

The nucleic acid sequences of the present invention can be prepared by any suitable method including for example cloning of appropriate sequences or by direct chemical synthesis by methods such as the phosphotriester method of Narang et al. 68 90 99 1979 the phosphodiester method of Brown et al. 68 109 151 1979 the diethylphosphoramidite method of Beaucage et al. 22 1859 1862 1981 the solid phase phosphoramidite triester method described by Beaucage Caruthers 22 20 1859 1862 1981 e.g. using an automated synthesizer as described in for example Needham VanDevanter et al. 12 6159 6168 1984 and the solid support method of U.S. Pat. No. 4 458 066. Chemical synthesis produces a single stranded oligonucleotide. This may be converted into double stranded DNA by hybridization with a complementary sequence or by polymerization with a DNA polymerase using the single strand as a template. One of skill would recognize that while chemical synthesis of DNA is limited to sequences of about 100 bases longer sequences may be obtained by the ligation of shorter sequences.

In a preferred embodiment the nucleic acid sequences of this invention are prepared by cloning techniques. Examples of appropriate cloning and sequencing techniques and instructions sufficient to direct persons of skill through many cloning exercises are found in Sambrook et al. MC A LM 2E. Vols. 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1989 Berger and Kimmel eds. GTMCT Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. 1987 or Ausubel et al. eds. CPIMB Greene Publishing and Wiley Interscience NY 1987 . Product information from manufacturers of biological reagents and experimental equipment also provide useful information. Such manufacturers include the SIGMA chemical company Saint Louis Mo. R D systems Minneapolis Minn. Pharmacia LKB Biotechnology Piscataway N.J. CLONTECH Laboratories Inc. Palo Alto Calif. Chem Genes Corp. Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. Glen Research Inc. GIBCO BRL Life Technologies Inc. Gaithersberg Md. Fluka Chemica Biochemika Analytika Fluka Chemie AG Buchs Switzerland Invitrogen San Diego Calif. and Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. as well as many other commercial sources known to one of skill.

Nucleic acids encoding native EM or anti mesothelin antibodies can be modified to form the EM antibodies or immunoconjugates of the present invention. Modification by site directed mutagenesis is well known in the art. Nucleic acids encoding EM or anti mesothelin antibodies can be amplified by in vitro methods. Amplification methods include the polymerase chain reaction PCR the ligase chain reaction LCR the transcription based amplification system TAS the self sustained sequence replication system 3SR . A wide variety of cloning methods host cells and in vitro amplification methodologies are well known to persons of skill.

In a preferred embodiment immunoconjugates are prepared by inserting the cDNA which encodes an anti mesothelin scFv antibody into a vector which comprises the cDNA encoding the EM. The insertion is made so that the scFv and the EM are read in frame that is in one continuous polypeptide which contains a functional Fv region and a functional EM region. In a particularly preferred embodiment cDNA encoding a diphtheria toxin fragment is ligated to a scFv so that the toxin is located at the carboxyl terminus of the scFv. In a most preferred embodiment cDNA encoding PE is ligated to a scFv so that the toxin is located at the amino terminus of the scFv.

Once the nucleic acids encoding an EM anti mesothelin antibody or an immunoconjugate of the present invention are isolated and cloned one may express the desired protein in a recombinantly engineered cell such as bacteria plant yeast insect and mammalian cells. It is expected that those of skill in the art are knowledgeable in the numerous expression systems available for expression of proteins including other bacterial hosts yeast and various higher eucaryotic cells such as the COS CHO HeLa and myeloma cell lines. No attempt to describe in detail the various methods known for the expression of proteins in prokaryotes or eukaryotes will be made. In brief the expression of natural or synthetic nucleic acids encoding the isolated proteins of the invention will typically be achieved by operably linking the DNA or cDNA to a promoter which is either constitutive or inducible followed by incorporation into an expression cassette. The cassettes can be suitable for replication and integration in either prokaryotes or eukaryotes. Typical expression cassettes contain transcription and translation terminators initiation sequences and promoters useful for regulation of the expression of the DNA encoding the protein. To obtain high level expression of a cloned gene it is desirable to construct expression cassettes which contain at the minimum a strong promoter to direct transcription a ribosome binding site for translational initiation and a transcription translation terminator. For this includes a promoter such as the T7 trp lac or lambda promoters a ribosome binding site and preferably a transcription termination signal. For eukaryotic cells the control sequences can include a promoter and preferably an enhancer derived from immunoglobulin genes SV40 cytomegalovirus and a polyadenylation sequence and may include splice donor and acceptor sequences. The cassettes of the invention can be transferred into the chosen host cell by well known methods such as calcium chloride transformation or electroporation for and calcium phosphate treatment electroporation or lipofection for mammalian cells. Cells transformed by the cassettes can be selected by resistance to antibiotics conferred by genes contained in the cassettes such as the amp gpt neo and hyg genes.

One of skill would recognize that modifications can be made to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide of the present invention i.e. anti mesothelin antibody PE or an immunoconjugate formed from their combination without diminishing its biological activity. Some modifications may be made to facilitate the cloning expression or incorporation of the targeting molecule into a fusion protein. Such modifications are well known to those of skill in the art and include for example a methionine added at the amino terminus to provide an initiation site or additional amino acids e.g. poly His placed on either terminus to create conveniently located restriction sites or termination codons or purification sequences.

In addition to recombinant methods the immunoconjugates EM and antibodies of the present invention can also be constructed in whole or in part using standard peptide synthesis. Solid phase synthesis of the polypeptides of the present invention of less than about 50 amino acids in length may be accomplished by attaching the C terminal amino acid of the sequence to an insoluble support followed by sequential addition of the remaining amino acids in the sequence. Techniques for solid phase synthesis are described by Barany Merrifield TP A S B. V. 2 SMIPS PA. pp. 3 284 Merrifield et al. 85 2149 2156 1963 and Stewart et al. SPPS2E. Pierce Chem. Co. Rockford Ill. 1984 . Proteins of greater length may be synthesized by condensation of the amino and carboxyl termini of shorter fragments. Methods of forming peptide bonds by activation of a carboxyl terminal end e.g. by the use of the coupling reagent N N dicycylohexylcarbodiimide are known to those of skill.

Once expressed the recombinant immunoconjugates antibodies and or effector molecules of the present invention can be purified according to standard procedures of the art including ammonium sulfate precipitation affinity columns column chromatography and the like see generally R. Scopes PP Springer Verlag N.Y. 1982 . Substantially pure compositions of at least about 90 to 95 homogeneity are preferred and 98 to 99 or more homogeneity are most preferred for pharmaceutical uses. Once purified partially or to homogeneity as desired if to be used therapeutically the polypeptides should be substantially free of endotoxin.

Methods for expression of single chain antibodies and or refolding to an appropriate active form including single chain antibodies from bacteria such as have been described and are well known and are applicable to the antibodies of this invention. See Buchner et al. 205 263 270 1992 Pluckthun 9 545 1991 Huse et al. 246 1275 1989 and Ward et al. 341 544 1989 all incorporated by reference herein.

Often functional heterologous proteins from or other bacteria are isolated from inclusion bodies and require solubilization using strong denaturants and subsequent refolding. During the solubilization step as is well known in the art a reducing agent must be present to separate disulfide bonds. An exemplary buffer with a reducing agent is 0.1 M Tris pH 8 6 M guanidine 2 mM EDTA 0.3 M DTE dithioerythritol . Reoxidation of the disulfide bonds can occur in the presence of low molecular weight thiol reagents in reduced and oxidized form as described in Saxena et al. 9 5015 5021 1970 incorporated by reference herein and especially described by Buchner et al. supra.

Renaturation is typically accomplished by dilution e.g. 100 fold of the denatured and reduced protein into refolding buffer. An exemplary buffer is 0.1 M Tris pH 8.0 0.5 M L arginine 8 mM oxidized glutathione GSSG and 2 mM EDTA.

As a modification to the two chain antibody purification protocol the heavy and light chain regions are separately solubilized and reduced and then combined in the refolding solution. A preferred yield is obtained when these two proteins are mixed in a molar ratio such that a 5 fold molar excess of one protein over the other is not exceeded. It is desirable to add excess oxidized glutathione or other oxidizing low molecular weight compounds to the refolding solution after the redox shuffling is completed.

Toxins can be employed with antibodies of the present invention to yield immunotoxins. Exemplary toxins include ricin abrin diphtheria toxin and subunits thereof as well as botulinum toxins A through F. These toxins are readily available from commercial sources e.g. Sigma Chemical Company St. Louis Mo. . Diptheria toxin is isolated from . Ricin is the lectin RCA60 from Castor bean . The term also references toxic variants thereof. For example see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 079 163 and 4 689 401. agglutinin RCA occurs in two forms designated RCAand RCAaccording to their molecular weights of approximately 65 and 120 krespectively Nicholson Blaustein 266 543 1972 . The A chain is responsible for inactivating protein synthesis and killing cells. The B chain binds ricin to cell surface galactose residues and facilitates transport of the A chain into the cytosol Olsnes et al. 249 627 631 1974 and U.S. Pat. No. 3 060 165 .

Abrin includes toxic lectins from . The toxic principles abrin a b c and d have a molecular weight of from about 63 and 67 kand are composed of two disulfide linked polypeptide chains A and B. The A chain inhibits protein synthesis the B chain abrin b binds to D galactose residues see Funatsu et al. 52 1095 1988 and Olsnes 50 330 335 1978 .

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the toxin is exotoxin A PE . The term exotoxin as used herein refers to a full length native naturally occurring PE or a PE that has been modified. Such modifications may include but are not limited to elimination of domain Ia various amino acid deletions in domains Ib II and III single amino acid substitutions and the addition of one or more sequences at the carboxyl terminus such as KDEL SEQ ID NO 8 and REDL SEQ ID NO 9 . See Siegall et al. 264 14256 1989 . In a preferred embodiment the cytotoxic fragment of PE retains at least 50 preferably 75 more preferably at least 90 and most preferably 95 of the cytotoxicity of native PE. In a most preferred embodiment the cytotoxic fragment is more toxic than native PE.

Native exotoxin A PE is an extremely active monomeric protein molecular weight 66 kD secreted by which inhibits protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells. The native PE sequence is provided as SEQ ID NO 1 of commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 602 095 incorporated herein by reference. The method of action is inactivation of the ADP ribosylation of elongation factor 2 EF 2 . The exotoxin contains three structural domains that act in concert to cause cytotoxicity. Domain Ia amino acids 1 252 mediates cell binding. Domain II amino acids 253 364 is responsible for translocation into the cytosol and domain III amino acids 400 613 mediates ADP ribosylation of elongation factor 2. The function of domain Ib amino acids 365 399 remains undefined although a large part of it amino acids 365 380 can be deleted without loss of cytotoxicity. See Siegall et al. 264 14256 14261 1989 incorporated by reference herein.

PE employed in the present invention include the native sequence cytotoxic fragments of the native sequence and conservatively modified variants of native PE and its cytotoxic fragments. Cytotoxic fragments of PE include those which are cytotoxic with or without subsequent proteolytic or other processing in the target cell e.g. as a protein or pre protein . Cytotoxic fragments of PE include PE40 PE38 and PE35. PE40 is a truncated derivative of PE as previously described in the art. See Pai et al. 88 3358 62 1991 and Kondo et al. 263 9470 9475 1988 . PE35 is a 35 Kcarboxyl terminal fragment of PE composed of a met at position 280 followed by amino acids 281 364 and 381 613 of native PE. In preferred embodiments the cytotoxic fragment PE38 is employed. PE38 is a truncated PE pro protein composed of amino acids 253 364 and 381 613 which is activated to its cytotoxic form upon processing within a cell see U.S. Pat. No. 5 608 039 incorporated herein by reference .

In a particularly preferred embodiment PE38 is the toxic moiety of the immunotoxin of this invention however other cytotoxic fragments PE35 and PE40 are contemplated and are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 602 095 and 4 892 827 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Conservatively modified variants of PE or cytotoxic fragments thereof have at least 80 sequence similarity preferably at least 85 sequence similarity more preferably at least 90 sequence similarity and most preferably at least 95 sequence similarity at the amino acid level with the PE of interest such as PE38.

The term conservatively modified variants applies to both amino acid and nucleic acid sequences. With respect to particular nucleic acid sequences conservatively modified variants refer to those nucleic acid sequences which encode identical or essentially identical amino acid sequences or if the nucleic acid does not encode an amino acid sequence to essentially identical nucleic acid sequences. Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code a large number of functionally identical nucleic acids encode any given polypeptide. For instance the codons GCA GCC GCG and GCU all encode the amino acid alanine. Thus at every position where an alanine is specified by a codon the codon can be altered to any of the corresponding codons described without altering the encoded polypeptide. Such nucleic acid variations are silent variations which are one species of conservatively modified variations. Every nucleic acid sequence herein which encodes a polypeptide also describes every possible silent variation of the nucleic acid. One of skill will recognize that each codon in a nucleic acid except AUG which is ordinarily the only codon for methionine can be modified to yield a functionally identical molecule. Accordingly each silent variation of a nucleic acid which encodes a polypeptide is implicit in each described sequence.

As to amino acid sequences one of skill will recognize that individual substitutions deletions or additions to a nucleic acid peptide polypeptide or protein sequence which alters adds or deletes a single amino acid or a small percentage of amino acids in the encoded sequence is a conservatively modified variant where the alteration results in the substitution of an amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid.

Antibodies of the present invention can also be used to target any number of different diagnostic or therapeutic compounds to cells expressing mesothelin on their surface. Thus an antibody of the present invention such as an anti mesothelin scFv may be attached directly or via a linker to a drug that is to be delivered directly to cells bearing mesothelin. Therapeutic agents include such compounds as nucleic acids proteins peptides amino acids or derivatives glycoproteins radioisotopes lipids carbohydrates or recombinant viruses. Nucleic acid therapeutic and diagnostic moieties include antisense nucleic acids derivatized oligonucleotides for covalent cross linking with single or duplex DNA and triplex forming oligonucleotides.

Alternatively the molecule linked to an anti mesothelin antibody may be an encapsulation system such as a liposome or micelle that contains a therapeutic composition such as a drug a nucleic acid e.g. an antisense nucleic acid or another therapeutic moiety that is preferably shielded from direct exposure to the circulatory system. Means of preparing liposomes attached to antibodies are well known to those of skill in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 957 735 and Connor et al. 28 341 365 1985 .

Antibodies of the present invention may optionally be covalently or noncovalently linked to a detectable label. Detectable labels suitable for such use include any composition detectable by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical electrical optical or chemical means. Useful labels in the present invention include magnetic beads e.g. DYNABEADS fluorescent dyes e.g. fluorescein isothiocyanate Texas red rhodamine green fluorescent protein and the like radiolabels e.g. H I S C or P enzymes e.g. horse radish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase and others commonly used in an ELISA and colorimetric labels such as colloidal gold or colored glass or plastic e.g. polystyrene polypropylene latex etc. beads.

Means of detecting such labels are well known to those of skill in the art. Thus for example radiolabels may be detected using photographic film or scintillation counters fluorescent markers may be detected using a photodetector to detect emitted illumination. Enzymatic labels are typically detected by providing the enzyme with a substrate and detecting the reaction product produced by the action of the enzyme on the substrate and calorimetric labels are detected by simply visualizing the colored label.

In a non recombinant embodiment of the invention effector molecules e.g. therapeutic diagnostic or detection moieties are linked to the anti mesothelin antibodies of the present invention using any number of means known to those of skill in the art. Both covalent and noncovalent attachment means may be used with anti mesothelin antibodies of the present invention.

The procedure for attaching an effector molecule to an antibody will vary according to the chemical structure of the EM. Polypeptides typically contain variety of functional groups e.g. carboxylic acid COOH free amine NH or sulfhydryl SH groups which are available for reaction with a suitable functional group on an antibody to result in the binding of the effector molecule.

Alternatively the antibody is derivatized to expose or attach additional reactive functional groups. The derivatization may involve attachment of any of a number of linker molecules such as those available from Pierce Chemical Company Rockford Ill.

A linker as used herein is a molecule that is used to join the antibody to the effector molecule. The linker is capable of forming covalent bonds to both the antibody and to the effector molecule. Suitable linkers are well known to those of skill in the art and include but are not limited to straight or branched chain carbon linkers heterocyclic carbon linkers or peptide linkers. Where the antibody and the effector molecule are polypeptides the linkers may be joined to the constituent amino acids through their side groups e.g. through a disulfide linkage to cysteine . However in a preferred embodiment the linkers will be joined to the alpha carbon amino and carboxyl groups of the terminal amino acids.

In some circumstances it is desirable to free the effector molecule from the antibody when the immunoconjugate has reached its target site. Therefore in these circumstances immunoconjugates will comprise linkages which are cleavable in the vicinity of the target site. Cleavage of the linker to release the effector molecule from the antibody may be prompted by enzymatic activity or conditions to which the immunoconjugate is subjected either inside the target cell or in the vicinity of the target site. When the target site is a tumor a linker which is cleavable under conditions present at the tumor site e.g. when exposed to tumor associated enzymes or acidic pH may be used.

In view of the large number of methods that have been reported for attaching a variety of radiodiagnostic compounds radiotherapeutic compounds drugs toxins and other agents to antibodies one skilled in the art will be able to determine a suitable method for attaching a given agent to an antibody or other polypeptide.

The antibody and or immunoconjugate compositions of this invention i.e. PE linked to an anti mesothelin antibody are particularly useful for parenteral administration such as intravenous administration or administration into a body cavity or lumen of an organ. For example ovarian malignancies may be treated by intravenous administration or by localized delivery to the tissue surrounding the tumor. To treat mesotheliomas the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention can be administered directly into the pleural or peritoneal cavities.

The compositions for administration will commonly comprise a solution of the antibody and or immunoconjugate dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier preferably an aqueous carrier. A variety of aqueous carriers can be used e.g. buffered saline and the like. These solutions are sterile and generally free of undesirable matter. These compositions may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques. The compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents toxicity adjusting agents and the like for example sodium acetate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sodium lactate and the like. The concentration of fusion protein in these formulations can vary widely and will be selected primarily based on fluid volumes viscosities body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected and the patient s needs.

Thus a typical pharmaceutical immunotoxin composition of the present invention for intravenous administration would be about 0.1 to 10 mg per patient per day. Dosages from 0.1 up to about 100 mg per patient per day may be used particularly if the drug is administered to a secluded site and not into the circulatory or lymph system such as into a body cavity or into a lumen of an organ. Actual methods for preparing administrable compositions will be known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in more detail in such publications as RPS19E. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1995 .

The compositions of the present invention can be administered for therapeutic treatments. In therapeutic applications compositions are administered to a patient suffering from a disease in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the disease and its complications. An amount adequate to accomplish this is defined as a therapeutically effective dose. Amounts effective for this use will depend upon the severity of the disease and the general state of the patient s health. An effective amount of the compound is that which provides either subjective relief of a symptom s or an objectively identifiable improvement as noted by the clinician or other qualified observer.

Single or multiple administrations of the compositions are administered depending on the dosage and frequency as required and tolerated by the patient. In any event the composition should provide a sufficient quantity of the proteins of this invention to effectively treat the patient. Preferably the dosage is administered once but may be applied periodically until either a therapeutic result is achieved or until side effects warrant discontinuation of therapy. Generally the dose is sufficient to treat or ameliorate symptoms or signs of disease without producing unacceptable toxicity to the patient.

Controlled release parenteral formulations of the immunoconjugate compositions of the present invention can be made as implants oily injections or as particulate systems. For a broad overview of protein delivery systems see Banga A. J. TPAP F P ADS Technomic Publishing Company Inc. Lancaster Pa. 1995 incorporated herein by reference. Particulate systems include microspheres microparticles microcapsules nanocapsules nanospheres and nanoparticles. Microcapsules contain the therapeutic protein as a central core. In microspheres the therapeutic is dispersed throughout the particle. Particles microspheres and microcapsules smaller than about 1 m are generally referred to as nanoparticles nanospheres and nanocapsules respectively. Capillaries have a diameter of approximately 5 m so that only nanoparticles are administered intravenously. Microparticles are typically around 100 m in diameter and are administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly. See e.g. Kreuter J. CDDS J. Kreuter ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York N.Y. pp. 219 342 1994 and Tice Tabibi TOCDD A. Kydonieus ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York N.Y. pp. 315 339 1992 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Polymers can be used for ion controlled release of immunoconjugate compositions of the present invention. Various degradable and nondegradable polymeric matrices for use in controlled drug delivery are known in the art Langer R. 26 537 542 1993 . For example the block copolymer polaxamer 407 exists as a viscous yet mobile liquid at low temperatures but forms a semisolid gel at body temperature. It has shown to be an effective vehicle for formulation and sustained delivery of recombinant interleukin 2 and urease Johnston et al. 9 425 434 1992 and Pec et al. 44 2 58 65 1990 . Alternatively hydroxyapatite has been used as a microcarrier for controlled release of proteins Ijntema et al. 112 215 224 1994 . In yet another aspect liposomes are used for controlled release as well as drug targeting of the lipid capsulated drug Betageri et at. LDDS Technomic Publishing Co. Inc. Lancaster Pa. 1993 . Numerous additional systems for controlled delivery of therapeutic proteins are known. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 055 303 5 188 837 4 235 871 4 501 728 4 837 028 4 957 735 and 5 019 369 5 055 303 5 514 670 5 413 797 5 268 164 5 004 697 4 902 505 5 506 206 5 271 961 5 254 342 and 5 534 496 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Among various uses of the immunotoxins of the present invention are included a variety of disease conditions caused by specific human cells that may be eliminated by the toxic action of the fusion protein. One preferred application for the immunotoxins of the invention is the treatment of malignant cells expressing mesothelin. Exemplary malignant cells include ovarian stomach and squamous cell cancers as well as mesotheliomas.

In another embodiment this invention provides for kits for the detection of mesothelin or an immunoreactive fragment thereof i.e. collectively a mesothelin protein in a biological sample. A biological sample as used herein is a sample of biological tissue or fluid that contains mesothelin. Such samples include but are not limited to tissue from biopsy sputum amniotic fluid blood and blood cells e.g. white cells . Fluid samples may be of some interest but are generally not preferred herein since detectable concentrations of mesothelin are rarely found in such a sample. Biological samples also include sections of tissues such as frozen sections taken for histological purposes. A biological sample is typically obtained from a multicellular eukaryote preferably a mammal such as rat mice cow dog guinea pig or rabbit and most preferably a primate such as macaques chimpanzees or humans.

Kits will typically comprise an anti mesothelin antibody of the present invention. In some embodiments the anti mesothelin antibody will be an anti mesothelin Fv fragment preferably a scFv fragment.

In addition the kits will typically include instructional materials disclosing means of use of an antibody of the present invention e.g. for detection of mesothelial cells in a sample . The kits may also include additional components to facilitate the particular application for which the kit is designed. Thus for example the kit may additionally contain means of detecting the label e.g. enzyme substrates for enzymatic labels filter sets to detect fluorescent labels appropriate secondary labels such as a sheep anti mouse HRP or the like . The kits may additionally include buffers and other reagents routinely used for the practice of a particular method. Such kits and appropriate contents are well known to those of skill in the art.

In one embodiment of the present invention the diagnostic kit comprises an immunoassay. As described above although the details of the immunoassays of the present invention may vary with the particular format employed the method of detecting mesothelin in a biological sample generally comprises the steps of contacting the biological sample with an antibody which specifically reacts under immunologically reactive conditions to mesothelin. The antibody is allowed to bind to mesothelin under immunologically reactive conditions and the presence of the bound antibody is detected directly or indirectly.

Although the present invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

Four month old female Balb c mice were immunized intradermally with 15 g of the plasmid pcD3CAK1 9 which contains the coding sequence for full length mesothelin Chang et al. 93 136 140 1996 in 0.15 M NaCl. After 3 weeks four booster intradermal injections of 15 g pcD3CAK1 9 were given at intervals of three to five weeks. The spacing between the injections was determined by following the anti mesothelin antibody titer in the blood by ELISA. The titer was defined as the reciprocal of the highest dilution of anti serum which gave an ELISA signal 2 3 fold higher than the background. Each booster injection was given when the titer in the blood declined from a peak level except for the last injection which was given when the titer remained at a plateau for five weeks. Ten days after the last injection the antibody titer was more than 100 000 as measured by ELISA using recombinant mesothelin. At this time the mice were sacrificed and the spleens collected.

These procedures were performed as described earlier Chowdhury et al. 34 9 20 1997 with the following modifications. About 150 ng of scFv DNA insert was used for ligation into 125 ng of SfiI and NotI cut pCANTAB5E and the library was made in XL 1 blue MRF cells instead of XL 2 blue MRF . The library contained about 9 10independent clones. Glucose was added to the library which was in 18 mL SOC medium to a final concentration of 2 w v . After incubation at 37 C. for 90 min ampicillin and tetracycline were added to final concentrations of 100 and 10 g mL respectively. Incubation was continued at 37 C. for another 90 min and the cultures stored as glycerol stocks.

Recombinant phage were rescued by superinfection with the helper phage M13KO7 and tested for binding to recombinant mesothelin a.a. 291 606 . demonstrates the phage bound to mesothelin in a concentration dependent manner and did not show any binding to ELISA wells that were uncoated or were coated with various control proteins. This indicated that the phage displaying an anti mesothelin scFv antibody SS scFv was specific for mesothelin. To determine if the SS scFv phage bound to a different epitope of mesothelin than MAb K1 see Chang et al. 57 90 1994 a competition ELISA was performed. As a positive control inhibition of binding of a K1 phage by isolated and purified K1 IgG was tested in parallel. As shown in the binding of the SS scFv phage was only slightly inhibited by K1 IgG and there was no concentration dependence of the inhibition whereas binding of the K1 phage was greatly reduced by K1 IgG. This indicated that the epitope to which SS scFv is directed was different from that of K1.

During the panning and reamplification process in XL 1 see infra frequent deletion of the scFv sequences from the phagemid were noticed. The library was therefore transferred to the TG 1 strain for panning. First polyethylene glycol PEG precipitated recombinant phage were rescued from a pool of glycerol stocks of the library in XL 1. TG1 cells 50 mL at an ODDof 0.55 in 2XYT were infected with the rescued phage at a multiplicity of infection m.o.i. of five. Incubation was at 37 C. for 30 min with shaking at 110 rpm and then for 30 min at 250 rpm. Ampicillin 100 g mL was added and the culture was further incubated for 30 min at 37 C. at 250 rpm. Recombinant phagemid particles were rescued with M13KO7 as described Chowdhury et al. 34 9 20 1997 except that rescue was at 37 C. and 30 C. in separate cultures. The phage were PEG precipitated three times Lin et al. 255 10331 10337 1980 before being used for panning on recombinant mesothelin a.a. 291 606 .

Recombinant mesothelin was prepared as described in Chowdhury et al. 34 9 20 1997 . Panning was done at 37 C. to select for a scFv that would be stable at this temperature.

Method 1 direct panning 35 mm diameter wells of tissue culture grade plates were coated with 1.5 mL of recombinant mesothelin at 5 g mL 125 nM in 50 mM bicarbonate buffer pH 9.4 and blocked with 3 non fat milk in PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 TPBS . In the first round of panning 2 10colony forming units were added. After 2 hours at 37 C. and after 20 rounds of washing with TPBS and PBS 7 10phage remained on the plate. The bound phage were eluted with 1 mL of 50 mM HCl pH 1.3 for 10 minutes at 37 C. After neutralization with Tris buffer an aliquot of the eluate was used for titration on LB plates containing 100 g mL ampicillin and 2 glucose. The rest was used to infect 10 mL TG1 cells grown to a ODof 0.3 in 2XYT. During this infection phase glucose was added to the culture for a final concentration of 2 . The culture was incubated at 37 C. for 30 min with shaking at 110 rpm and then for 30 min at 250 rpm. Ampicillin was added to a final concentration of 100 g mL and the culture incubated for an additional 30 min at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm and followed by the addition of M13KO7 at a m.o.i. of 15. The culture was incubated for 60 min at 37 C. with shaking at 110 rpm for the first 30 min and then at 250 rpm. The cells were pelleted and resuspended in 20 L 2 YT medium containing 100 g mL ampicillin and 50 g mL kanamycin. The culture was incubated at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm overnight. The rescued phage in the culture medium were PEG precipitated titrated and used for the next round of panning. After the third round of panning ten clones were selected randomly and DNA minipreps were analyzed for BstN1 fingerprinting and nucleotide sequence analysis.

Method 2 off rate panning The procedure described above was followed except that after washing the unbound phage particles the plates were incubated at 37 C. in PBS for an additional 2 hrs. before eluting the bound phage to select for phage which would have a slower off rate.

Titration of eluted phage from both direct and off rate panning showed that there was a 1000 2000 fold enrichment in the number of eluted phage between the first and third round of panning Table 1 .

After each round of panning recombinant phage were rescued from 48 randomly picked individual phagemid colonies. Initially there was no detectable mesothelin positive clone among colonies picked randomly from the unpanned library. Also there was none in the eluate after the first round of panning see Table 1 . In the eluate after the second round of panning there were 1 2 mesothelin positive clones out of 48 tested. In the third eluate the number increased to about 30 48. BstN1 fingerprinting of six positive clones from each group showed that the restriction pattern was identical for all the clones. DNA sequencing of six clones from each group after three rounds of panning revealed that the positive clones obtained were identical in their nucleotide sequence.

A similar selection process was carried out using phage grown and selected at 30 C. and the same clone was obtained. The single scFv clone capable of binding to mesothelin was termed SS scFv. The amino acid sequence obtained from a translation of the nucleotide sequence of SS scFv is shown in . The nucleotide sequence has been deposited in the GenBank database as Accession Number AF035617 SEQ ID NO 1 . According to Kabat s classification the Vbelongs to sub group IIA and family V and the Vbelongs to sub group VI and family XI.

SS scFv was analyzed to determine whether it would be a candidate as the targeting moiety of an immunotoxin. Previously it was found that murine monoclonal antibodies raised against recombinant mesothelin isolated from bacteria inclusion bodies bound recombinant mesothelin but did not bind native mammalian cell derived mesothelin with high affinity. A phage display library was made from the splenic mRNA of the immunized mice and scFvs which bound to recombinant mesothelin were found. However immunotoxins prepared from these antibodies did not kill cells which express mesothelin. It was hypothesized that these antibodies had low affinity for human mesothelin as found on cell surfaces. In addition another murine antibody against mesothelin K1 was coupled to PE40. This immunotoxin too failed to kill mesothelin expressing cells Chang et al. 52 181 1992 .

Binding of phage to mesothelin was assayed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA . A Wells of IMMUNOLON 4 plates were coated with 200 ng mesothelin a.a. 291 606 BSA the p55 subunit of the IL 2 receptor or streptavidin in 100 L bicarbonate buffer pH 9.4 overnight at 4 C. The wells were blocked with 3 non fat dry milk in TPBS for 60 min. 100 L of blocking solution containing varying numbers of phage was applied to each well and incubated for 60 min at 37 C. After washing with TPBS bound phage were detected with an anti M13 antibody conjugated to HRP for 60 min at 37 C. After washing with TPBS and PBS the ELISA wells were developed with 100 L BM Blue substrate Boehringer Mannheim for HRP. Color development was stopped after 2 minutes with 100 L 2 NHSOand the O.D. readings were taken at 450 nm.

 B Competition ELISA Competition ELISA was performed on immobilized recombinant mesothelin as described above except that 100 L of various dilutions of TG1 culture supernatant SS scFv or K1 scFv recombinant phagemid particles was used directly for ELISA either with or without 1.0 g K1 IgG.

To determine if the antibody selected by panning on recombinant mesothelin a.a. 291 606 bound to mesothelin displayed on a mammalian cell surface an immunofluorescence assay was performed with mesothelin positive cells. NIH 3T3 is a Swiss mouse fibroblast cell line. NIH 3T3K20 is stably transfected with a eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3 containing the full length mesothelin gene pcD3CAK1 9 . A431 is a cervical epidermoid carcinoma and A431 K5 is stably transfected with pcD3CAK1 9. Other cell lines were previously described Chang et al. 52 181 186 1992 and Reiter et al. 33 5451 5459 1994 .

The cells were grown in 35 mm tissue culture dishes. The cells were washed with DPBS containing Ca and Mg DPBS and cooled over ice. The cells were blocked with 0.2 BSA in DPBS at 4 C. and exposed to 10phage particles selected by panning or to anti Tac phage which displays a scFv to p55 subunit of the IL 2 receptor for 60 minutes at 4 C. Bound phage were detected with a mouse MAb to gVIIIp of M13 phage as the first antibody followed by goat anti mouse IgG coupled to rhodamine as the detecting antibody. After washing the cells were fixed in 3.7 formaldehyde and mounted in situ under cover slips in buffered glycerol.

To determine if the SS scFv could target a cytotoxic agent to mesothelin positive cells a recombinant immunotoxin was constructed by fusing SS scFv to PE38 a truncated form of exotoxin A. In this construction the SS scFv replaced the binding domain of PE and targeted the toxin to cells to which SS scFv bound i.e. mesothelin expressing cells.

The scFv from the phagemid vector pPSC7 1 was PCR amplified using primer pairs New G2 Nde1 5 TAAGAAGGAGATATACATATGCAGGTACAACTGCAGCAGTCTGGG 3 SEQ ID NO 3 as the back primer and New G2 HindIII 5 GCCCTCGGGACC TCCGGAAGCTTTTATTTCCAACTTTGTCCC 3 SEQ ID NO 4 as the forward primer. These primers introduced a Nde1 and a HindIII site at the 5 and 3 ends of SS scFv. After agarose gel purification the PCR product was digested with Nde1 and HindIII and ligated into the 4180 bp fragment of pUL17 Benhar et al. 5 321 326 1994 obtained by cutting with the same enzymes. The resulting plasmid pPSC had SS scFv fused in frame with domain II and III of exotoxin A SEQ ID NO 2 . Competent were transformed and recombinant proteins were found in inclusion bodies Brinkmann et al. 88 8616 8620 1991 .

After renaturation from inclusion bodies the SS scFv PE38 was purified by ion exchange and size exclusion chromatography. The recombinant immunotoxin eluted as a monomer from a TSK gel filtration column and migrated as a single band of about 67 kD by SDS PAGE. Calculating from total inclusion body proteins subjected to refolding the yield of protein was about 12 .

The binding characteristics of the immunotoxin was determined by surface plasmon resonance Brinkmann et al. 71 638 644 1997 . Recombinant mesothelin a.a. 291 606 was coupled to BIACore sensor chip CM5 and a 25 g mL solution of the immunotoxin was run over the chip. The kwas found to be 1.68 10Msec. The kwas found to be 1.83 10sec. The dissociation constant or Kcalculated from these data was 11 nM.

The ability of the SS scFv PE38 to inhibit protein synthesis was used as a measure of its cytotoxic effect Chaudhary et al. 339 394 397 1989 . To determine if SS scFv could be internalized so that the toxin could kill the target cells mesothelin positive and mesothelin negative cells were exposed to the immunotoxin for 20 hours in the presence of H leucine and H incorporation was determined. On A431 K5 cells which express mesothelin the amount of immunotoxin required to inhibit protein synthesis by 50 or ICwas found to be 0.5 ng mL Table 2 whereas on ATAC4 cells which express the p55 subunit of the IL 2 receptor the ICwas 400 ng. On nontransfected A431 cells the ICwas found to be 450 ng mL. Thus the cytotoxic activity of SS scFv PE38 was found to be highly specific.

The recombinant immunotoxin was also tested with several antigen negative cell lines HUT102 Raji and JD38 and showed very little cytotoxic activity IC 1 000 ng mL . However with the mesothelin positive ovarian cancer cell line A1847 the ICwas found to be 16 ng mL. Two gastric carcinoma cell lines AGS and N87 which express mesothelin were sensitive to SS scFv PE38 with an ICof 6 ng mL. These studies indicated that sufficient amounts of SS scFv PE38 were internalized to kill mesothelin positive cell lines.

To be useful in targeted therapy a scFv must be stable for many hours at 37 C. while it penetrates the interior of tumors Brinkmann et al. 1198 27 45 1994 . The stability of the SS scFv PE38 immunotoxin was analyzed by measuring the cytotoxic activity of aliquots of a 10 g mL stock in 0.2 human serum albumin HSA in DPBS after incubation at 37 C. for varying periods of time. At the end of the incubation the samples were stored at 80 C. and tested for their cytotoxic activity on A431 K5 cells.

SS scFv PE38 was assayed for its ability to inhibit the growth or cause regression of subcutaneous tumor xenografts in nude mice. This was done by injecting 1.5 10A431 K5 cells subcutaneously into 4 6 week old nude mice on day 0. Treatment was started on day 4 when tumors measured about 50 mm. Animals were treated intravenously with three doses of 2.6 or 4.3 g of SS scFv PE38 on days 5 7 and 9. The control group received either anti Tac scFv PE38 which had been previously shown to produce complete regression of tumors expressing the IL 2 receptor Reiter Y. et al. 58 142 1994 but which is not cytotoxic to A431 K5 cells or the carrier 0.2 HSA in DPBS . Each group consisted of five animals.

All publications and patents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference into the specification to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference.

