---

title: Online incentive management
abstract: Various methods and systems are provided to facilitate the centralized storage and access of online incentives such as coupons redeemable at associated online marketplaces. In one example, merchants may provide incentive information to payment service providers that in turn may associate such information with user accounts maintained by the payment service providers. Payment service providers may permit users to view incentives associated with their user accounts, thereby providing users with a comprehensive way to manage incentives from a plurality of online merchants. In another example, merchants may advise users of previously registered incentives in response to user activities in relation to online marketplaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401894&OS=08401894&RS=08401894
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08401894
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080502
---
The present invention generally relates to online transactions and more particularly to the management of incentive information to facilitate online transactions.

Customers routinely search for and purchase products and services through electronic communications with online merchants over electronic networks such as the Internet. During the course of these transactions customers may provide payment in various ways including for example credit cards electronic fund transfers and other payment techniques offered by service providers.

In order to attract customers online merchants may provide incentives in the form of discounts sales or other offers directed to various products and services. However it is often difficult to inform relevant consumers of such incentives. For example merchants are often required to engage in expensive advertising directed to various media in order to attract consumers to appropriate merchant websites. Other forms of advertising such as unsolicited email messages may be ignored or not trusted by consumers.

Also it is often difficult for consumers to remember or manage incentives in any organized fashion. In this regard consumers may occasionally print out or electronically store merchant incentive offers for future reference. But such an approach requires continuous management by consumers which can be unduly burdensome. Moreover consumers who chose not to perform such management may be unable to recall previously offered merchant incentives which may result in lost sales for merchants and lost savings opportunities for consumers.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a method of managing incentives for online transactions includes maintaining a plurality of user accounts comprising user financial information. The method also includes receiving incentive information over a network. The incentive information identifies incentives associated with a plurality of online marketplaces. The method further includes storing the incentive information in a plurality of incentive records. In addition the method includes associating each of the incentive records with at least one of the user accounts. The method also includes serving the incentive information of at least one of the incentive records associated with the one of the user accounts over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method of providing incentives for online transactions includes generating incentive information identifying an incentive associated with an online marketplace. The method also includes passing the incentive information to a payment service provider over a network. The method further includes providing a client device with access to the online marketplace over the network. In addition the method includes detecting a user identifier stored by the client device. The method also includes passing the user identifier to the payment service provider. The method further includes receiving the incentive information from the payment service provider in response to the user identifier. In addition the method includes serving the incentive information to the client device over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method of managing incentives for online transactions includes providing incentive information from a client device over a network to a payment service provider server to store the incentive information in an incentive record associated with a user account. The user account comprises financial information associated with a user of the client device. The incentive information identifies an incentive associated with an online marketplace.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a payment service provider system includes means for maintaining user financial information. The payment service provider system also includes means for receiving incentive information over a network. The incentive information identifies incentives associated with a plurality of online marketplaces. The payment service provider system further includes means for storing the incentive information. In addition the payment service provider system includes means for associating the incentive information with the user financial information. The payment service provider system also includes means for serving the incentive information over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention an online marketplace system includes means for generating incentive information identifying an incentive associated with the online marketplace. The online marketplace system also includes means for passing the incentive information to a payment service provider over a network. The online marketplace system further includes means for providing a client device with access to the online marketplace over the network. In addition the online marketplace system includes means for detecting a user identifier stored by the client device. The online marketplace system also includes means for passing the user identifier to the payment service provider. The online marketplace system further includes means for receiving the incentive information from the payment service provider in response to the user identifier. In addition the online marketplace system includes means for serving the incentive information to the client device over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a client device includes means for providing incentive information from the client device over a network to a payment service provider server to store the incentive information in an incentive record associated with a user account. The user account comprises financial information associated with a user of the client device. The incentive information identifies an incentive associated with an online marketplace.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein incentives such as coupons gift certificates credit balances vouchers or other forms of discounts offered by online merchants can be provided to payment service providers and associated with user accounts maintained by such payment service providers. For example in one embodiment merchants may provide incentive information e.g. identifying one or more incentives offered by one or more merchants to payment service providers that in turn may associate such information with user accounts maintained by the payment service providers. Payment service providers may permit users to view incentive information associated with their user accounts thereby providing users with a comprehensive way to manage incentives from a plurality of online merchants.

Merchants may also remind users of previously registered incentive information in response to user activities in relation to online marketplaces. For example in one embodiment a merchant may detect the existence of a user s account with a payment service provider and receive previously registered incentive information from the payment service provider to serve such information to an appropriate client device operated by the user.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present invention only and not for purposes of limiting the same illustrates a block diagram of a networked system configured to manage online incentives in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown system includes a client device a merchant server a multiple merchant server and a payment service provider server in communication over a network .

Client device merchant server multiple merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user e.g. a customer in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments client device may be implemented as a wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or other types of computing devices.

As shown client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

Client device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

Client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to client device . For example in various embodiments such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

As also shown in client device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of client device or other appropriate identifiers. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an online merchant offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . In this regard merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of client . For example in one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser application over network in order to search and view various products or services identified in database .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . In this regard checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server over network .

Merchant server further includes an incentive generating application which may be configured to generate various incentives such as incentives which may be redeemed by user during interactions with merchant server . For example in one embodiment incentive generating application may be configured to generate and distribute incentive information to payment service provider server for association with various user accounts maintained by payment service provider server .

Multiple merchant server may be maintained for example by an online service provider that displays various products and or services available from a plurality of merchants for example from one or more of merchants maintaining corresponding merchant servers . In one embodiment multiple merchant server may be provided by eBay Inc.

Multiple merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly multiple merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of client . For example in one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser application over network in order to search and view various products or services identified in database .

Multiple merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . In this regard checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server over network .

Multiple merchant server further includes an incentive generating application which may be configured to generate various incentives such as incentives which may be redeemed by user during interactions with multiple merchant server . For example in one embodiment incentive generating application may be configured to generate and distribute incentive information to payment service provider server for association with various user accounts maintained by payment service provider server .

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server or multiple merchant server . In this regard payment service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with client device merchant server and or multiple merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by user from merchant server and or multiple merchant server . In one embodiment payment service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc.

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example in one embodiment account information may include private financial information of user such as account numbers passwords credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server and or multiple merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout applications or without requiring user to provide account information to merchant server or multiple merchant server .

Payment service provider server also provides an incentive processing application which may be configured to receive incentive information from merchant server and or multiple merchant server for storage in an incentive database . Incentive processing application may be further configured to select incentive records from incentive database to be provided to user .

Payment service provider server further includes an incentive generating application which may be configured to generate various incentives such as incentives which may be redeemed by user during interactions with merchant server and or multiple merchant server . For example in one embodiment incentive generating application may be configured to generate and distribute incentive information to payment service provider server for association with various user accounts maintained by payment service provider server .

As a result of such previous registration client device stores a user identifier that may be used to identify the particular user as having a user account maintained by payment service provider server . As previously described user identifier may be implemented for example as one or more cookies operating system registry entries hardware identifiers or other types of identifiers.

In step incentive generating application and or serves i.e. passes the incentive information generated in step to payment service provider server over network . In response payment service provider server stores the incentive information as an incentive record in incentive database step .

In step the merchant chooses to issue the incentive to a particular user such as user . Accordingly merchant server and or multiple merchant server may also pass such information to payment service provider server in step .

In step incentive processing application associates the newly stored incentive record with one or more individual user accounts in response to the information passed in step . Incentive processing application may be implemented with appropriate rules based or heuristics based facilities for associating appropriate incentive records with particular user accounts by comparing the new incentive information with user identifier user account account information information received from merchant server or other characteristics. Alternatively incentive processing application may be configured to indiscriminately associate the new incentive record with all of user accounts .

In step user provides incentive information to payment service provider server . Such incentive information may correspond to for example an incentive offered to user by a merchant multiple merchants payment service provider or other entity through an electronic paper verbal or other communication.

In response payment service provider server stores the incentive information received from user as an incentive record in incentive database step . In step incentive processing application associates the newly stored incentive record with the particular user account associated with user .

As the processes of and or are performed and repeated in various embodiments a plurality of incentive records associated with the user account of user may be stored by payment service provider server . Advantageously user may use payment service provider server as a repository e.g. an electronic wallet to conveniently store and or retrieve incentive information identifying various incentives which may be used in transactions with one or more different merchants and or service providers.

In step client device logs in to payment service provider server in the manner described in step of . In step client device requests that payment service provider provide a list or other appropriate display of the available incentives e.g. corresponding to incentive information stored in incentive records of incentive database that are associated with the user s particular user account . For example in one embodiment step corresponds to a request for all associated incentives. In another embodiment step corresponds to a search request for all incentives associated with the user s particular user account that meet additional search criteria for example incentives associated with a particular merchant multiple merchant marketplace product service or other criteria .

Also in step client device may optionally pass additional criteria to payment service provider server . In various embodiments such criteria may include for example information concerning the particular products or services viewed or selected by user during step the browsing habits of user previous transactions by user or other information as may be appropriate in particular implementations.

In step incentive processing application of payment service provider server determines whether any incentive records of incentive database match the request of step . In response payment service provider server serves any matching incentives e.g. by serving the corresponding incentive information found to client device step .

In step client device displays any incentives received from payment service provider server . For example illustrates a sample user interface that may be displayed to user on client device by browser application during step in one embodiment. In this regard user interface may be a browser window provided by browser application to display for example a list of incentive records currently associated with the particular user account and or other criteria specified in step . In the particular embodiment illustrated in each of incentive records includes a plurality of fields identifying the particular incentive type original value balance status e.g. expiration date or no expiration date and validity.

Referring again to in step user may conduct a transaction with merchant server and or multiple merchant server using one or more of the incentives retrieved during the process of . Following such a transaction wherein one or more of the incentives is used incentive processing application of payment service provider server updates incentive database to indicate that the one or more incentives have been used step . For example if one of the incentives used in step is associated with a credit balance having a particular dollar amount incentive database may be updated to indicate a reduction in the credit balance corresponding to the cost of the transaction. In another example if one of the incentives used in step is associated with a coupon redeemable only once then incentive database may be updated to remove the incentive or indicate that the incentive is no longer available or valid for use. In various embodiments step may be performed by incentive processing application of payment service provider server in response to merchant server multiple merchant server and or client device .

In step merchant server or multiple merchant server detects user identifier maintained by client device and serves user identifier to payment service provider server . For example in one embodiment where user interacts with marketplace applications or checkout applications through browser application merchant server or multiple merchant server may be configured to detect user identifier implemented by a cookie.

Also in step merchant server or multiple merchant server may optionally pass additional criteria to payment service provider server . In various embodiments such criteria may include for example information concerning the particular products or services viewed or selected by user during step the browsing habits of user previous transactions by user or other information as may be appropriate in particular implementations.

Upon receipt of user identifier in step payment service provider server matches user identifier with the particular user account of user . Following this matching incentive processing application of payment service provider server determines incentive information to be provided to user from incentive database step . For example in one embodiment incentive processing application may select incentive information from various incentive records of incentive database to be provided to user based on for example user identifier the user s account information the identity of merchant server criteria passed in previous step or other information.

In step payment service provider server serves any matching incentives e.g. corresponding to incentive information stored in incentive records of incentive database found to merchant server or multiple merchant server . In response merchant server or multiple merchant server serves such incentives to client device step .

In step client device displays any incentives received from merchant server or multiple merchant server . For example in one embodiment browser application may display a dynamically created webpage provided by merchant server or multiple merchant server that includes one or more embedded JavaScript tags specifying incentives provided by payment service provider server .

Following step the process of continues to steps and which may be performed in the manner described in steps and of respectively.

In other embodiments the various methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users that are not associated with an existing user account . For example in such embodiments merchant server or multiple merchant server may distribute incentive information to potential customers through for example email or advertising campaigns. In this regard the redemption of corresponding incentives may be contingent on such potential customers registering with payment service provider server and utilizing the payment services of payment service provider server during a transaction with merchant server or multiple merchant server .

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described for providing incentive information to users of online payment service providers. Advantageously such incentive information may be directed to particular user accounts maintained by online payment service providers to support targeted marketing efforts by merchants.

In addition as described herein payment service providers may permit users to view all incentives associated with their accounts thereby providing users with a centralized comprehensive approach to manage incentives from a plurality of online merchants. Moreover such incentives may be viewed by users in the context of a trusted payment service provider. As a result merchants and payment service providers can increase the likelihood of users to engage in desired online transactions.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure can be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components can be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data can be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein can be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein can be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present invention whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

Having thus described embodiments of the invention persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the invention is limited only by the claims.

