---

title: Content indexing and searching using content identifiers and associated metadata
abstract: A method of indexing content for network searching comprises obtaining media content signals stored on a computer network; deriving content identifiers from the content signals; using the content identifiers to obtain metadata used to classify the media content signals; and creating a searchable index of the media content signals based on the metadata, wherein users access the searchable index on the distributed computer network to submit a search query for the searchable index to retrieve links to the media content signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041074&OS=08041074&RS=08041074
owner: Digimarc Corporation
number: 08041074
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080513
---
This patent application is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 466 392 filed Aug. 22 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 372 976 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 118 468 filed Apr. 5 2002 Now U.S. Pat. No. 7 095 871 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 282 205 filed Apr. 6 2001.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 118 468 is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 612 177 filed Jul. 6 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 681 029 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 746 613 filed Nov. 12 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 122 403 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 649 419 filed May 16 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 862 260 and 08 508 083 filed Jul. 27 1995 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 841 978 .

application Ser. No. 11 466 392 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 952 384 filed Sep. 11 2001 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 620 019 filed Jul. 20 2000. Application Ser. No. 09 952 384 also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 232 163 filed Sep. 11 2000 and 60 257 822 filed Dec. 21 2000. Application Ser. No. 09 952 384 also claims priority to PCT Application PCT US01 22953 filed Jul. 20 2001.

application Ser. No. 11 466 392 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 636 102 filed Aug. 10 2000 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 191 778 filed Mar. 24 2000.

application Ser. No. 11 466 392 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 840 018 filed Apr. 20 2001 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 507 096 filed Feb. 17 2000 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 482 786 filed Jan. 13 2000 Now U.S. Pat. No. 7 010 144 .

As digital content continues to proliferate management of digital assets becomes an increasingly difficult challenge. Enhancements in computer networking and database technology allow companies to manage large collections of images and other media and make the content available to third parties. While network communication provides a powerful tool to enable the manager of the database to share content with others it makes it more difficult to control and track how the content is being used.

For example some companies maintain extensive databases of images and other media content used to promote their products. Customers or service providers such as advertising and marketing firms can access this content remotely via extranet web site or other file transfer transactions. Though computer networking telecommunication technology facilitates access it makes it difficult to ensure that the customers and services providers are getting the latest content and that they are getting accurate and helpful information relating to the content.

In these applications there is a need to enable digital asset management to reliably link media content with additional data about the content. One way to associate content with information about the content is to place the information in a file header or footer. This approach however is less effective because the information often does not survive file format changes conversion to the analog domain etc. Another way to associate multimedia content with other data is to hide identifying information in the content through data hiding or steganography. Steganography refers to a process of hiding information into a signal. One example of steganography is digital watermarking. Digital watermarking is a process for modifying media content to embed a machine readable code into the data content. The data may be modified such that the embedded code is imperceptible or nearly imperceptible to the user yet may be detected through an automated detection process. Most commonly digital watermarking is applied to media such as images audio signals and video signals. However it may also be applied to other types of data including documents e.g. through line word or character shifting software multi dimensional graphics models and surface textures of objects.

Digital watermarking systems have two primary components an embedding component that embeds the watermark in the media content and a reading component that detects and reads the embedded watermark. The embedding component embeds a watermark by altering data samples of the media content in the spatial temporal or some other transform domain e.g. Fourier Discrete Cosine Wavelet Transform domains . The reading component analyzes target content to detect whether a watermark is present. In applications where the watermark encodes information e.g. a message the reader extracts this information from the detected watermark.

The present assignee s work in content identification steganography data hiding and watermarking is reflected in U.S. Pat. No. 5 862 260 in co pending application Ser. Nos. 09 503 881 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 614 914 and 09 452 023 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 408 082 and in published specifications WO 9953428 and WO0007356 corresponding to U.S. Ser. No. 09 074 034 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 449 377 and 09 127 502 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 345 104 . A great many other approaches are familiar to those skilled in the art. The artisan is presumed to be familiar with the full range of literature about content identification steganography data hiding and watermarking. The subject matter of the present application is related to that disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 862 260 6 122 403 and in co pending application Ser. No. 09 503 881 filed Feb. 14 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 614 914 60 198 857 filed Apr. 21 2000 09 571 422 filed May 15 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 571 09 620 019 filed Jul. 20 2000 and 09 636 102 filed Aug. 10 2000 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

One aspect of the invention is a method for processing media content that comprises obtaining media content signals from a computer network deriving content identifiers from perceptible visual or audio content of the content signals using the content identifiers to obtain metadata used to classify the media content signals and creating a searchable index of the media content signals based on the metadata wherein users access the searchable index on the computer network to submit a search query for the searchable index to retrieve links to the media content signals.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for searching for audio or images comprising from a location in the distributed computer network receiving a query for content signals related to a first content signal the first content signal being part of the query receiving a content identifier derived from perceptible audio or image data of the first content signal using the content identifier to obtain metadata used to classify the first content signal searching a searchable index of media content signals based on the metadata which forms search criteria for the first content signal and returning a set of search results including references to content signals stored in the distributed computer network that correspond to the search criteria.

Further features will become apparent with reference to the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

The user s computer executes a watermark reader application that decodes watermarks from content files such as images audio or video files. It includes network communication software for establishing a network communication with other systems on a network via TCP IP. The reader application communicates watermark information extracted from watermarked content to a router application executing on a router system . The router application maps the watermark information to a corresponding metadata database management system using a registry which includes data records that include the watermark information and associated metadata database information. The router also includes communication software for receiving requests from reader applications and re directing requests to the metadata database system .

The metadata database system manages requests for information from router applications and reader applications. It includes a metadata database that stores information about the content files. In some implementations the content database and metadata database may be integrated.

There are a variety of application scenarios for using embedded watermark data in digital asset management. In one application scenario the reader application operates in conjunction with the router and metadata database to dynamically link content files to information and actions. This scenario operates as follows. The user acquires watermarked content such as images audio or video from a computer network e.g. an extranet web site or e mail . The user provides the content file as input to a watermark reader application using the user interface of the reader. In a windowing user interface environment the user drags and drops the content file from the desktop into the reader UI e.g. a window .

The reader extracts a watermark message embedded in the content within the file and sends it to a routing application. The routing application is accessible on a network via Internet communication protocols such as HTTP XML and TCP IP. The routing application maintains a registry database including a number of database records that associate watermark messages with related information. In one implementation the routing application uses a content identifier extracted from the watermark message to look up a creator identifier. The creator identifier is associated with a metadata database management system. In particular it is associated with a network address of the database management system to which queries are sent to fetch information and actions linked to the content via the watermark.

The routing application sends a request for related information or actions to the metadata database along with the content identifier and the network address e.g. IP address of the reader application. In response the metadata database sends content product specific information from the metadata database to the reader for display in predefined fields within reader UI. The metadata database looks up the content product specific information based on the content identifier.

The metadata may be sent in many different forms. In one implementation the metadata database sends HTML content back to the reader which renders it. In another implementation it sends content in the form of XML. For background on a routing application see U.S. application Ser. No. 09 571 422 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 571 filed May 15 2000.

The information returned to the reader may enumerate links to additional actions such as hyperlinks to web sites additional content files or programs. Some examples of these actions include options to order another version of the watermarked content or products or services depicted in the watermarked content. For example the user can click an option displayed in the reader UI to go to a URL specified by the metadata database for additional functionality such as fetching more information from the metadata database or some other database purchasing related products or services launching a search for related content etc.

In one implementation a search program is implemented as part of the metadata database management system. When the user selects an action to launch a search for related content the reader application sends the request to the metadata database management system. The metadata database looks up corresponding content descriptors for the watermarked content file based on the content identifier. It then searches for other content files represented in the metadata database that have matching descriptors and returns pointers to the related content files to the reader application which displays a listing of them. The user may then click on a listing to fetch and render the selected content file.

In another scenario the functionality of the reader application described above is incorporated into an Internet browser or file browser such as Windows Explorer in the Windows Operating System. Using a web of file browser equipped with watermark reader software e.g. a plug in integrated via an Application Programming Interface or as a shell extension to the operating system the user browses content files. The user may browse rendered versions of the file such as a rendering of an image file a thumb nail of an image or a file icon representing an audio or video file in a file directory structure. As the user scrolls over rendered content such as an image displayed on the user s display monitor or representations of files e.g. file icons in a directory structure the application dialogue appears notifying the user that the content file has additional information available. From this point forward the browser operates in a similar fashion as the reader application described above. The browser renders metadata returned from the metadata database in the form of HTML or XML.

The router system may be implemented within a local area network in which the user s computer resides or may be located on a wide area network such as the Internet. Similarly the metadata database may be implemented within a local area network in which the user s computer resides or may be located on a wide area network such as the Internet.

In some cases the metadata returned to the user s computer may be formatted for the type of computer. For example PDA s cell phones and other consumer electronic devices may have differing display protocols for which the data needs to be formatted for proper rendering. One way to address this is for the reader application to communicate reader device information to the router which in turn provides this information to the metadata database. The metadata database may provide data in the proper format such as a format for display using the Palm Operating system or may route it through an intermediate data formatting server that converts the data before sending it to the reader application.

For example in the diagram of the data formatting server is connected to the network e.g. the Internet and a network for wireless personal digital assistants e.g. the Palm.net network . The wireless PDA extracts a content identifier from a content item e.g. from a watermark in the content item . The PDA sends the identifier to the data formatting server in a message which passes the message to the router .

The router parses the identifier from the message looks up the network address associated with the content identifier and returns it to the data formatting server. Next the data formatting server retrieves the metadata associated with the content identifier from the metadata database located at the network address. Specifically the data formatting server retrieves a web page indexed by the network address returned by the router. Next the data formatting server reformats the metadata for display on the PDA and sends the reformatted data to the PDA for rendering. Specifically if the metadata is a web page the data formatting server reformats the web page for display on the PDA s monitor. For other types of metadata content the data formatting server formats the metadata content for delivery to the PDA and rendering on the PDA such as by converting to a compressed file or a streaming file format like Microsoft s ASF format. This example is applicable to other portable communication devices like wireless phones.

The above processes performed within the data formatting server may be performed in whole or in part on router system metadata database and the content database . For example the router can perform the function of fetching the web page in response to looking up the web page address in the registry and then re formatting the web page for rendering on the PDA device wireless phone or other client device e.g. set top box TV etc. . In addition the router can send information about the client device such as a device ID sent by the reader application to the metadata database which in turn formats the metadata in a format for rendering on the PDA device or wireless phone.

In particular the data formatting functions may be performed in a product handler executing in the router system. The product handler refers to a process described in U.S. application Ser. No. 09 571 422 and incorporated by reference into this patent application.

To improve performance the reader application can be designed to cache watermark data to avoid repeated read operations on the same content. In particular the reader application retains watermark message data decoded from some number of most recently used files along with the name of the files. When the user instructs the reader to fetch related information for a selected file the reader first checks the cache for watermark message data extracted from the file and if present forwards that message data to the router application. Further the reader application may also cache metadata associated with most recently or most frequently accessed media files. This may require additional memory but obviates the need to decode the watermark and fetch the metadata.

While shows a single metadata database the router system may link a watermark message to two or more different metadata databases. The router system can return HTML or XML for example giving the user the option to choose which metadata database he or she would like information from. Alternatively the router can issue multiple requests to each of the metadata databases listed in the registry for a particular watermark message. Each of the metadata databases then return related information to the reader application in response to the router application s request.

In one implementation the metadata is returned to the reader application as XML. This format enables the reader to parse the metadata and format it for display within fields of the reader UI.

Some content files may have multiple different watermarks in different blocks of the content. Each of these watermarks may link to the same or different metadata or metadata database.

The above digital asset management systems and processes may be used advantageously in various combinations with content and metadata searching and indexing systems such as those described in 60 198 857 09 571 422 09 620 019 and 09 636 102. The following section describes systems and processes for content searching and indexing that employ imperceptibly embedded watermark data in combination with other mechanisms for identifying and indexing multimedia content including still images video audio graphics and text.

Peer to peer known as P2P file sharing is the current rage in the Internet. Examples of such systems include Napster AIMster Scour.net Gnutella and FreeNet to name a few. These file sharing systems allow users to share files directly between their computers with a central database or a distributed database that is passed from computer to computer. The file sharing is usually restricted to a certain file type such as music or videos and to a certain directory. These systems are based upon metadata tags in the file headers or footers or filenames and users are concerned about opening their hard drives. For example most MP3 files have a standard ID3 tag v2 in their header or v1 in their footer which includes the song album and artist names. Current file sharing systems only search at the beginning and possibly when the user connects to the file sharing network. This works when you share one small directory and only search for file names and metadata tags. These systems are also usually based upon a proprietary program reporting about one individual computer. These limitations and the fact that the systems work with a restricted file type go hand in hand because it is unknown how to expand the system and remain user friendly.

Web searching is one of the first booms in the Internet. Examples include AltaVista Yahoo Excite and Google to name a few. Web searching allows the user to find information that is distributed on the Internet. However the searching systems have two major problems. The web crawlers that find information can only search around 10 a generous estimate . The web crawler also only locates surface information such as HTML hypertext markup language web page and ignores deep information including downloadable files and database information. Inventors are trying to solve the latter problem with search engines that query web pages and then search thus potentially finding deep database or downloadable files. However this is slower than general searching and can never cover the web.

The unique combination of these two technologies solves the file sharing restrictions and user friendly problems and web searching limitations. The combination includes running web crawlers also known as spiders locally on numerous remote networks domains or computers and having these web crawlers report back to a central or distributed database. This database can be searched via a user interface similar to the one used for current search engines where the user enters keywords or phrases and desired information is returned. As an extension of this user interface a watermark detector may be used to extract a watermark bearing a content identifier and possibly content type tags that are used as input for a search to find related content or information about the content.

Currently only web pages are returned as links in web based search engines. However with this combined system web page links proprietary filename links and database links are returned. Another advantage over current web searching is that rather than the web crawlers running on the web and going from link to link the crawlers run on the local system with the permission and guidelines of the system they are searching. Another advantage is that since the web crawlers are running locally in a user defined i.e. restricted environment they can be designed to look at database entries and non HTML file formats such as word documents MPEG movies and MP3 audio files. An additional advantage is that web crawlers can be running on numerous potentially every local network or within numerous or potentially every domain since they run locally and do not block Internet access by downloading the web information and then scanning it.

Advantages over file sharing systems include searching the whole document for keywords. This novel system also searches for related information such as metadata and watermarks and searches all document types. In addition the local programs are designed for crawling the current computer or local network and not just a specified directory although user defined limitations can exist. Another advantage is that the searching is continuous allowing the search times to be set as to not slow the system during peak hours. Thus this novel system can handle huge amounts of data without network congestion or slow user response.

Finally the system can be designed to search documents for out of band information such as header and footer metadata or in band information such as watermarks so that the files can be classified according to this extra information and not only text. This is extremely useful for non text media files such as images audio and video since search engines currently do not know how to classify these files. For example the watermark may contain keyword information e.g. content type tags about a scene in an image and whether the image is acceptable for viewing by minors an adult content flag .

Having summarized the system and its advantages we now describe an implementation of a system for searching and indexing multimedia content and metadata related to that content. shows components of this system. In this system a web searching agent e.g. search agent thread runs locally on a collection of distributed registered web servers e.g. web server and reports back to a searchable database available for general web searching. In particular the agent invokes watermark detectors to extract content identifiers from watermarks imperceptibly embedded in multimedia content files and fetch related metadata using the metadata linking system described above. Alternatively the watermarks include content type flags that may be used to index the content type without resorting to a metadata database . In addition the agent invokes text based searching of files and file headers and footers to index text content such as word processor documents based on key words. The agents e.g. supply the content type tags from watermarks and key word text to a searchable database that indexes the content type tags and text in a content index . The content index has a searchable index of key words and content tags that are associated with file pointers of files that match the description of the key words content tags. The file pointers provide the location of the corresponding files on the computer network.

The searchable database has a search engine that presents a web based interface enabling users to present key word searches or searches automated by detecting a watermark from a particular content item of interest. In the former case the user supplies a key word search query much like the user interfaces of Google or AltaVista and the searchable database uses the key word query as input to a search of its index for related content. In the latter case a watermark detector such as reader application extracts a watermark from a content file and uses the watermark to derive content type tags for that file. The detector obtains these content type flags either directly from content type tags in the watermark message payload or indirectly from a database look up of a content identifier from the watermark message to content type tags in the metadata database . The watermark detector provides the search engine with one or more content type tags for the content file of interest. The searchable database uses the content type tags and or the keyword search terms to search the index of content and returns pointers to the content items that match the search request. Since the search engine has a web interface it is accessible from remote computers e.g. user s computer via a conventional Internet browser application or other applications with browser capability such as watermark reader application .

The search agents run on computers and computer networks that are difficult to access through conventional web crawler searching. The search agents have a number of parameters that control their operation. In particular the agents have input parameters that enable a web master to specify the directories times and CPU usage for searching e.g. search designated directories between 1 A.M. and 5 A.M. using no more than x of CPU time per machine in each thread of execution . In web servers the search agent can be programmed to minimize interference with request for files to be searched and can be programmed to search redundant copies of content on a web site so as to not interfere with web site content that is accessible for downloading by others.

By running locally on the web server or user s machine the search agent can also search non HTML files such as Word documents PowerPoint presentations spread sheets databases and watermarked media for deep searching. By running in a distributed architecture more content can be searched and categorized. The agent preferably runs as a distributed agent on the web server or local computer network using idle computer processing cycles of computers in the evening or other off peak hours. In addition the searching agent is intelligent. The agent can use search agent technology such as RuleSpace for text and Virage for video categorization.

Images audio and video in the file directory of the web server or local network to be searched are watermarked and categorized based on content tags stored in the router system or metadata database . In particular the content identifier in the watermark embedded in the content is associated with usage rules stored in the router s registry and or metadata database . These usage rules can be used to specify the content type and control how the content is indexed and used by those that access the content via the searchable database . Using this approach more web content can be better categorized thus improving consumers searches and properly indexing every company s web server.

The above system is intended for enabling wider access to content on web servers to others on the Internet via the searchable database that indexes the content. However a similar structure may be used for internal digital asset management DAM within a company s local or wide area computer network. In particular in this configuration the digital asset management system runs within the company s Intranet and the search agent runs on every employee s computer. More specifically each employee marks directories on his computer or network directory that are to be continually searched e.g. the designated directories categorized and reported to the central Intranet search site the searchable database having a repeatedly updated index of accessible content on the Intranet . Each employee moves important documents and watermarked content files to that directory when finished or allows people to search on documents in process. For example as the user creates content files like images audio or video she invokes a watermark embedder application to embed a content identifier or content type tags into an imperceptible watermark embedded in the content. These watermarks enable the search agent to find the content to be indexed in the designated directories and further enable the system to index the watermarked files in the searchable database which is then searchable by others. The searchable database returns pointers to where content files satisfying a search can be found in the Intranet and fetched automatically. In summary the system helps employees of large companies to access and share company information.

As an alternative to a watermark embedder a file header inserter may be used to write content type tags into the header or footer of the file. In this case the search agent is programmed to read the file header footer for content type tags. Otherwise operation of the system is similar.

While the above structure helps locate digital assets and associate usage rules the system also shows the relationship between content items like documents images audio etc. For example when a user finds a document satisfying a search request the user interface of the search engine returns an interface displaying all of the linked files such as for HTML word processor documents etc. and inserted objects such as images audio video etc.

This system advantageously employs digital watermarks and key word text to index content within company networks. The watermarks carry identifiers that link the content to metadata through the router and metadata database. This metadata in turn enables the content to be indexed for searching.

The systems described above overcome key obstacles to effectively associating content with its metadata. One of the key obstacles with any digital asset management system is the cost of inputting the metadata associated with each digital asset file. By using watermarks to identify and link through the router system the system overcomes this obstacle.

To illustrate consider the following example. I take a picture with my digital camera and store the image in my digital asset management DAM system e.g. content database and metadata database system . I enter in associated metadata maybe the name of the beach it was taken on which is stored in the metadata database . The image is watermarked with an Image ID establishing a link between the Image ID and the metadata database entry storing the name of the beach. I now distribute the image to my business partners. One partner takes the image and stores it in his DAM system. This system recognizes the watermark links through the router to the metadata database in my DAM system which responds by supplying all the metadata. This data is then automatically entered into my partner s system improving productivity and accuracy and gaining metadata that could not be determined from the image itself the name of the beach . In this manner the imperceptibly embedded digital watermark in content items enables disparate DAM systems to interoperate and share content items.

Moreover the metadata for a content item stores usage rules that govern where the metadata and content file is allowed to be shared e.g. to a particular authenticated user to a particular authenticated machine etc. . This authentication scheme is implemented by requiring the user who wants access to the content or its metadata to supply authentication data such as a particular computer address password etc.

The system combines two powerful functions automatically indexing content files through the search agent and searchable database and automatically indexing the metadata associated with those content files.

The searchable database may be centralized or distributed over a number of computers interconnected on a network. The content index can be searched from a standard browser as noted above or searched by agents as in the Gnutella system. In file sharing networks the search agent can be programmed to scan files on a user s computer while the computer is connected to the file sharing network. Alternatively the search agent can run on the user s computer in off peak times and create a local index of content on the user s machine. Then whenever the user connects this index created locally by the search agent shares the user s local index with a central content index maintained by the searchable database or a distributed content index database that is shared among users of the file sharing network.

An asset management system is now described with reference to . A content creator develops content audio video images etc. for distribution. During or after content creation the content is registered via a registration authority to obtain a unique identifier ID for the content. The registration process can be electronically automated e.g. via the internet or other network system. The registration authority preferably maintains or communicates with a database which associates the content and or enhanced content with the unique IDs.

Once obtained an identifier is steganographically encoded within the content e.g. in the form of a digital watermark. Of course the content creator the registration authority or a third party may carry out the actual encoding . In one embodiment multiple IDs are associated with a single content item. For example individual identifiers uniquely identify particular audio segments or video sequences. Even objects within a video frame or still image can be identified with a unique identifier. Such embedded identifiers may be used to trigger an action or response or to identify content distributors authors performers etc.

The registered embedded content may be optionally associated with enhanced content. For example in an interactive television system iTV the content may be associated with interactive e.g. enhanced content such as web pages or internet sites graphics audio and video etc. In this case an embedded identifier may correspond to a specific URL or IP address which is maintained in database . For audio based content the embedded identifiers may be similarly associated with enhanced content such as a URL or IP address performer artist record label etc. . Of course instead of storing the enhanced content database may include links to the enhanced data. The relationship between unique identifiers and enhanced content is maintained via database . Of course the registration authority and the enhanced content database may be in communication and in one embodiment may even be functionally combined. .

The embedded media content is packaged. For example video content is reproduced on video cassettes e.g. VHS cassettes or DVDs and audio content is reproduced on CDs audio DVD electronic or magnetic media or tapes etc. etc. The term media package is used to represent both a physical package e.g. VHS cassettes DVD jewel case etc. and or any media content contained therein. .

The physical package is also encoded e.g. digitally watermarked. The encoding of the package can encompass artwork or printing on a package or may include an encoded label certificate media documentation shipping invoice or package container etc. If a line design or graphic is present it too can be encoded. The design and or text on a DVD or CD face can even be encoded. . A variety of watermarking encoding techniques are detailed in the patent documents discussed herein a variety of other encoding techniques are known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques may be suitable employed with the present invention.

The digital watermark embedded within package preferably includes a unique identifier e.g. as payload bits similarly obtained from the registration authority . The package watermark identifier is associated with the packaged content or the watermark embedded therein .

There are many advantages and applications associated with watermarking media content and its respective content package. A few examples are provided below.

In one embodiment procession of the physical package itself is required to facilitate verification registration and or authentication. Consider a video distribution example with reference to . A distributor e.g. broadcaster or cable operator etc. receives the packaged content video in this example . As discussed above the video content includes at least a first watermark and the package itself includes at least a second watermark. The broadcaster in order to register the content and or enable viewer access to enhanced content index database presents the watermarked package to a compliant reading device e.g. a device that is capable of reading the second watermark . The package identifier is extracted from the second watermark and conveyed to the registration authority preferably along with a user broadcaster or network ID. Upon receipt the registration authority permits access of the distributor or its viewer network to the enhanced data stored in database . The authority or database can log that a particular distributor or network has registered the package watermark. Then when a database query is received for the enhanced content e.g. via a media content identifier with the distributor or network ID the distributor or network ID is checked to determined whether registration has occurred. If so database access is permitted. . A digital or other reproduction of the video content without the watermarked package itself will not allow access to the enhanced or interactive content.

In another embodiment both IDs i.e. package and content are required to access the media content. In this case however the package ID provides a key e.g. encryption key or watermark orientation location or decoding key to read the content or to access the content watermark identifier. The package watermark is initially read and information contained therein enables e.g. decodes unscrambles etc. the content or the content watermark. In a case where the package watermark identifier provides access to the content watermark once obtained the content watermark can then be used to unlock or unscramble the media content. Without physical possession of the package and the watermark encoded thereon viewing or listening to the media content is prohibited or impaired.

In still another embodiment a compliant device perhaps a video recorder or audio player reads both the package watermark and the content watermark. The compliant device determines if the watermarks match or corresponds with one another . The compliant device may even query the registration authority or other database to determine if the watermarks coincide. The device operates to play the content only if the watermarks coincide.

In yet another embodiment content is watermarked with a unique identifier as discussed above. The corresponding packaging is also watermarked with a corresponding ID. In this section the term corresponding implies that the watermarks are the same match relate correspond are compatible with or are related to one another via a data record etc. . The packaged content is placed in a retail distribution system. The package watermark is used to manage the content e.g. inventory shelf management etc. For example the package can be read or scanned by a compliant device to determine a quantity content inventory status etc.

So called fragile watermarking may also be utilized to even further enhance security of a package. A fragile watermark is one that does not survive a scan print or copy process. Accordingly a package may be encoded with a fragile watermark in any of the above embodiments. Although a fragile watermark is not robust enough to survive duplication it still provides accurate watermark detection for an original package e.g. the watermarked package. Accordingly a would be pirate may be able to copy the digital content but would be unable to successfully reproduce the watermarked package itself e.g. unable to copy the fragile watermark . Various fragile watermarking techniques are discussed in assignee s U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 689 226 filed Oct. 11 2000 and 09 731 456 filed Dec. 6 2000 and assignee s PCT Publication WO 99 36876 published Jul. 22 1999 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Artisans in the field know other fragile watermarking techniques. Of course such other techniques are suitably interchangeable with the present invention. .

 As an alternative to deter use of precision photocopy apparatuses to reproduce a package face while retaining the associated watermark the face of the package can be provided with a reflective layer e.g. in the form of an overlay or varnish. In the bright illumination of a photocopier such layer mirrors the light back onto the photodetectors preventing them from accurately reproducing the watermark pattern. In contrast when presented to a web cam or other such imaging device no bright illumination is typically present so the photosensors are not overwhelmed and the document can be used for its intended authentication purpose. .

Having described and illustrated the principles of the technology with reference to specific implementations it will be recognized that the technology can be implemented in many other different forms. To provide a comprehensive disclosure without unduly lengthening the specification applicants incorporate by reference the patents and patent applications referenced above.

The methods processes and systems described above may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. For example the watermark data encoding processes may be implemented in a programmable computer or a special purpose digital circuit. Similarly watermark data decoding may be implemented in software firmware hardware or combinations of software firmware and hardware. The methods and processes described above may be implemented in programs executed from a system s memory a computer readable medium such as an electronic optical or magnetic storage device .

The particular combinations of elements and features in the above detailed embodiments are exemplary only the interchanging and substitution of these teachings with other teachings in this and the incorporated by reference patents applications are also contemplated.

