---

title: Personal function pad
abstract: A personal function pad includes a surface that receives and supports a wireless terminal without making a direct electrical contact with the wireless terminal, and a near field communications (NFC) module that receives a first NFC signal from the wireless terminal and responsively transmits a second NFC signal to the wireless terminal. The second NFC signal modifies a setting and/or initiates a function of the wireless terminal. A wireless terminal according to some embodiments includes a controller and an NFC communications module. The NFC module transmits a first NFC signal and receives a second NFC signal in response to the first NFC signal. The controller modifies a device setting and/or to initiates a device function of the wireless terminal in response to the second NFC signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08422944&OS=08422944&RS=08422944
owner: Sony Mobile Communications AB
number: 08422944
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20080812
---
The present invention relates to portable electronic devices and in particular to wireless communication devices and accessories therefor.

Near Field Communication NFC is a wireless communication technology that enables short range communications between closely positioned wireless devices. NFC operates at a frequency of 13.56 MHz which in many countries falls in an unlicensed ISM industrial scientific medical frequency range. The 13.56 MHz ISM band is also used for Radio frequency identification RFID applications such as in systems compliant with the ISO IEC 14443 standard. In fact NFC is an extension of the RFID standard and defines additional communication modes beyond simple RFID mechanisms. Thus an NFC device can communicate with other NFC devices in a peer to peer communication mode as well as with RFID devices in a read write mode.

Like RFID NFC uses magnetic field induction for communication. In magnetic field induction two communicating devices each include loop antennas. When placed in close proximity e.g. less than 20 cm an electrical signal on one of the loop antennas can induce an electrical signal in the other of the loop antennas thus providing a communication path between the devices.

Generally NFC devices can be designed communicate in a passive mode and or an active mode. In the passive mode the antenna of the NFC device listens for a 13.56 MHz signal and responds to the signal as a transponder i.e. transmits a code in response to an interrogation signal. The NFC device may in some cases draw operating power from the electromagnetic field of the signal.

In an active mode the NFC device may independently generate and transmit an electromagnetic signal and subsequently listen for a response to the signal.

In the peer to peer communication mode an NFC device can communicate and exchange data with another NFC device. In the read write mode an NFC device can read a passive device such as an RFID tag. In either case the NFC device may use a standard data exchange format such as the NFC Data Exchange Format NDEF . An NDEF message which is the basic message format used for NFC includes one or more NDEF records each of which contains an NDEF payload of data.

An electronic device according to some embodiments includes a surface configured to receive and support a wireless terminal without making a direct electrical contact with the wireless terminal and a near field communications NFC module configured to receive a first NFC signal from the wireless terminal and to responsively transmit a second NFC signal to the wireless terminal in response to the first NFC signal. The second NFC signal modifies a setting and or initiates a function of the wireless terminal. For example the second NFC signal may instruct the wireless terminal to enter a silent mode in which a ringer of the wireless terminal is disabled.

The electronic device may further include a pad sized to receive a plurality of handheld wireless devices wherein the surface is on the pad.

The NFC module may include an RFID tag that may be configured to transpond the second NFC signal in response to the first NFC signal. Furthermore the NFC module may be configured to draw operating power from the first NFC signal.

In some embodiments the wireless terminal may include a first wireless terminal and the NFC module may be configured to receive the first NFC signal from the first wireless terminal and a third NFC signal from the second wireless terminal and to transmit the second NFC signal to the first wireless terminal in response to the first NFC signal and to transmit a fourth second NFC signal to the second wireless terminal in response to the third NFC signal. The fourth NFC signal modifies a setting and or initiates a function of the second wireless terminal.

A wireless terminal according to some embodiments includes a controller and a near field communications NFC communications module coupled to the controller and operatively controlled by the controller. The NFC module is configured to transmit a first NFC signal and to receive a second NFC signal in response to the first NFC signal. The controller is configured to modify a device setting and or to initiate a device function of the wireless terminal in response to the second NFC signal. For example the controller may be configured to place the wireless terminal in a silent mode in which a ringer of the wireless terminal is silenced in response to the second NFC signal.

The controller may be configured to place the wireless terminal in the silent mode with respect to a first group of callers in response to the second NFC signal and to not place the wireless terminal in the silent mode with respect to a second group of callers in response to the second NFC signal. The controller may be configured to not disable an alarm in the silent mode.

The controller may be configured to cause the NFC module to establish a peer to peer NFC communication path with a further wireless terminal in response to receiving the second NFC signal.

In some embodiments the controller may be configured to establish respective peer to peer NFC communication paths with a plurality of other wireless terminals in response to receiving the second NFC signal and the controller may be configured to receive a user input selecting one of the plurality of other wireless terminals and to automatically synchronize a file with the selected wireless terminal over the respective peer to peer NFC communication path with the selected wireless terminal.

The controller may be configured to automatically synchronize a file with the further wireless terminal over the NFC communication path.

The wireless terminal may further include a Bluetooth communications module and the controller may be configured to disable the Bluetooth communications module in response to the second NFC signal. In some embodiments the wireless terminal may further include a cellular communications module and the controller may be configured to disable the cellular communications module in response to the second NFC signal.

The wireless terminal may be configured to continually transmit the first NFC signal after modifying the device setting and or initiating the device function and the controller may be configured to return the device setting to a previous setting and or to terminate the device function in response to not receiving the second NFC signal in response to the first NFC signal.

The wireless terminal may further include a global positioning system GPS module and the controller may be configured to determine a GPS position of the wireless terminal and to transmit the GPS position of the wireless terminal to a remote device over a data communications network in response to receiving the second NFC signal.

The controller may be configured to initiate playback of an audio and or video file in response to receiving the second NFC signal.

The controller may be configured to transmit a presence status to a remote server over a data communication network in response to receiving the second NFC signal.

An electronic device according to further embodiments includes a surface configured to receive and support a wireless terminal without making a direct electrical contact with the wireless terminal and a near field communications NFC module configured to transmit an NFC signal to the wireless terminal on the surface. The NFC signal modifies a setting and or initiates a function of the wireless terminal.

A wireless terminal according to further embodiments includes a controller and a near field communications NFC communications module coupled to the controller and operatively controlled by the controller wherein the NFC module is configured to receive an NFC signal and wherein the controller is configured to operate in a first operational mode before receiving the second NFC signal and to operate in a second operational mode after receiving the second NFC signal and to revert to the first operational mode after the second NFC signal is no longer received.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Furthermore the various features and regions illustrated in the figures are illustrated schematically. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the relative size and spacing illustrated in the accompanying figures.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method data processing system and or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a circuit or module. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a tangible computer usable storage medium having computer program code embodied in the medium that can be executed by a computer. Any suitable tangible computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices.

Some embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It is to be understood that the functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the operational illustrations. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved. Although some of the diagrams include arrows on communication paths to show a primary direction of communication it is to be understood that communication may occur in the opposite direction to the depicted arrows.

A wireless terminal according to some embodiments is illustrated in . As shown therein an exemplary wireless terminal may be a mobile telephone including a keypad a display a transceiver a memory a microphone a speaker and a camera that communicate with a controller .

The controller can include any standard low power microprocessor and or microcontroller used for mobile telephone applications. The controller can include a signal processor and or a signal processor can be provided as a separate component of the wireless terminal .

The transceiver includes a transmitter circuit a receiver circuit and a modem which cooperate to transmit and receive radio frequency signals to remote transceivers via an antenna . The radio frequency signals transmitted between the wireless terminal and the remote transceivers may comprise both traffic and control signals e.g. paging signals messages for incoming calls which are used to establish and maintain communication with another party or destination. With a cellular communication module the wireless terminal can communicate via base station s using one or more cellular communication protocols such as for example AMPS ANSI 136 GSM GPRS EDGE CDMA wideband CDMA CDMA2000 and UMTS The cellular base stations may be connected to a Mobile Telephone Switching Office MTSO wireless network which in turn can be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN and or another network.

The memory may be a general purpose memory that is used to store both program instructions for the processor as well as data such as audio data video data configuration data and or other data that may be accessed and or used by the controller . The memory may include a nonvolatile read write memory a read only memory and or a volatile read write memory. In particular the memory may include a read only memory in which basic operating system instructions are stored a non volatile read write memory in which re usable data such as configuration information directory information and other information may be stored as well as a volatile read write memory in which short term instructions and or temporary data may be stored. The memory may include a removable nonvolatile memory card.

The wireless terminal further includes a near field communications NFC module that is configured to operate in a peer to peer mode and or in a read write mode. Other modes of operation such as card emulation mode are possible. The NFC module is operatively coupled to the controller and can operate under the control of the controller .

An NFC module is illustrated in more detail in . As shown therein the NFC module can include an antenna a control circuit and an optional memory . The antenna may include a loop antenna that is tuned to transmit receive electromagnetic signals at a frequency of 13.56 MHz. The control circuit controls operation of the NFC module and can include a microprocessor or other control circuitry. The optional memory can store data and or settings used by the control circuit in performing NFC communications. The control circuit can operate in response to instructions from the controller of the wireless terminal . In particular the controller of the wireless terminal can execute a communication API application programming interface that controls operation of the NFC module . The communication API permits application programs executing on the wireless terminal to query and exchange data with other NFC enabled devices according to one or more of the NFC operational modes described above such as read write mode and peer to peer mode.

A personal function pad according to some embodiments is illustrated in in perspective view and B in side view . As shown therein a personal function pad is an electronic device that includes a surface A that is configured to receive and support one or more wireless terminals without making a direct electrical contact with the wireless terminals . As shown in the surface A of the personal function pad may be large enough to support multiple wireless terminals .

The second NFC signal transmitted by the personal function pad causes the wireless terminal to modify a setting and or initiate a function in the wireless terminal . In some embodiments the second NFC signal may be transmitted continuously or continually while the personal function pad is powered on and is not transmitted in response to a first NFC signal from the wireless terminal as will be discussed in more detail below.

Referring to the personal function pad may include only an NFC module that is configured to operate in a passive mode. That is the NFC module may not have a separate power source and may therefore operate using power derived from the first NFC signal transmitted by the wireless terminal . In some embodiments the NFC module in the personal function pad can include an RFID tag that complies with ISO IEC 14443.

Referring to the personal function pad may include a power supply a switch and a processor in addition to the NFC module . Other elements such as a separate memory may also be provided. In the embodiments illustrated in the power supply is only used to power the processor which controls operation of the NFC module . The switch which causes power to be applied from the power supply to the processor may in some embodiments include a proximity sensor and or pressure sensor that senses the presence of a wireless terminal on the surface A. Accordingly in some embodiments the personal function pad may be switched on only when a device is placed on the pad . In further embodiments the switch may also be operated in response to receiving an NFC signal via the NFC module . Thus in order to conserve battery life even if an object is placed on the surface A the switch may disconnect power to the processor if no NFC signal is received within a predetermined time.

In the embodiments illustrated in the NFC module is not connected to the power supply and therefore may draw operating power from a received NFC signal even though the processor is powered. Thus the personal function pad of may operate only in a passive mode although the operation of the NFC module can be modified by the processor . As shown in the embodiments of the switch may also connect the power supply directly to the NFC module which may allow the NFC module to operate in an active mode in the personal function pad .

In some embodiments the NFC signal transmitted by the personal function pad instructs the wireless terminal to enter a silent mode in which a ringer and or alarm of the wireless terminal is disabled so that while the wireless terminal is on the personal function pad the wireless terminal will not activate a ringer or ring tone in response to a call received at the wireless terminal . In some embodiments a ringer can be disabled but an alarm in the wireless terminal may remain enabled.

As an example a personal function pad can be placed on a conference room table in a meeting room. As each meeting attendee enters the room he or she can place their mobile telephone on the personal function pad . Each mobile telephone may disable its ringer in response to the NFC signal transmitted by the personal function pad thereby ensuring that the meeting will not be interrupted by a telephone call to one of the meeting attendees.

In some embodiments the controller can place the wireless terminal in silent mode with respect to a first group of callers in response to the NFC signal and not place the wireless terminal in silent mode with respect to a second group of callers in response to the NFC signal . Thus for example a wireless terminal placed on the personal function pad may not ring in response to calls from callers in the first group but would ring in response to calls from callers in the second group.

Accordingly the personal function pad may be configured to transmit a first NFC signal to a first wireless terminal and a second NFC signal to a second wireless terminal . Each of the wireless terminals can receive an NFC signal from the personal function pad and responsively modify a setting and or initiate a function such as placing itself in a silent mode.

The wireless terminals can take other actions in response to the NFC signal from the personal function pad . For example in response to the NFC signal from the personal function pad the controller of the wireless terminal may be configured to cause the NFC module to establish a peer to peer NFC communication path with the NFC module of the wireless terminal . The wireless terminals may then perform any number of functions such as synchronizing data exchanging files etc. Such synchronization can be performed automatically in response to establishing the peer to peer NFC communication path .

In some embodiments the wireless terminal may further include a Bluetooth communications module and the controller may be configured to disable the Bluetooth communications module in response to the NFC signal from the personal function pad . Similarly the controller may be configured to disable the transceiver in response to the NFC signal from the personal function pad .

The wireless terminal may further include a global positioning system GPS module and the controller may be configured to determine a GPS position of the wireless terminal and to transmit the GPS position of the wireless terminal to a remote device over a data communications network such as the Internet in response to receiving the NFC signal from the personal function pad .

In further embodiments the controller may be configured to initiate playback of an audio and or video file in response to receiving the NFC signal from the personal function pad .

In still further embodiments the controller may be configured to transmit a presence status to a remote server over a data communication network such as the Internet in response to receiving the NFC signal from the personal function pad . Presence status is maintained on a number of communications systems such as instant messaging systems so that other users can determine the status of a user with whom they may want to communicate. Presence information such as user s presence state is typically maintained on a remote server and is supplied to a select group of other users i.e. buddies on a communications system. In response to the NFC signal the controller may cause a presence of unavailable or busy etc. to be transmitted to the remote server so that for example other users will be able to recognize that the user of the wireless terminal is not currently available to view or return an instant message.

In some embodiments the controller is configured to return a device setting that was modified in response to the NFC signal to a previous setting and or to terminate a device function that was initiated in response to the NFC signal once the wireless terminal has been removed from the personal function pad . For example the personal function pad may continually transmit the NFC signal either on its own or in response to first NFC signals from the wireless terminal . When the wireless terminal is removed from the personal function pad and is moved a sufficient distance e.g. greater than 10 cm from the personal function pad then the wireless terminal may no longer receive the NFC signal from the personal function pad. In response to not receiving the NFC signal from the personal function pad the wireless terminal may revert to the state it was in prior to being placed on the pad . For example the wireless terminal may turn its ringer back on.

As noted above in some embodiments the second NFC signal may be transmitted by the personal function pad continuously or continually while the personal function pad is powered on and is not necessarily transmitted in response to a first NFC signal from the wireless terminal . In this sense the personal function pad may act as a beacon and the NFC signal may be a unique beacon signal that is identifiable as being transmitted by a personal function pad . The wireless terminal may look for the beacon signal using its NFC module and modify a setting thereof and or initiate a function thereof in response to receiving the beacon signal from the personal function pad .

The NFC module can communicate through the interface circuit with one or more external devices to obtain data and or settings that can be communicated to the wireless terminal through the NFC communication path established between the NFC module in the pad and the NFC module in the wireless terminal . For example when a wireless terminal is placed on the pad and establishes an NFC communication path with the pad using the NFC signals transmitted between the pad and the wireless terminal the wireless terminal can use the communication path through the interface to the external device to synchronize data e.g. calendar contacts tasks mail etc. with the external device . The wireless terminal can in some embodiments obtain configuration from the pad that can be used to establish alternate communication paths with one or more external devices. For example the wireless terminal can obtain information from the pad via the NFC communication path regarding wireless settings for communicating wirelessly with the workstation the router and or other devices using one or more wireless communication protocols.

As described herein some embodiments of the present invention provide a personal function pad and or a wireless terminal configured to communicate with a personal function pad via an NFC communication path. According to some embodiments an operational mode of the wireless terminal is modified when the wireless terminal is placed on the personal function pad. The operational mode of the wireless terminal can be modified for example by changing at least one setting of the wireless terminal and or initiating a device function of the wireless terminal such as starting an application program playing a song communicating with a remote server etc. When the wireless terminal is removed from the personal function pad the NFC communication path is interrupted and the wireless terminal returns to its previous operational mode.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

