---

title: Physician recommendation system
abstract: A method for recommending a physician, comprising obtaining user feedback for the physician prior to obtaining a plurality of search criteria, obtaining the plurality of search criteria specifying physician expertise, identifying a plurality of physicians based on a search of the plurality of search criteria, wherein the search is performed on a user generated physician expertise data set, performing a comparison of the plurality of physicians, and displaying a recommendation for one of the plurality of physicians based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103524&OS=08103524&RS=08103524
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08103524
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081125
---
The process of choosing a healthcare provider is currently time consuming and tedious. Patients may unsuccessfully meet and spend time with multiple physicians until one is found that suits the patient s specific needs. A variety of factors exist that patients tend to consider when choosing a physican and these factors are not uniform across all patients. Often patients do not have enough information upon which to base a decision. In this very personal choice more physician data leads to more informed decisions which ultimately leads to better patient care.

Current physician finder services often provide relatively scant information and typically depend on ranking systems based on ratings. Further many physician finder systems use rankings based in large part on physician credentials and information of a non qualitative nature. Information based on experiences of other patients with physicians may provide patients with a much richer framework for making informed decisions.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for recommending a physician comprising obtaining user feedback for the physician prior to obtaining a plurality of search criteria obtaining the plurality of search criteria specifying physician expertise identifying a plurality of physicians based on a search of the plurality of search criteria wherein the search is performed on a user generated physician expertise data set performing a comparison of the plurality of physicians and displaying a recommendation for one of the plurality of physicians based on the comparison.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for recommending a physician comprising a processor a memory operatively connected to the processor and a physician recommendation system resident in memory and configured to obtain user feedback for the physician prior to obtaining a plurality of search criteria obtain the plurality of search criteria specifying physician expertise identify a plurality of physicians based on a search of the plurality of search criteria wherein the search is performed on a user generated physician expertise data set perform a comparison of the plurality of physicians and display a recommendation for one of the plurality of physicians based on the comparison.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium storing instructions to recommending a physician the instructions comprising functionality to obtain user feedback for the physician prior to obtaining a plurality of search criteria obtain the plurality of search criteria specifying physician expertise identify a plurality of physicians based on a search of the plurality of search criteria wherein the search is performed on a user generated physician expertise data set perform a comparison of the plurality of physicians and display a recommendation for one of the plurality of physicians based on the comparison.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for recommending a physician based on user generated content. In general embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for creating a recommendation based on experiences with a physician. In general embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for comparing physicians to choose one best suited for an individual s needs.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a browser is configured to display a graphical user interface GUI associated with the physician recommendation system . Those skilled in the art having benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many ways in which a GUI may be viewed other than using a browser.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a physician recommendation system contains an analytical logic module and a GUI module . The physician recommendation system is configured to recommend a physician to a user based on existing user data. The GUI module is configured to enable a GUI for display in the browser . The analytical logic module is configured to create recommendations for physicians based on user data.

The physician recommendation system may be used for identifying a general physician based on specific search criteria identifying a specialist based on specific search criteria identifying a physician that is part of a specific practice asking another user of their opinion of a specific physician scheduling an appointment with a physician providing feedback on a specific physician after having an appointment with him her and providing other users with general recommendations on physicians seen in the past.

The physician recommendation system may also be associated with a financial application in that the financial application is a data source and or input source for the system . Those skilled in the art having benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many other uses for the physician recommendation system and that the physician recommendation system may be applied to recommendations for other professional services e.g. restaurants lawyers schools and so forth .

In one or more embodiments of the invention a data repository is configured to store data associated with the physician recommendation system . The data repository may be any sort of system capable of storing data such as a relational database a database management system a hierarchical file a flat file etc. The data repository may be directly connected with the physician recommendation system or through various network configurations e.g. wired wireless LAN WAN .

In STEP search criteria is obtained. In one or more embodiments of the invention the search criteria is obtained from a user. Primary search criteria may include how many patients have seen a specific physician within a specific time period e.g. the last year how many patients specified a physician as their favorite physician a physician s specialty e.g. PCP pediatrician neurologist orthopedic surgeon a physician s location a physician location range from a user e.g. within 5 miles accepting new patients e.g. yes experience with a particular medical procedure e.g. radiofrequency ablation MAZE procedure experience treating a particular medical condition e.g. atrial fibrillation bradycardia tachycardia experience treating patients of a particular age e.g. over 50 experience treating patients of a particular gender e.g. females group practice e.g. PAMF education e.g. degrees names of institutions locations years of graduations ranking within institutions credentials e.g. board certifications special awards honors gender e.g. female languages spoken e.g. English Spanish office hours e.g. after 5 PM a physician s age e.g. less than 60 and a physician s application of alternative medicine e.g. active . Secondary search criteria may also be obtained to further refine a search beyond the primary search criteria. Secondary search criteria may include subspecialty e.g. pediatric Ear Nose Throat ENT pediatric behavioral disorders experience details e.g. name of procedures performed name of conditions treated treated patients ages and genders and further educational details e.g. medical schools by rank Ph.D. J.D. etc. .

Continuing with physicians are identified STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention physicians may be identified by the physician recommendation system of . A results list of physicians may be presented to a user based on a ranking of user physician experience data according to the criteria specified by a user. The results may be ordered with the highest ranking physician as the first entry and the lowest ranking physician as the last entry. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that various ways exist in which physicians are identified ranked and displayed.

Continuing with physicians are compared STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention the physicians may be compared by the physician recommendation system of . A user may compare two or more physicians in a side by side view. A user may review information that is likely to help him her decide between physicians e.g. experience subspecialty photo physician s personal statement location and office hours as well as information regarding appointments. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be various manners in which a user may compare physicians. After comparing physicians a user may select a physician from the list of physicians being compared.

Continuing with a recommendation is displayed STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention the recommendation may be displayed by the physician recommendation system of in the browser of . The recommendation reflects the final physician selected by a user from a list of recommendations based on selection criteria. The recommendation may be in the form of a complete physician profile devoted to detailed information about the physician. Additional features included in the physician profile beyond the aforementioned search criteria information may include links to external recommendation systems as well as a link to search engine results based on the physician s name map results based on the physician s office location and the like. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many other features associated with a physician profile.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the physician recommendation system of may enable patients to streamline the process of finding a physician that suits their needs and may allow both patients and physicians to reduce time spent in the process of identifying a suitable patient physician match. It may also allow insurance companies to streamline their expenses. Moreover revenues may be generated from physician membership fees consumer membership fees company licensing online advertising as well as partnerships and transactions involving mined user data. Those skilled in the art having benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many other ways in which the system may make the physician identification process more efficient as well as many other ways through which the system may generate revenue streams.

In STEP search criteria is submitted. The search criteria may be submitted by a user. See STEP for details of search criteria. A user may be required to provide login information e.g. username and password if he she attempts to access any features that require recognition of the user e.g. save searches favorites reminders . A user may search for a specific physician if for example the user would like to look up information on that specific physician and knows the physician s name or other information. In this case a user may search based on physician information including last name first name location specialty and so forth. Additionally a user may also search for a physician based on a help wizard feature in which the user would be asked specific questions regarding their preferences for a physician and provide responses to be used as search criteria. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many different types of search criteria and mechanisms for many different types of searches beyond what has been described. In one or more embodiments of the invention user typographical errors are corrected when errors are made within search fields requiring manual entry. For instance if a user misspells a medical term or a name a user is prompted whether he she really meant something else i.e. a medical term that may have the correct spelling and submits search criteria according to the user s response in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

Continuing with a search for a physician is performed STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention the search is performed by a user. In such an embodiment the user submits the search criteria from STEP and physicians are searches for and ranked according to the search criteria. The physicians may be ranked according to the number of times a particular physician has been saved as a favorite physician. Therefore the highest ranking physician would be the physician that is the most popular among patients or potential patients. Another method of ranking physicians involves filtering recommendations based on users with common attributes. Thus the highest ranking physician would be one that has been saved as a favorite physician by other users with similar demographic characteristics as a current user searching for a physician. Yet another ranking methodology may include ranking physicians based on the number of times that they are chosen as potential physicians by a user. Additionally rankings may be based on the number of times a physician has actually been scheduled for appointments with users. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many different ranking methodologies that may be employed. After ranking the physicians a set of ordered results of physicians that best qualify according to the search criteria is produced in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

Continuing with results for the search performed in STEP are viewed STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention the search results are viewed by a user. The search results may be presented in the form of an ordered list of physicians. Display of search results may be limited to a manageable number of items per page e.g. 5 with GUI navigation to previous and next pages. The display of search results may include the selection criteria information e.g. group practice and the physician s photograph. A quick view or rollover feature may enable more information when a user performs a mouse over on a physician s name or photograph in the form of a pop up window with additional details. The quick view may include a physician s information including personal statement address phone URL of the physician s website office hours and a link to a map of the location of his her office. Additionally columns in the results list with numerical data may be sorted high to low or vice versa.

Continuing with physicians identified from the results of STEP are compared with each other STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention comparison of physician is performed by a user. See STEP for details regarding comparing physicians. In STEP the search results are saved. Saving search results may be performed by a user. After completing the search performed in STEP the search results may be saved with a specifying title. The criteria may be stored and ordering of the results in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Saved results can be accessed at a later time and the saved results are updated with any changes that may occur to the physician s profiles in the time between accesses. Subsequent to STEP the process proceeds to STEP .

Continuing with a determination is made whether a suitable physician is found STEP . If a determination is made that a suitable physician has been identified then the process proceeds to STEP . If a determination is made that a suitable physician has not been identified then the process proceeds to STEP . In STEP it is determined that a suitable physician has not been found and therefore the search results are modified and or filtered. The search results may be modified or filtered by a user. In one or more embodiments of the invention a help link provides advice on how to further sort and filter search results. A description of filtering details may be found in STEP . Subsequently the process returns to STEP . In STEP it is determined that a suitable physician has been found and thus the physician s profile is viewed. The physician s profile may be viewed by a user. A description of a physician profile may be found in STEP . Additionally a more like this feature may provide users with a means for viewing additional physician profiles with similar criteria results.

In STEP the physician s profile is saved as a favorite in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Saving the physician s profile may be performed by a user and may allow the user to log out of the physician recommendation system of and later log in and access the saved physician profile from a list of favorite physicians. In one or more embodiments of the invention users annotate or tag comments to a physician s profile in their favorite list.

Continuing with the physician s profile is compared with another physician s profile STEP . In one or more embodiments of the invention the comparison of physician profiles is performed by a user. A description of a physician comparison may be found in STEP .

In STEP the physician s profile is shared. In one or more embodiments of the invention sharing the physician s profile is performed by a user. A user may email or text message a physician s profile to another user or another doctor for recommendation or suggestion of a specialty provider. The user may attach personal comments through the email or text messaging system. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that there will be many ways in which a user may share a physician s profile with other users and that this feature is not limited to email or text messaging.

In STEP an appointment is scheduled. In one or more embodiments of the invention the scheduling of an appointment is performed by a user. A user may have located a physician that fulfills their needs and now schedules an appointment. The user would accept a date and time for an available appointment with the physician and select whether to be reminded by email phone or text message providing such information as appropriate.

In STEP an appointment reminder is received. In one or more embodiments of the invention the appointment reminder is received by a user at a predetermined time before an appointment. By noting the difference between the date of the reminder and the date of the appointment the average wait time may be determined in an effort to obtain an appointment with a specific physician. Various other metrics may similarly be mined from the user data. Additionally after the scheduled appointment date the user may be sent a follow up message requesting user feedback on the physician appointment.

In an exemplary user feedback loop is demonstrated. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that the sequence of steps shown in may differ among embodiments of the invention and that one or more of the steps may be optional.

In STEP physician feedback is input into the physician recommendation system of in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The input may be based on previous experiences with a specific physician and may reveal both positive and negative aspects of those experiences e.g. physician was very easy to work with physician did not discuss concerns of patient sufficiently etc. . The experiences may relate to a specific medical condition or may be very broad in nature e.g. during a radiofrequency catheter ablation procedure physician A achieved sufficient transmural lesions such that patient B did not have to return for a second procedure physician is generally friendly etc. . Additionally implicit feedback may be provided by a user of the system. Implicit feedback may be the actions performed by a user in the physician recommendation system of relating to interactions with physicians and their profiles. Implicit feedback may be captured by the physician recommendation system of and may be considered data mining of a user s actions within the physician recommendation system of . Recommendations may then be generated based on implicit user feedback. In this way user generated content provides the system with data with which to aggregate.

Continuing with a search for physicians based on existing feedback is performed STEP . The search may include specific criteria such as type of practice sub specialty years of practice educational background ease of interaction efficacy of procedures general ratings and the like. A search may also be associated with a specific medical condition or a specific treatment. See the description of STEP for more details on search criteria. The results of the search are user generated comments and data based on experiences of previous patients of those physicians. In this way user generated data is used to recommend a set of physicians.

In STEP a selection of a physician is performed based on existing feedback. The selection may be performed by a user of the system. Once the results to the search of STEP are received a user may select a physician from those recommended by other previous patients. The selection may be based on a further refined search of the first round of search results with increasingly specified criteria e.g. physician must be within 50 miles of a certain location physician must be of a certain health care provider and so forth . In this way user generated data is used to select a final physician i.e. a final physician is recommended .

In STEP experiences are formed with selected physicians and feedback on those physicians is developed. The experiences may be formed and feedback developed by a user of the system. This feedback occurs after the recommendation of a physician is made to a user. Prior to visiting the selected physician a user may also make an appointment with that physician and receive a reminder for the appointment made with the physician. In this way user generated content based on experience with a physician is developed which will further be input into the system as demonstrated in STEP . The process proceeds in such a fashion and the more user generated content is input the more efficient it becomes at generating targeted and relevant physician recommendations for a user.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data sources A and Z are configured to provide data to an aggregate data repository . The aggregate data repository is configured to store aggregated data from the data sources. For the purposes of this discussion aggregated means grouped together . For example if the aggregate data repository is a database data from the data sources may be grouped together in one or more tables of the database. Alternatively aggregated data may be grouped together as cells in a spreadsheet fields of an extensible markup language XML document or in any other aggregated format. Those skilled in the art having benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that data may be stored and aggregated in many different ways.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources e.g. data source A and data source Z include one or more users of the physician recommendation system e.g. potential patients searching for recommendations for physicians . Data from the data sources may include information about the users such as name address healthcare information and information about a particular physician associated with the user e.g. physician s name physician s address physician s practice area as well as user comments on experiences with a physician. See the description of STEP for more details regarding data. In one or more embodiments of the invention users may upload data to one or more aggregate data repositories associated with the data sources.

In one or more embodiments of the invention an authentication service is configured to restrict access to the aggregate data repository . Specifically the authentication service is configured to ensure that only authorized users are given access to the aggregate data repository through the physician recommendation system . For example the authentication service may require a user to present a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential recognized as valid by the authentication service . Additionally the authentication service may remove or restrict access to identifying or personal information in the aggregate data repository before allowing access to a user . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is located in a local area network LAN and the authentication service includes a firewall protecting the LAN from unauthorized access.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a physician recommendation system is configured to provide recommendations on physicians to users. See the description of for more details regarding the physician recommendation system .

In one or more embodiments of the invention a user e.g. a physician may request information e.g. patient transfer details about another user e.g. a patient transferring to the physician from another physician from the physician recommendation system .

In view of the above in one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources may be thought of as input for the aggregate data repository because the data sources are used to input data to the aggregate data repository . Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the physician recommendation system may be thought of as output for the aggregate data repository because the physician recommendation system generates output based on the data in the aggregate data repository . Specifically the physician recommendation system generates output in the form of data for users and may also be configured to generate other types of output based on data from the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments of the invention the aggregate data repository is communicatively coupled with application programming interfaces APIs and GUIs not shown that allow input services and or output services to interact with the aggregate data repository .

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer system may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network with wired and or wireless segments via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. various modules and or components shown in and described above may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions for performing embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

