---

title: Layout determination
abstract: A device includes a processor and a computer-readable medium including computer-readable instructions. Upon execution by the processor, the computer-readable instructions cause the device to receive a first request from a second device, where the first request is a layout request that includes an identification of a space. The computer-readable instructions also cause the device to provide a second request to a third device, where the second request includes the identification of the space. The computer-readable instructions also cause the device to receive one or more dimension corresponding to the space, and to provide the one or more dimension to the third device. The computer-readable instructions further cause the device to receive a generated layout from the third device, and to provide the generated layout to the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694932&OS=08694932&RS=08694932
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08694932
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
The layout of a given area can be based on many factors including the type of the area the location of the area the value of the area design preferences etc. For example the layout of a typical living room may include a couch a love seat a fireplace and an entertainment center. The layout of the typical living room may also include flooring which can be wood tile and grout carpet vinyl etc. The layout of an athletic field may include turf bleachers player benches goals concession stands restroom facilities etc. Planning the layout for a given area can include selecting the type and quantity of materials to placed in the area.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and make part of this disclosure.

Illustrative systems methods devices computer readable media etc. are described for determining a layout. In an illustrative embodiment a layout can be determined using a middleware system and a cloud computing system. The middleware system which can be used in part to facilitate communication between the cloud computing system and a user computing device can receive a layout request and dimensions of a space whose layout is to be determined. The middleware system can provide the layout request and the dimensions to the cloud computing system. The middleware system can also receive layout options provide the layout options to the user computing device receive layout selections from the user computing device and provide the layout selections to the cloud computing system. The cloud computing system can generate the layout based at least in part on the dimensions and the layout selections. The middleware can provide the generated layout to the user computing device.

With reference to a block diagram of a layout determination system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Layout determination system can include one or more user computing devices . . . a middleware system a cloud computing system and a measuring device . The one or more user computing devices . . . may be a computer of any form factor including a laptop a desktop a server an integrated messaging device a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone an ipod etc. Measuring device can be a manual or automated rangefinder which is configured to identify a perimeter of an area. Alternatively any other type of measuring device known to those of skill in the art may be used. The devices associated with the one or more user computing devices . . . middleware system cloud computing system and measuring device may communicate with each other using a network .

Network may include one or more type of network including a cellular network a peer to peer network the Internet a local area network a wide area network a Wi Fi network a Bluetooth network etc. Cloud computing system can include one or more servers and one or more databases . A cloud computing system refers to one or more computational resources accessible over a network to provide users on demand computing services. The one or more servers can include one or more computing devices . . . which may be computers of any form factor. The one or more databases can include a first database . . . and an nth database . The one or more databases can be housed on one or more of the one or more servers or may be housed on separate computing devices accessible by the one or more servers directly through wired or wireless connection or through network . The one or more databases may be organized into tiers and may be developed using a variety of database technologies without limitation. The components of cloud computing system may be implemented in a single computing device or a plurality of computing devices in a single location in a single facility and or may be remote from one another.

With reference to a block diagram of a user computing device of layout determination system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. User computing device can include an input interface an output interface a communication interface a computer readable medium a processor and a layout determination application . Different and additional components may be incorporated into user computing device without limitation. Layout determination application provides a graphical user interface with user selectable and controllable functionality. Layout determination application may include a browser application or other user interface based application that interacts with middleware system to allow a user to request a layout provide selections of layout options to middleware system and receive a generated layout from middleware system .

Input interface provides an interface for receiving information from the user for entry into user computing device as known to those skilled in the art. Input interface may interface with various input technologies including but not limited to a keyboard a pen and touch screen a mouse a track ball a touch screen a keypad one or more buttons etc. to allow the user to enter information into user computing device or to make selections presented in a user interface displayed using a display under control of layout determination application . Input interface may provide both an input and an output interface. For example a touch screen both allows user input and presents output to the user. User computing device may have one or more input interfaces that use the same or a different interface technology.

Output interface provides an interface for outputting information for review by a user of user computing device . For example output interface may include an interface to a display a printer a speaker etc. The display may be any of a variety of displays including but not limited to a thin film transistor display a light emitting diode display a liquid crystal display etc. The printer may be any of a variety of printers including but not limited to an ink jet printer a laser printer etc. User computing device may have one or more output interfaces that use the same or a different interface technology.

Communication interface provides an interface for receiving and transmitting data between devices using various protocols transmission technologies and media. The communication interface may support communication using various transmission media that may be wired or wireless. User computing device may have one or more communication interfaces that use the same or different protocols transmission technologies and media.

Computer readable medium is an electronic holding place or storage for information so that the information can be accessed by processor . Computer readable medium can include but is not limited to any type of random access memory RAM any type of read only memory ROM any type of flash memory etc. such as magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards flash memory devices etc. User computing device may have one or more computer readable media that use the same or a different memory media technology. User computing device also may have one or more drives that support the loading of a memory media such as a CD a DVD a flash memory card etc.

Processor executes instructions as known to those skilled in the art. The instructions may be carried out by a special purpose computer logic circuits or hardware circuits. Thus processor may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination of these methods. The term execution is the process of running an application or the carrying out of the operation called for by an instruction. The instructions may be written using one or more programming language scripting language assembly language etc. Processor executes an instruction meaning that it performs the operations called for by that instruction. Processor operably couples with input interface with output interface with communication interface and with computer readable medium to receive to send and to process information. Processor may retrieve a set of instructions from a permanent memory device and copy the instructions in an executable form to a temporary memory device that is generally some form of RAM. User computing device may include a plurality of processors that use the same or a different processing technology.

With reference to a block diagram of middleware system of layout determination system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Middleware system can include an input interface an output interface a communication interface a computer readable medium a processor and layout determination architecture . Different and additional components may be incorporated into middleware system without limitation. For example middleware system may include a database that is directly accessible by middleware system or accessible by middleware system using a network. Middleware system may further include a cache for temporarily storing information communicated to middleware system . Input interface provides similar functionality to input interface . Output interface provides similar functionality to output interface . Communication interface provides similar functionality to communication interface . Computer readable medium provides similar functionality to computer readable medium . Processor provides similar functionality to processor .

Layout determination architecture can include a layout determination interface application an application engine business components and a hardware abstraction layer . Layout determination interface application includes the operations associated with interfacing between cloud computing system and user computing device to process a request for a layout to receive selections of layout options from user computing device to provide the selected layout options to cloud computing system to receive a generated layout from cloud computing system and or to provide the generated layout to user computing device . Layout determination architecture includes functionality to support input layout measurements input scanned or otherwise automatically input layout info input manual measurements present layout options present layout options with certain defined specifications such as material sizes trim color pattern edging design space between design elements return design rendering send options to third parties third party devices break down number of specific materials needed create materials list show cost of materials show estimated cost of labor order materials from vendor. A use rating and durability rating may also be estimated based upon the materials and design of the project weighed against the likely uses of the project. Layout determination architecture also includes functionality to consider the size of the space to be laid out minus the size of materials minus the edging and the spacing between materials to determine possible configurations specific numbers of materials needed and projected associated costs.

With reference to a block diagram of modules associated with cloud computing system of layout determination system is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Cloud computing system can include an interface module a service catalog a provisioning tool a monitoring and metering module a system management module and the one or more servers . Different and additional components may be incorporated into cloud computing system without limitation. For example cloud computing system may further include the one or more databases . Middleware system interacts with interface module to request services. Service catalog provides a list of services that middleware system can request. Provisioning tool allocates computational resources from the one or more servers and the one or more databases to provide the requested service and may deploy received information for generation of a layout at the one or more servers . Monitoring and metering module tracks the usage of the one or more servers so the resources used can be attributed to a certain user possibly for billing purposes. System management module manages the one or more servers . The one or more servers can be interconnected as if in a grid running in parallel.

Interface module may be configured to allow selection of a service from service catalog . A request associated with a selected service may be sent to system management module . System management module identifies an available resource s such as one or more of servers and or one or more of databases . System management module calls provisioning tool to allocate the identified resource s . Provisioning tool may deploy a requested stack or web application as well.

With reference to illustrative operations performed by cloud computing system are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. In an operation a layout request is received from middleware system . The layout request can be a request for a simulated layout of one or more space. For example the layout request may be for tile and grout for the floor of a bathroom for sod for an athletic field for trees to be planted in an open space for plants to be planted in a garden for the placement of vehicles on a car lot for road design for swimming pool design for merchandise placement in a department or grocery store for lighting layout etc. In an illustrative embodiment the layout request can identify the type of space i.e. bedroom living room kitchen exercise room garage indoor athletic field outdoor athletic field open field garden road swimming pool car lot ceiling etc. for which the layout is to be determined.

In an operation dimensions of the one or more space are received. In one embodiment the dimensions can be received from middleware system . Alternatively the dimensions may be received directly from measurement device . In an illustrative embodiment the dimensions can correspond to a perimeter of the one or more space. For example the dimensions can correspond to the perimeter of a kitchen floor which is to receive tile and grout. Measurement device which may be a laser based distance determination device can be mounted at a static location in the kitchen. Measurement device can be manually or automatically rotated about the kitchen to determine a perimeter of the kitchen based on reflections from the kitchen walls cabinets etc. Depending on the shape of the kitchen measurement device may be placed at more than one static location to determine an accurate representation of the kitchen perimeter. Alternatively the dimensions may be obtained using a tape measure or other manual device. In open spaces i.e. with no walls such as fields doorways etc. reflectors may be placed around the perimeter such that measurement device is able to determine the dimensions.

In an operation a determination is made regarding whether the layout request identifies more than one space. If the layout request identifies more than one space information regarding the relationship between the spaces is received in an operation . The information can may be requested by cloud computing system or automatically received from middleware system . The information can indicate that each space is a distinct space which is independent of the other spaces that two or more spaces are at least partially adjacent to one another that two or more spaces are at different elevations etc. The information can also indicate how a first space is situated with respect to a second adjacent space such that an accurate layout of the composite space including the first space and the second space can be obtained. Regardless of the number of spaces in an operation one or more area is generated based on the dimensions and or the received information. If the layout request is for a single space a single area corresponding to the single space can be generated. If the layout request is for two or more spaces which are at least partially adjacent to one another a composite area corresponding to the two or more spaces can be generated. If the layout request is for two or more spaces which are not adjacent to one another two or more distinct areas can be generated.

In an operation one or more layout option is provided to middleware system . The layout option can be one or more option regarding components to be placed in the one or more space such that the layout can be generated and simulated. The layout option can include the type s of components to be placed in the space the brand of the components the cost of the components the size of the components the shape of the components the color of the components etc. For example in the context of a layout for flooring in a room the layout option can include a type of flooring a pattern of the flooring a brand of the flooring a cost of the flooring a color of the flooring etc. In an operation one or more selection of the one or more layout option is received from middleware system . In an illustrative embodiment provision of the one or more layout option and receipt of the one or more selection can be iterative. For example a first layout option may request a type of component to be placed in the space and a first selection may indicate that the layout is to include flooring only. A second layout option may request a type of flooring and a second selection may indicate tile and grout. A third layout option may request a shape and color of the tile and a third selection can identify the shape and the color of the tile. A fourth layout option may request a base to be placed underneath the tile a fifth layout option may request a width of the grout to be used between tiles a sixth layout option may request whether grout or tile is to be placed adjacent to the perimeter of the room and so on.

In an operation a layout is generated and in an operation the generated layout is provided to middleware system . In an illustrative embodiment the layout can be determined based on the one or more selection the received dimensions of the one or more space and the generated one or more area. The layout can identify an amount of materials for satisfying the one or more selection and or a cost of the materials. The layout can also be detailed. For example a tile layout can include partial tiles. The layout can also include a real time visual simulation of the generated layout. In another illustrative embodiment the layout can be dynamic such that an end user can change the one or more selection the dimensions etc. to see how the layout changes in real time. In one embodiment the layout can also include tips and or suggestions based at least in part on previously generated layouts or predetermined layouts which may be created with the assistance of design experts.

With reference to illustrative operations performed by user computing device are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. In an operation a layout request is provided to middleware system . In an illustrative embodiment the layout request can include a type of one or more space for which the layout is requested. If the layout request is with respect to more than one space the layout request can also include information regarding the relationship between the spaces. In an operation dimensions of the one or more space are provided to middleware system . The dimensions can be obtained from measurement device from a tape measure or using any other measurement method. In an alternative embodiment the dimensions may automatically be provided from measurement device to middleware system and or cloud computing system .

In an operation one or more layout option is received from middleware system . In an operation one or more selection of the one or more layout option is provided to middleware system . In an operation a layout is received from middleware system . In an illustrative embodiment a user can make changes to the layout to determine how the appearance cost etc. change. In another illustrative embodiment changes can be made to the layout by cloud computing system and an updated layout can be provided to user computing device in real time. The layout can be saved on user computing device or remotely using middleware system and or cloud computing system .

With reference to illustrative operations performed by middleware system are described. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the embodiment. The order of presentation of the operations of is not intended to be limiting. Middleware system defines the parameters for processing a layout request from user computing device using application programming interfaces for example associated with operating system compatibility display capability media player capability etc. Middleware system defines similar parameters for interacting with cloud computing system .

In an operation a layout request is received from user computing device . If the layout request identifies more than one space the layout request may include information regarding a relationship between the spaces. Alternatively the information regarding the relationship may be requested by cloud computing system after receipt of the layout request. In an operation dimensions corresponding to one or more space are received. The dimensions can be received from user computing device and or from measurement device . In an operation the layout request and the dimensions are provided to cloud computing system . In an operation one or more layout option is received from cloud computing system . Alternatively the one or more layout option may be stored at middleware system for provision to user computing device and or cloud computing system . In an operation the one or more layout option is provided to user computing device . In an operation one or more selection is received from user computing device . In an operation the one or more selection is provided to cloud computing system . In an operation a layout is received from cloud computing system and in an operation the layout is provided to user computing device .

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

