---

title: System and method for printing target colors with process colors utilizing parallel feedforward neural networks
abstract: A system and method for printing target colors includes a print-engine interface and a neural network component. The print-engine interface is in operative communication with a print engine of a printing system. The neural network component is calibrated to the print engine for printing a target color on a substrate. The neural network is in operative communication with the print-engine interface and communicates a parameter associated with printing the target color on the substrate utilizing the print engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08208170&OS=08208170&RS=08208170
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08208170
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081010
---
The present disclosure relates to printing systems and in particular to a system and method for printing target colors with process colors utilizing parallel feedfoward neural networks.

In most multi color printing systems multiple color separations are used for marking a substrate e.g. paper. Each of these color separations mark the substrate with a single colorant that is each separation marks the substrate with only one specific colorant which is different from the colorants of the other color separations. The colorants commonly used are cyan magenta yellow and black also referred to as CMYK. These colorants are commonly referred to as process colors because of their wide availability and universal usage. Colorant refers for example to pigments dyes mixtures thereof such as mixtures of dyes mixtures of pigments mixtures of dyes and pigments and the like. These colorants are also commonly referred to as inks or toners and for the purposes of the disclosed subject matter these terms are to be considered interchangeable. Additionally the term printing system is considered equivalent to and interchangeable with an image forming apparatus a printer a printing machine a copier a facsimile machine a multifunction device e.g. a scanner integrated with a printer a electrophotography device a xerography device an electrophotographic device a electrostatographic device and or the like.

As previously mentioned multi color printing systems utilize a limited number of color separations for marking a substrate however a much wider variety of colors is achievable. Each separation marks the substrate using discrete shapes such as dots having a circular or oval shape or periodic line patterns which in aggregate create a larger set of colors for perception. This concept is generally known as color half toning and involves combining two or more patterned separations on the substrate. The selection of color separations and halftone pattern designs are carefully chosen for achieving a desired color.

Although some multi color printing schemes use CMYK color separations one technique utilizes a single colorant to precisely print a specific color. These colorants are specially made and are added to the printing system as a fifth color or as a single color in specially made printing systems. More precise colorants are usually referred to as spot colors because they are applied on a particular spot of the substrate. One system of categorizing spot colors is referred to as the pantone color color system. These spot colors are used to precisely display colors such as in logos trademarks service marks and brands because it is desirable for a company or institution to have the public at large and especially customers to readily recognize these types of reproduced items. Target colors are defined herein as a color desired by a user machine process software a printing system technician a graphics artist and the like for printing with sufficient precision of expected human perception in other words a target color is some color that has to be obtained with sufficient precision such as by using CMYK colors or with the addition of some specially bended toner or ink e.g. CMYK .

Pantone colors and spot colors may be a target color of a printing system. Target colors may be obtained using the CMK color separations using specially blended toners or inks or using printing systems having more than four color separations e.g. CMYK systems. Accurate and repeatable colors facilitate easy recognition of these reproduced items slowly over time and after several repeated exposures making these items easily recognizable by the public at large.

Most printer manufactures make special inks for spot color printing however there is customer demand for using the process color for spot color printing as well. Using CMYK color separations to make spot colors requires color printing accuracy. Additionally the color accuracy should be uniform across multiple print engines although there may be slight manufacturing differences between print engines of different models or between print engines of the same printer models.

The present disclosure relates to printing systems and in particular to a system and method for printing target colors with process colors utilizing parallel feedfoward neural networks.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a system for printing target colors includes a print engine interface and a neural network component. The print engine interface is in operative communication with a print engine of a printing system. The neural network component is calibrated to the print engine for printing a target color on a substrate. The neural network is in operative communication with the print engine interface and communicates a parameter associated with printing the target color on the substrate utilizing the print engine. The print engine may utilize four or more colorants e.g. a CMYK print engine or a print engine that utilizes more than four colorants.

The neural network component can include one or more neural networks e.g. feedfoward neural networks. One or more of the neural networks can be arranged in parallel and one or more may be a three layer neural network or a more than three multi layer neural network. Additionally or alternatively the system may be an installable module installable in a printing system.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure each of the neural networks can be adapted to receive a set of inputs e.g. the set of inputs may point within one of a Hunter 1948 L a b color space a CIE 1976 L a b color space and or a CIE 1931 XYZ color space. Also each neural network of the system can output one or more parameters associated with printing the target color on the substrate utilizing the print engine such as a control parameter for controlling a color separation of the print engine. Each neural network of the system can output a Cin value for a color separation for example a Cin value may be used to control one or more of a color separation a Cyan color separation a Magenta color separation a Yellow color separation and or a Black color separation of the print engine in a four or more colorant system. Each neural network may output only a single control parameter e.g. a particular neural network outputs only a Cin value for controlling the Cyan color separation of the print engine. A Cin value may be in some embodiments a binary number representing a percent converge of that color separation as marked on the substrate.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the system includes a calibration component. The calibration is adapted to calibrate a neural network of the neural network component. The calibration component calibrates the neural network to the print engine for printing target colors on the substrate utilizing the print engine. The calibration component includes a color test pattern analysis component for calibrating the neural network by analyzing one or more color test patterns. The calibration component communicates with a spectrometer to measure one or more of the color test patterns. The calibration component can calibrate the neural network to the print engine utilizing a quick propagation algorithm configured to converge. Additionally or alternatively the calibration component is in operative communication with a color sensing device. The color sensing device measures the color test pattern thereby facilitating the color test pattern analysis component to analyze one or more color test patterns. The color sensing device may be disposed within or along the print path or substrate propagation path the printing system to measure the color test pattern therein.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a method for printing target colors includes providing a neural network calibrating the neural network to the print engine of the printing system for printing target colors and communicating a parameter between the print engine and the neural network. The parameter is associated with printing the target colors.

Calibrating the neural network includes printing a color test pattern measuring and or analyzing the color test pattern and modifying a node of the neural network in accordance with the analyzed color test pattern. The method can modify the node by modifying one or more weights of the node. The method may calibrate the node by updating a weight to a node of the neural network using quick propagation and or by utilizing a back propagating algorithm with momentum to adjust one or more weights to the node of the neural network.

In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure a system for printing target colors includes a print engine and a plurality of feedfoward neural networks. The print engine is adapted to mark a substrate with a plurality of colorants. Each of the plurality of feedfoward neural network is adapted for being trained to control a single colorant of the plurality of colorants. Each of the plurality of feedfoward neural networks is further adapted for being trained separately to each other and to receive a common input. The plurality of feedfoward neural networks is adapted for parallel integration to control the print engine to mark the substrate with the plurality of colorants.

Specifically the embodiment includes a belt photoreceptor along which are disposed a series of stations as is generally familiar in the art of xerography one set for each color of ink or toner to be printed. For instance to place a cyan color separation image on photoreceptor there is used a charge corotron C an imaging laser C and a development unit C. For successive color separations there is provided equivalent elements M M M for magenta Y Y Y for yellow and K K K for black . The successive color separations are built up in a superimposed manner on the surface of photoreceptor and then the combined full color image is transferred at transfer station to an output sheet. The output sheet is then run through a fuser as is familiar in xerography. Printing process may be controlled for example by a print controller . Print controller may include one or more neural networks discussed below .

As is familiar in the art of laser printing by coordinating the modulation of the various lasers with the motion of photoreceptor and other hardware such as rotating mirrors etc. not shown the lasers discharge areas on photoreceptor to create the desired printing particularly after these areas are developed by their respective development units C M Y K.

In one implementation a color sensing device may be placed in the printing device to directly monitor printed critical colors as they exit the device for example at location . In another implementation the color sensing device as described above can be placed just before or just after the transfer station where the toner is transferred to the sheet for example at locations for monitoring colors directly on the photoreceptor belt or other intermediate transfer members. The color sensing device can make measurements to images created on the photoreceptor such as color sensing devices and or to printed images which were transferred to an output sheet such as color sensing device .

The color sensing devices and provide feed back to a control device for taking action in response to critical color measurements. There may be provided any number of color sensing device placed anywhere in the printer as needed not only in the locations illustrated.

The information gathered therefrom is used by control device and or the print controller in various ways to aid in the operation of the printer whether in a real time feedback loop an offline calibration process a registration system etc. While the control device are shown in the figure as being separate elements it will be appreciated that in some implementations the control device may be a part of the print controller .

Referring to the drawings is a block diagram of a system for printing target colors in accordance with the present disclosure. System may be implemented as part of controller of or separate therefrom. Neural network component may be implemented wholly or partially in hardware software firmware software in execution bytecode microcode a virtual machine the like or some combination thereof. For example neural network component may be implemented by an x86 processor based computer a field programmable gate array a complex programmable logic device programmable array logic and the like. Additionally or alternatively each of neural networks through may be the implemented by the same computing device or separate computing devices. Print engine interfaced may include a network interface e.g. a TCP IP controller an operating system communications interface such as Inter Process Communications and or Intra process communications an application programming interface a wireless transceiver and the like. Additionally or alternatively neural network component may be part of printer e.g. neural network component may be an installable module installable in printer and or a PC in operative communication with printer .

Neural Network component may include in other embodiments an arbitrary number of neural networks . Also print engine in some embodiments may include an arbitrary number of color separations. Each of neural networks controls a single one of color separations not explicitly shown of print engine . In some embodiments a black color separation not explicitly identified is controlled by a neural network also not explicitly identified however in some embodiments a black color separation does not have neural network control.

Neural network component may be implemented by a processing module that includes processor . Processor may be a microprocessor a microcontroller a virtual processor on a virtual machine an ASICS microchip a soft microprocessor software emulation of hardware or other device sufficient for processing instructions. Additionally or alternatively processor may communication with memory . Memory may include data and or instructions e.g. processing module may follow the Von Neumann architecture. Alternatively in another embodiment processing module may follow the Harvard architecture i.e. instructions are outside of memory and may be part of other memory not depicted . Memory may also include a stack and or a heap.

Neural network component includes feedfoward neural networks through . An input parameter is received by neural network component . Input parameter may be a L a b value or other representation of a color. The input parameter can represent a relative color value or an absolute color value. Input parameter is received by feedfoward neural networks through . Input parameter may include a color value representing a target color and or other colors and each of feedfoward neural networks can be trained for input parameter . Feed forward neural networks each calculates a Cin value for a color separation of print engine after one or more of feedfoward neural networks are calibrated i.e. feedfoward neural network calculates a Cin value for Cyan feedfoward neural network calculates a Cin value for Magenta feedfoward neural network calculates a Cin value for Yellow and feedfoward neural network calculates a Cin value Black. A Cin value is a binary number representing a percent of coverage of the color separation as printed on a substrate e.g. paper within a predefined region of the substrate. Additionally or alternatively and as previously mentioned in some embodiments a Black color separation control is not implemented by a neural network. Also in other embodiments not explicitly shown that utilize more than four color separations the number of the neural networks may be equal to the number of the color separations utilized by the print engine.

Each of the Cin values from feedfoward neural networks are communicated to print engine via print engine interface . Neural network component provides Cin values to cause print engine to attempt to print a color having the L a b value as represented by parameter . Neural network component is calibrated to print engine . Print engines may vary from one printer to another and or may vary between identically manufactured printers due to manufacturing variances. Therefore neural network component is trained for a specific print engine .

Specifically neural network component is trained for a subset of the color space printable by print engine e.g. neural network component is trained to print target colors utilizing print engine . To train neural network component one or more of versions of color test pattern are printed and analyzed by spectrometer . The color test pattern analysis component receives data from spectrometer and normalizes and or performs processing on the data. Calibration component controls the calibration of feedfoward neural networks . Calibration component can train feedfoward neural networks using a quick propagation algorithm and or a back propagation algorithm discussed in more detail below . Feedfoward neural networks can be trained offline and once trained may not need additional training and or may need only periodic maintenance training e.g. to adjust for ageing of print engine . The training time for feedfoward neural networks may be up to or about minutes for a specific print engine e.g. print engine . Feedfoward neural networks may be trained independently to each other i.e. no nodes of feedfoward neural network is connected to any of the nodes of feedfoward neural networks through and thereafter arranged in a parallel fashion each having an output which controls a single color separation of print engine . Print engine may be any printer using multiple colorants e.g. a digital color an offset printing system and the like. Additionally or alternatively system may control a 6 colorant printing system in which neural network component utilizes 6 or 5 without black neural networks e.g. some printing systems utilize Cyan Magenta Yellow Black Orange and Green or violet .

Referring to the drawings shows a three layer feedfoward neural network in accordance with the present disclosure. Neural network includes input layer having input nodes hidden layer having hidden nodes and an output layer having output nodes . Neural network receives a L a b value and outputs a Cin value. Neural network may be one or more of feedfoward neural networks through

To train neural network a mix of quick propagation and back propagation algorithms may be used to train neural network to the data from the printed test pattern. In other words a quick propagation algorithm may be used to update the weights of the neural networks to a solution region quickly and a back propagation algorithm with learning rate decay and momentum may be utilized to fine tune the weights of the neural networks to obtain an additional increase in color accuracy. The details of this are listed below.

Assume that in output units are denoted by O hidden units by Vj and input terminals by . There are connections wfrom the inputs to the hidden units and wfrom the hidden units to the output units. The different patterns are labeled by a superscript . Given pattern hidden unit j receives a net input as show in formula 1 as follows 

Neural network may be trained using print engine s default color data test patterns offline to train neural network for printing a target color. Although a color test pattern is used to train neural network e.g. color test pattern of the specific target color need not be included only a set of sufficiently surrounding colors to the desired target colors need to be included.

Referring to the drawings is a flow chart diagram of a method for printing target colors in accordance with the present disclosure. Method includes steps through . Although the steps as show in are show having a particular sequence other sequences are contemplated and are the purview of one of ordinary skill in the relevant art. Additionally or alternatively any of steps through may be performed in serial in parallel in a staggered fashion and or may other steps shown or not shown.

Step provides a neural network e.g. one of neural networks of one of neural networks of and or neural network of . Step calibrates the neural network to a print engine of a printing system for printing target colors. Step prints a color test pattern and step analyzes the color test pattern. Step modifies a node of the neural network in accordance with the color test pattern. Step may includes steps through . Step updates a weight of the node of the neural networking using quick propagation while step utilizes a back propagating algorithm with momentum to adjust the weights of the node of the neural network. Step modifies a weight of the node e.g. modifies one or more weight of one or more node of the neural network as deemed by one of the algorithms discussed with regards to steps and or . Step communicates parameters between the print engine and the neural network. The parameters are associated with printing target colors.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

