---

title: Permanent-magnet-less synchronous reluctance system
abstract: A permanent magnet-less synchronous system includes a stator that generates a magnetic revolving field when sourced by an alternating current. An uncluttered rotor is disposed within the magnetic revolving field and spaced apart from the stator to form an air gap relative to an axis of rotation. The rotor includes a plurality of rotor pole stacks having an inner periphery biased by single polarity of a north-pole field and a south-pole field, respectively. The outer periphery of each of the rotor pole stacks are biased by an alternating polarity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08264120&OS=08264120&RS=08264120
owner: UT-Battelle, LLC
number: 08264120
owner_city: Oak Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081120
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 989 201 filed Nov. 20 2007 which is incorporated by reference.

The application was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE AC05 000R22725 between the United States Department of Energy and U.T. Battelle LLC. The United States Government has certain rights in these inventions.

Due to advances in form and performance demand for motors is increasing. Reduced sizes and improved reliability have broadened the acceptance of electric motors to industries that include transportation aerospace robotics and healthcare.

Some motors use permanent magnets to generate torque. Because the properties of these materials may vary in time such materials may be unsuitable for some applications. In vehicles for example fuel efficiency may be compromised when a permanent magnetic motor is not actuated to drive a vehicle. The continuous fields of the permanent magnets may resist the driving torque of a vehicle and generate core losses.

A permanent magnet less synchronous system includes a stator that generates a magnetic revolving field when sourced by an alternating current. An uncluttered rotor is disposed within the magnetic revolving field and spaced apart from the stator by an air gap relative to an axis of rotation. The rotor includes a plurality of rotor pole stacks having an inner periphery biased by a single polarity. The outer periphery of each of the rotor pole stacks are biased by an alternating polarity.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

A synchronous system generates high power density at a high torque to weight ratio. Without permanent magnets some of these brushless slip ring less constructions have a reduced size lower weights e.g. due to lightweight materials such as aluminum that may form the frames and less core losses. In vehicles that may use radial gap motors there may be little to no core losses when the system runs free without field excitations. Without a magnetic resistance fuel efficiency may increase. The high power density and driving torque of these systems may be used in other applications that have short intermediate or long core lengths. To improve power factors the reluctance torque component may be located at about less than about a ninety degree load angle. Dynamic balances are improved when systems do not include rotating rotor windings. In these systems and others the stator fields may be cut off to enhance safety fields may be boosted to increase or reach peak acceleration power in short time periods e.g. about eighteen seconds power factors may be optimized e.g. lowering the loading in inverter applications and efficiency maps may increase due to the adjustable fields. The synchronous systems may be mass produced and may have higher power densities and lower power costs per kilowatt than some induction systems. Some synchronous systems are highly efficient in comparison to some permanent magnet motor constructions. The systems may be operated as an alternating current machine a motor or a generator.

The stationary excitation core portions may include two or more magnetically conducting discs that may include recessed ring shape like spaces for receiving the excitation conductors or coils. In a disc system the number of discs may be proportional to the available areas for the flux passing axially through the stationary excitation core. The longer the core length of a machine the greater the number of stationary discs may be used. Many types of materials may form the discs such as solid iron compressed conducting powder such as iron and other materials that provide good magnetic conduction or ferromagnetic properties. In some applications the discs are not subject to a rotating torque.

In a brushless permanent magnet less system shown in the coils of the stationary excitation core may be preformed. During assembly the coils may be laid or positioned in the recessed ring shape space on the disks. Connections to the coils may be integrated into or may be a unitary part of the discs. Coil terminal pins may be inserted into a conducting socket connection pin and socket shown as that passes through the disc thickness through an insulator such as one or more insulation tubes. A first and last disc may have an optional radial groove formed or cut into the side surfaces of the discs that may bring the excitation leads to a stationary hollow channel or coolant shaft .

An uncluttered rotor positioned between the pair of cylindrical stator portions may include two or more uncluttered rotor pole stacks and that are separated by axially centered annulet dielectrics or cylindrical air gaps for example and spacer stacks . The uncluttered rotor may be comprised of many materials including solid or compressed powder laminations punchings of magnetically conducting materials etc. The construction and material may further include other structures and forms including those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 270 203 7 134 180 6 977 454 and 6 891 301 that are incorporated by reference. In some systems a hollow center channel may receive a stationary hollow center shaft that may act as a cooling channel or tube that has a coolant inlet and outlet and .

The non conducting or magnetically isolated channels materials punchings and or kidney like and obround shapes or dielectrics shown in may be nearly identical and almost equally spaced about the annulus of the north polarity and south polarity rotor stacks and and respectively. Between the north polarity and south polarity stacks and the channels materials punchings and or kidney like and obround shapes hereinafter referred to as the channel or channels are rotated about one hundred and eighty electrical degrees apart.

When formed through a fabrication process the magnetically isolated sections of the rotor stacks may be formed by the punched out or preformed channels. The different sections of the channels may be mechanically coupled to other layers or rotor pieces by thin bridges . Multiple thin bridges may be used in high speed applications. In some systems the channels may partially enclose a dielectric non magnetic materials or a cooling e.g. coolant media.

During the rotor assembly described in the channels of a stack sharing a common inner polarity may be positioned adjacent to a spacer stack separated by an axially centered annulet dielectric or air gap at and . A second stack having an opposite inner polarity may be disposed adjacent to an opposite side of the spacer stack in a rotated position. In some synchronous systems the second stack is rotated about 180 electric degrees from the coordinate position of the first stack at . A second axially centered annulet dielectric or air gap may be partially enclosed by the opposite outer surface of spacer stack and an outer surface of the second stack. As more stacks are added the same process may be repeated at .

Other alternate systems and methods may include combinations of some or all of the structure and functions described above incorporated by reference or shown in one or more or each of the figures. These systems or methods are formed from any combination of structure and function described or illustrated. Some alternative systems or devices interface structures that transport person or things. The system may convert one form of energy into another e.g. convert electric current into mechanical power .

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

