---

title: Insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor and method of manufacture
abstract: An insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure is provided and includes a substrate formed of dielectric material. A patterned silicon material may be disposed on the substrate and includes at least first, second and third electrodes uniformly spaced on the substrate by first and second trenches. A first nanowire formed in the first trench operates to electrically couple the first and second electrodes. A second nanowire formed in the second trench operates to electrically couple the second and third electrodes. First drain and first source contacts may be respectively disposed on the first and second electrodes and a first gate contact may be disposed to be capacitively coupled to the first nanowire. Similarly, second drain and second source contacts may be respectively disposed on the second and third electrodes and a second gate contact may be disposed to be capacitively coupled to the second nanowire.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07700419&OS=07700419&RS=07700419
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07700419
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080814
---
This application is a divisional of and claims the benefit of application number 11 208 127 filed Aug. 18 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 485 908.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

The present invention relates generally to transistor structures and more particularly to an insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor structure.

As is known free standing nanostructures are currently being extensively explored. These nanostructures are especially attractive for sensor applications because their high surface to volume ratio makes them very sensitive to charged species adsorbed on their surfaces. Lateral growth of carbon nanotubes between two electrodes during chemical vapour deposition CVD has been realized for which a lateral electric field applied between the electrodes attracts the growing nanotube towards the counter electrode. Although the potential of carbon nanotubes for applications such as gas sensing field effect devices has been demonstrated the difficulty of synthesizing only metallic or only semiconducting nanotubes and the difficulty of modifying nanotube surfaces have limited their development as nanosensors.

Lateral growth of GaAs nanowhiskers by metalorganic vapour phase epitaxy MOVPE from vertical ridges on a GaAs substrate using Au nanoparticles as the catalyst has also been demonstrated. However the properties of the mechanical connection between a bridging nanowire and the vertical sidewall have not been favorable.

Nanowires made of silicon are especially attractive because of silicon s compatibility with existing IC processes. Moreover the chemical and physical properties of silicon can be controlled to adjust the device sensitivity and silicon nanowires can be selectively grown. Using silicon allows the vast knowledge of silicon technology to be applied to applications such as sensing. Using semiconductor nanowires researchers have demonstrated electrical sensors for biological and chemical species and designed a range of nanoelectronic and photonic devices in different material systems. In many of these demonstrations nanowires were assembled after growth into parallel or crossed arrays by alignment aided by fluid flow or by applying electric fields. In other cases electrical contacts were defined with electron beam lithography on a few selected nanowires.

Although connecting electrodes to nanowires one at a time contributes to understanding the characteristics of nanowires and exploring novel device applications it cannot be used for reproducible mass fabrication of dense low cost device arrays. A massively parallel self assembly technique is needed to allow bridging of silicon nanowires between electrodes using only relatively coarse lithography principles.

In one aspect of the present invention an insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure is set forth. The insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure includes a substrate formed of dielectric material. A patterned silicon material may be disposed on the substrate and has at least first second and third electrodes uniformly spaced on the substrate by first and second trenches. A first nanowire may be formed in the first trench and is operative to electrically couple the first and second electrodes. Similarly a second nanowire may be formed in the second trench and is operative to electrically couple the second and third electrodes. First drain and first source contacts may be respectively disposed on the first and second electrodes. Further a first gate contact is disposed to be capacitively coupled to the first nanowire.

The transistor amplifier structure further includes second drain and second source contacts which are respectively disposed on the second and third electrodes. A second gate contact is also disposed to be capacitively coupled to the second nanowire. In this arrangement the first drain contact is coupled to receive current from a first source and the second gate contact is coupled to receive current from a second source for generating an electric field sufficient to permit current from the first source to flow through the first and second nanowires and simultaneously providing an amplified output realized between the first gate and first source contacts.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of forming an insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure is set forth. The method includes disposing a silicon layer on a dielectric substrate and patterning the silicon layer for forming at least first second and third electrodes separated by first and second trenches. A first nanowire may be grown laterally in the first trench for electrically coupling the first and second electrodes. Similarly a second nanowire may be grown laterally in the second trench for electrically coupling the second and third electrodes. The first and second nanowires may thereafter be encapsulated in a first dielectric material.

The method further includes disposing first drain and first source contacts on respective first and second electrodes. Similarly the second drain and second source contacts may be disposed on respective second and third electrodes. A first gate contact may be disposed on the first dielectric material in close proximity to the first nanowire and a second gate contact may be disposed on the first dielectric material in close proximity to the second nanowire. In this arrangement the first drain source and gate contacts serve as an interface to a first transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure and the second drain source and gate contacts serve as an interface to a second transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure.

The present invention provides an insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure and method of manufacturing the same. The insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure is constructed and arranged to permit operation in the THz range by ballistically transporting electrons through a number of nanowires located within the transistor structure as will be described in further detail below.

Referring now to shown is one embodiment of the insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure in accordance with principles of the present invention. In the illustrative embodiment the insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure includes a substrate . In an embodiment the substrate can be formed of silicon oxide sapphire glass or other sturdy dielectric materials or a layer of such materials deposited on a silicon substrate. A silicon layer may be disposed on the substrate which wafer may be patterned to form at least first second and third electrodes separated by first and second trenches . The silicon wafer may be patterning using any one of many known methods in the wafer fabrication and processing arts for patterning silicon wafers such as etching or micromachining. In the illustrative embodiment the trenches are etched down in the silicon wafer to a depth which substantially exposes the dielectric substrate e.g. silicon oxide.

At least a first nanowire may be formed in the first trench which is operative to electrically couple the first electrode to the second electrode . Similarly at least a second nanowire may be formed in the second trench which is operative to electrically couple the second electrode to the third electrode . The formation of the first and second nanowires in the respective first and second trenches will be described below in further detail in connection with through . It should be understood that the first nanowire may include a plurality of nanowires disposed in parallel to electrically couple the first and second electrodes for which the greater the number of nanowires disposed between the first and second electrodes the greater the number of electrons that may be transported between the first and second electrodes i.e. increased current flow . It should also be understood and similar to that described above the second nanowire may also include a plurality of nanowires disposed in parallel to electrically couple the second and third electrodes and for which the greater the number of nanowires disposed between the second and third electrodes the greater the number of electrons that may be transported between the second and third electrodes i.e. increased current flow .

In an embodiment the first and second nanowires may include at least one of or a combination of silicon carbon gallium nitride gallium arsenide aluminum gallium arsenide or related semiconductor alloys. In another embodiment the first and second nanowires may include Ti and Au nucleated Si nanowires.

In the exemplary embodiment at least the first and second nanowires may be encapsulated in a first dielectric material which serves to insulate and protect the first and second nanowires and well as to provide a suitable platform to support respective first and second gate contacts respectively disposed in close proximity to the first and second nanowires . The insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure further includes first drain and source contacts which are respectively disposed on the first and second electrodes . Similarly the illustrated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure also includes second drain and source contacts which are respectively disposed on the second and third electrodes . In an embodiment the first gate drain and source contacts serve as an interface to a first transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure and the second gate drain and source contacts serve as an interface to a second transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure . Further in the illustrative embodiment the first source contact of the first transistor stage and the second drain contact of the second transistor stage are disposed in a contact relationship on the second electrode

In an embodiment the first drain contact of the first transistor stage is adapted to receive current from a first power source which may include a direct current source e.g. a battery . The first gate contact may also be coupled to the first source contact which first source contact is itself coupled to the second drain contact as described above to provide an output port of the insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure of the present invention. Further the second gate contact may be adapted to receive an input voltage and or control signals from a second power source e.g. alternating current source . Furthermore the second source contact may be coupled to ground .

Referring to through shown is a method for growing the first nanowire s associated with the first transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure and it should be understood that the second nanowire s associated with the second stage of the transistor amplifier structure may be similarly formed. In particular shows a thermal oxide layer grown on a silicon wafer which may be patterned to serve as an etch mask for the subsequent silicon wafer etching process. The mask edges should be carefully aligned along the intersections of the vertical planes with the top surface so that the subsequently etched first trench is bounded by two adjacent vertical surfaces . The oxide may be etched using reactive ion etching RIE with CHFand Ar gases and the first trenches may be formed in the silicon wafer by etching the silicon wafer in 44 KOH HO at 110 C. for 1 min which creates the first trench having dimensions of approximately 8 m deep and 2 15 m wide.

In after forming the vertical surfaces and cleaning the sample a nucleating metal catalyst of Ti or Au of the order of 1 nm thick may be deposited by electron beam evaporation onto one of the vertical surfaces such as surface of the etched trench . The vertical surface of the etched trench may be positioned at an angle of 45 from the normal to deposit the catalyst onto the vertical surface of the trench so that the nanowire s will grow preferentially from the vertical surface to the opposing vertical surface

The structure may thereafter be transferred through air to a lamp heated CVD reactor not shown in which the structure is supported by an SiC coated graphite plate not shown of moderate thermal mass. The structure may be annealed in hydrogen at approximately 625 degrees Celsius to form Au Si alloy nanoparticles and to reduce the native oxide on the Ti and form TiSi. The temperature may be increased to 625 degrees Celsius and a mixture of SiHand HCl may be introduced into the hydrogen ambient to grow the nanowire s as shown in . The total pressure may be controlled at 10 Torr with 3 slm of hydrogen 15 sccm of SiH and 15 sccm of HCl.

As shown in the nanowire s may be grown for approximately 30 minutes or until the nanowire extends laterally towards and couples with the opposing vertical sidewall which said another way forms a nanowire bridge across the trench . shows a scanning electron microscope image of one embodiment of the present invention in which the first trench includes the first nanowire as including a plurality of nanowires disposed to couple the first and second electrodes . Similarly shows another scanning electron microscope image of another embodiment of the present invention in which the first trench includes the first nanowire as including a unitary nanowire disposed to couple the first and second electrodes 

Referring to and after forming the first nanowire i.e. which may includes one or more nanowires in the first trench which is electrically disposed to couple the first and second electrodes the method of the present invention includes encapsulating the first nanowire in a first dielectric material . In an embodiment the first dielectric material may include silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. In after encapsulating the first nanowire in the first dielectric material the method further includes substantially filling the remaining portions of the first trench with a second dielectric material . In an embodiment the second dielectric material may include silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. In the first drain and first source contacts may be formed on the respective first and second electrodes using any one of a number of commonly known deposition processes. Finally in the first gate contact may be disposed on a portion of the first dielectric material which operates to encapsulate the first nanowire to form the first transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure . As mentioned above it should be understood that the second transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure may be similarly constructed and arranged as the first transistor stage . Further in order to reduce processing steps and fabrication time it should be understood that the second transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure may be simultaneously fabricated as the first transistor stage of the transistor amplifier structure .

Referring again to during operation of the insulated gate silicon nanowire transistor amplifier structure of the present invention an input voltage is received at the second gate contact which operates to generate an electric field between the second gate contact and the second nanowire for capacitively coupling the second gate contact and the second nanowire to permit electrons to flow through the second nanowire . This phenomena of electric field control of the second nanowire further permits current to be sourced from the first power source i.e. D.C. source for providing a ballistic electron transport or current flow from the first power source through the first drain contact first electrode first nanowire second electrode second nanowire third electrode and out of the transistor amplifier structure to ground via the second source contact . At the same time an amplified output voltage may be realized at the output part of the transistor amplifier structure . In an embodiment the output voltage is directly proportional to the magnitude of the current flowing through the transistor amplifier structure as sourced by the first power source and as described above. Since the magnitude of the current flowing through the transistor amplifier structure is controlled by the magnitude of the input voltage received at the second gate electrode from the second power source it logically follows that the output voltage realized at output port is proportional to the magnitude if the input voltage signal received at the second gate contact

It should be understood that the number of the first and second nanowires can be increased to increase the number of parallel pathes thereby increasing the current flowing at a given bias voltage through the transistor amplifier structure which may translate into an increase in the amplified output voltage realized at the output port . It should also be understood that the transistor amplifier structure of the present invention is fully scaleable and may be expanded to include additional transistor stages not shown without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention based on the above described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited by what has been particularly shown and described except as indicated by the appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

