---

title: Stabilized gold nanoparticle and contrast agent
abstract: A kit for providing a contrast enhancer in a mammal for contrasting during imaging of the mammal comprises functionalized gold nanoparticles configured to be directed to one or more of a target organ, tissue and lesion of the mammal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549998&OS=09549998&RS=09549998
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 09549998
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
Applicants claim priority benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 on the basis of Patent Application No. 60 937 475 filed Jun. 27 2008.

This invention was made with Government assistance under NIH Grant No CA 119412. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A field of the invention is nanotechnology. Example applications of the invention include X ray computed tomography imaging.

X ray Computed Tomography CT is the most widely used imaging modality for the diagnosis of various disease and disorders in animal and human population. Iodinated agents are routinely used as contrast enhancers to produce clinically intelligent images via X ray CT. However iodinated agents suffer from several drawbacks. One drawback is that the resolution of CT to detect cancer and other disorders within the body using iodinated agents at early stages of cancer development is limited by the inadequate contrast between the healthy and cancerous tissues. Another issue is that some patients develop allergic reactions as a result of administration of iodinated agents. Also iodinated agents rapidly wash off clear from tissues which impedes continuous monitoring of patients images through CT. Iodinated agents are also non specific which prevents highly targeted imaging of specific tissue regions.

CT imaging uses special x ray equipment to produce multiple images or pictures of the inside of the body and a computer to join them together in cross sectional views of the area being studied. The images can then be examined on a computer monitor or printed. CT scans of internal organs bone soft tissue and blood vessels provide greater clarity than conventional x ray exams. Because of its great sensitivity and specificity CT scanning is often the preferred method for diagnosing many different cancers including lung liver and pancreatic cancer since the image allows a physician to confirm the presence of a tumor and measure its size precise location and the extent of the tumor s involvement with other nearby tissue. CT scans have also become pivotal medical diagnostic modality in examination that play a significant role in the detection diagnosis and treatment of vascular diseases that can lead to stroke kidney failure and death.

Iodinated agents sometimes referred to as dye which are liquids are used as CT contrast enhancers to produce images of specific organs blood vessels and or tissue types stand out with more image contrast to better show the presence of disease or injury. Thus CT contrast highlights specific areas of the resultant CT image. While iodinated agents have become work horses of medical CT imaging modality they suffer from the major disadvantages discussed above. In addition the application of iodinated contrast agents is restricted in certain patients because of the impact of these agents on the renal function. With iodinated agents some imaging studies are limited by the injected dose and the rate of dose injection.

Certain types of diseases including cancers should be monitored via imaging for a long period of time. For example over 25 of patients with colorectal cancer develop metastasis in liver within 2 4 months post surgery. However there are no tumor markers for continuous staging of the metastasis in liver in patients after they have been operated for removal of colorectal tumors. Currently available iodinated agents for CT imaging are unsuitable as the contrast agent is not retained in the liver for a sufficient length of time. For these and other reasons there is a considerable need for new contrast agents.

One aspect of the invention is directed to a contrast agent comprising gold nanoparticles and gum arabic stabilizing means for stabilizing the particles to be retained in living tissue for an extended period of time. Other aspects of the invention are directed to methods for imaging mammals including steps of using gold nanoparticles is a contrast agent. Although some methods of the invention will be illustrated herein through use of phantom tissue mice and swine it will be understood that many methods of the invention are useful with any mammal including humans.

Still other embodiments of the invention are directed to kits including gold nanoparticles useful for performing medical imaging including useful for performing methods of the invention. For example a kit for providing a contrast enhancer in a mammal for contrasting during imaging of the mammal comprises functionalized gold nanoparticles configured to be directed to a target portion of the mammal.

An embodiment of the invention is a stabilized and functionalized gold nanoparticle that is suitable for use as a contrast agent in CT imaging. Other embodiments include kits including particular concentrations and configurations of gold nanoparticles useful for performing medical imaging. Other embodiments include methods for performing imaging using such nanoparticles. Functionalized and stabilized gold nanoparticles AuNP s of the invention can enhance contrast in CT images attributed due to the high radio opacity as compared to the tissue and can remain in tissue for an extended period of time to permit repeat imaging. As illustrated by Au exhibits useful absorbance characteristics. Stabilized and functionalized gold nanoparticles of the invention can serve as a powerful new contrast agent for clinical applications in the molecular imaging and therapy of various diseases and disorders in organs. Although some methods of the invention will be illustrated herein through use of Phantom tissue mice and swine it will be understood that many methods of the invention are useful with any mammal including humans.

Before describing various example embodiments of the invention in detail it will be appreciated that the invention includes gold nanoparticles useful for applications including medical imaging kits including gold nanoparticles useful for performing medical imaging and methods for performing imaging using gold nanoparticles. As used herein the term kit is intended to broadly refer to an article with an example being a supply of gold nanoparticles. It will be appreciated that in describing one embodiment of the invention other embodiments may likewise be described. For example a description of a method of the invention will be understood to likewise include description of kit of the invention useful to perform that method and a particle of the invention useful in practice of that method.

Nanoparticles of the invention methods of the invention using and kits including stabilized nanoparticles provide a significant clinical benefit as they can be retained in tissue for significant time periods to permit repeated high contrast CT imaging. Methods of the invention for example may include steps of injecting a mammal with gold nanoparticles and then subjecting the mammal to imaging hours a day tens of days or later. In some methods of the tension the step of injecting the mammal is followed by repeated steps of imaging over periods of a few hours 24 hours several days 10 days 30 days 60 days 90 days or longer. This offers important advantages and benefits over the prior art since patients can be subjected to longer term imaging without the requirement for repeated or frequent introduction of contrasting agent. The high levels of gold nanoparticles found in some organs long after injection also represents a surprising and unexpected result.

A method of the invention for performing imaging on a mammal with an example being a human using a contrast enhancer comprises the steps of introducing gold nanoparticles into the mammal and using an imaging apparatus to perform imaging on the mammal wherein the gold nanoparticles in the mammal enhance the contrast of images obtained. Likewise a kit for performing such a method includes the gold nanoparticles prepared for introduction.

Some methods of the invention achieve particular benefits and utility through a further step of functionalizing the gold nanoparticles prior to the introduction into the mammal while some kits include these functionalized nanoparticles. As used herein the term functionalize broadly refers to treating conditioning or otherwise operating on the gold nanoparticles to provide them with operative behavior or tendencies they did not previously have. By way of example one example step of functionalizing a gold nanoparticle through a method of the invention includes combining the nanoparticle with a material or molecule having particular physical properties or characteristics the gold nanoparticles do not have. The nanoparticles may be functionalized to enhance their ability to engage a particular target organ tissue lesion or other desired portion of the mammal. In this manner some methods and kits of the invention use a functionalized gold nanoparticle that is configured to engage only specific portions of interest of the mammal.

One particular example includes attaching a biomolecule to the gold nanoparticles. The biomolecule can be selected depending on the particular application at hand. For example specific biomolecules can be chosen that are useful to engage one or more of blood clots tumors arterial plaque particular organs and particular tissues. As used herein the term engage when used in this context will be understood to broadly refer to absorption adsorption adhesion or other physiological or mechanical connection or linkage between a molecule and an organ tissue lesion blood clot plaque or the like. One example biomolecule useful in some methods of the invention is bombesin which is known to be useful for engaging tumors such as prostate cancer tumors.

This illustrates one important advantage some invention embodiments. Gold nanoparticles have been discovered to be particularly suitable to functionalization. This is an advantage over many contrast agents of the prior art with an example being iodine that are much less suitable to being functionalized. This achieves benefits including the ability to direct contrast agents specifically to targeted portions of the mammal with an example being to a blood clot or an organs such as the kidney spleen liver or the like. As a result lower overall doses may be injected into the mammal since they can be directed to particular areas of interest.

It has also been discovered that there is some threshold of gold nanoparticle engagement with a target portion of the mammal that is useful to achieve a reasonable level of image contrast. This threshold varies with some factors including background tissue quantum noise statistics the volume of the lesion patient size particular organ and others. Nonetheless a useful general threshold has been determined to be at least about 1 mg Au per gm of target. Some methods of the invention therefore include a step of causing engagement between target portion of the mammal in a ratio of at least about 1 mg gold nanoparticles per gram of target portion of the mammal. By way of example if a 10 gm cancerous tumor were targeted some methods of the invention include steps of engaging that tumor with at least 10 mg of gold nanoparticles and kits include providing this dosage of nanoparticle. Other methods of the invention may utilize engagement of other ratios of gold nanoparticles per unit mass of target portion of the mammal with an example being less than 1 mg or 5 mg. As a general rule a higher concentration is favored to produce the greatest level of contrast although too high of concentrations may carry some health risks.

Still another advantage of some invention embodiments relates to the longevity of the gold nanoparticles as a contrast agent in a mammal following introduction. The utility of many prior art contrast agents was limited by relatively short operative presence of those agents following introduction to a patient. Taking radioisotopes as an example they are known to have an operative lifespan of only 6 hours or so. Some methods of the invention on the other hand include steps performing imaging 24 hours 10 days 30 days 90 days or even more after the initial introduction.

This achieves important advantages and benefits over the prior art. For example the patient can avoid repeated injections of a contrast agent that may have been required in the prior art for prolonged imaging. Through embodiments of the invention a patient may receive an introduction of gold nanoparticles which will remain operative as a contrast agent for days weeks or even months. Imaging may be performed over these periods without the need for further introduction contrast agent.

Some embodiments of the invention in fact benefit through a delay between the initial introduction of the gold nanoparticles and the step of using an imaging apparatus to perform imaging on the patient. In some example methods a step of waiting at least four hours after the introduction of gold nanoparticles is performed. It has been discovered that this time period is useful to allow functionalized gold nanoparticles to circulate and to engage targeted portions of the mammal. Other example methods of the invention include steps of waiting other periods with examples being at least 1 hour at least 24 hours and at least 10 days. Different periods will result from different application conditions. Kits of the invention are configured to facilitate these delays.

Embodiments of the invention contemplate use of a variety of different imaging apparatuses to generate images of the mammal. One particular example that has proven to be useful is computed tomography or CT. Other methods of the invention utilize other imaging apparatuses and techniques with examples including linear tomography poly tomography zonography or orhtopantomography fluoroscopy dual energy computed tomography CT scanners configured to perform energy discrimination and others. Some methods of the invention have been discovered to be particularly well suited to practice with CT imaging.

For example higher kVp values may be used with gold nanoparticle contrast agents than were practical or in some cases possible with some contrast agents of the prior art. kVp is a setting on an x ray tube whether a plain x ray or CT scanner that stands for kilovolts peak . As the kVp setting is increased on an x ray machine the penetrability of the x rays produced increases. When an x ray machine emits x ray photons the energy of each photon is usually expressed in units of keV kiloelectron volts . An electron volt eV is the amount of energy required to move an electron through a one volt potential. A higher kVp setting results in photons with higher keVs because the greater acceleration of electrons in the x ray tube results in more x rays produced at higher energies. As the kVp setting is increased on an x ray machine the penetrability of the x rays produced increases. X rays produced in an x ray tube have a spectrum of energies the maximum photon energy will be no higher than the kVp. However a higher kVp will produce a beam with a higher mean energy of x ray photons in the spectrum. A higher photon energy means that the probability of penetration through a certain thickness of material increases.

Projection radiography typically uses kVp s around 70 to 85 kVp. This is dictated somewhat by the size of the patient and what type of body part is being examined. When iodine is used as a contrast agent a maximum kVp is about 80. A typical CT scan uses a kVp of 120 although many scans today adjust this to 80 kVp for pediatric CT to cut down radiation dose and 140 kVp necessary for the increasingly obese portion of the population .

For materials with higher atomic numbers there is what is referred to as a k edge in the x ray attenuation. This occurs because the binding energy of electrons the bond between these electrons and the nucleus of the atom that increases with the atomic number of the element. One component of x ray attenuation photoelectric absorption PE does not occur unless the photon energy is greater than this binding energy. When the photon energy exceeds the k shell binding energy these two electrons are now available for PE. At this point the attenuation of x rays at that energy drastically increases when plotted it looks like an edge hence the name k edge referring to the k shell electrons. Iodine has a k edge energy of approximately 33 keV while gold s k edge is about 80 keV.

Some embodiments of the invention include steps that exploit this. For example some embodiments are suitable for performing CT imaging using a kVp of at least about 80 others of at least about 140. These levels are not available with some contrast agents of the prior art including iodine. These levels are useful however to perform effective imaging in some applications including those in which patients have a large body thickness or mass. This is a particularly useful benefit given the increasing rate of obesity occurring in the U.S. and around the world which calls for higher kVp values than were previously practiced.

Still other example embodiments of the invention utilize selection of gold nanoparticle diameter for targeting specific organs tissues lesions or other portions of the mammal. It has been surprisingly discovered that in some applications particle size is determinative on the likely end location of engagement of the nanoparticles within a mammal. For example it has been discovered that nanoparticles having a diameter greater than about 20 nm are much more likely be finally engaged in the liver or the spleen as opposed to nanoparticles having a diameter smaller than about 20 nm which are much more likely to be engaged in the lungs. This represents a surprising and unpredictable result and some embodiments of the invention exploit this. Some methods of the invention for example include steps of selecting Au nanoparticle diameter based on target portion of the patient. Other embodiments include use nanoparticles with a diameter of greater than about 20 nm if the target portion of the mammal is the liver or spleen and selecting nanoparticles having a diameter of less than about 20 nm if the target portion of the mammal is the lungs. Some kits of the invention include particles of these size ranges for use in imaging particular organs.

Embodiments of the invention also include a dosage of a set concentration of gold nanoparticles to introduce to the mammal. Higher dosage concentrations are generally favored over low for purposes of scan contrast agent. Too high of a concentration may be disfavored however for cost potential health risk and other reasons. It has been discovered that setting dosage concentration as a ratio to the body mass of the patient is useful to normalize over a patient population. Some embodiments of the invention for example include use of a dose having a concentration between about 2 and about 45 mg per kg body weight of the mammal between about 2 and about 75 mg per kg and some between about 1 and about 5 mg per kg body weight of the mammal. Other embodiments of the invention will utilize other concentrations. Embodiments of the invention include use a functionalized or targeted gold nanoparticle offer advantages in some applications of using significantly lower dose to the subject than would general non targeted agents since the targeted particles can be directed to portions of the mammal of interest.

Some embodiments of the invention further include combining the gold nanoparticles with a stabilizing agent prior to introduction to the mammal. Stabilizing agents can be useful to improve handle ability of the gold nanoparticles production of the gold nanoparticles storage of gold and nanoparticles or for other reasons. Some example stabilizing agents useful in embodiments of the invention include starch agarose glucose and gum arabic. In some embodiments the stabilizing agent may also have some functionalizing effect. Accordingly a stabilizing agent may also be a functionalizing agent and visa versa. Gum arabic for example may have some stabilizing and functional properties.

Still other advantages of some invention embodiments relate to the tendency of gold nanoparticles under certain conditions to form nano arrays or to otherwise agglomerate and increase concentration in particular locations. Examples include particular organs tumors lesions tissue blood clots plaques and the like. Accordingly some embodiments of the invention include steps of performing imaging only after nano arrays or other groupings of nanoparticles have formed in targeted portions of the mammal or configuring nanoparticles to form such agglomerations.

Various embodiments of the invention are illustrated herein below using mammals including swine and mice. These experiments and experimental results not only illustrate various aspects of kits nanoparticles and methods of the invention but they also illustrate benefits and advantages that are achieved through some example methods. Those knowledgeable in the art will appreciate that results with the mammal such as the swine or a mouse can translate to other mammals including humans.

Experiments in pigs have demonstrated the efficacy of this stabilized particle for retention in liver for over 30 days for sustained CT imaging of liver and hepatic organs. The efficacy of this new CT imaging approach as demonstrated in large animals in pigs provides compelling evidence for utilization of gold nanoparticle based molecular imaging agents as biomarkers in imaging various organs in humans for the detection of various diseases and also for staging treatment response.

Some particular embodiments will now be discussed along with experimental results. Artisans will recognize broader aspects and additional features of the invention from the discussion of the example embodiments.

This section describes the synthesis of a library of functionalized gold nanoparticles for site specific localization of gold nanoparticles in liver spleen and lung and will be useful to illustrate method steps of the invention. Methods of the invention include steps of using biomolecules that operate to enhanced adhesion absorption attachment or the like to specifically targeted organs or tumors. For example tumor specific bombesin peptide functionalized gold nanoparticles allow localization of gold nanoparticles in prostate small cell lung and breast cancer regions for subsequent tumor imaging using CT methods.

0.012 g of gum arabic GA is dissolved in 6 mL of de ionized DI water by heating the solution to 90 100 C. with continuous stirring. To this hot gum arabic solution 0.1 mL of 0.1M NaAuClsolution 0.0397 g in 1 mL DI is added followed by the addition of 0.02 mL of 0.1M THPAL solution 0.0337 g in 1 mL DI with continued stirring 

0.012 g of gum arabic GA is dissolved in 6 mL of de ionized DI water by heating the solution to 90 100 C. with continuous stirring. To this hot gum arabic solution 0.1 mL of 0.1M NaAuClsolution 0.0397 g in 1 mL DI is added followed by the addition of 0.4 mL of 0.1M bisphosphonate bp solution 0.0324 g in 1 mL DI with continued stirring 

A Sephadex G 100 column was utilized to filter freshly prepared AuNPs. The different sized AuNPs diffused along the column at different rates under the effect of gravity. As the AuNPs start migrating along the column coloration of Sephadex changes from white to purple. Pure AuNPs are eluted as purple colored fractions free of above mentioned impurities.

Synthesis of SAuNPs 0.0225 g of starch is dissolved in 6 mL of de ionized DI water by heating the solution to 90 100 C. with continuous stirring. To this hot starch solution 0.1 mL of 0.1M NaAuCsolution 0.0397 g in 1 mL DI is added followed by the addition of 0.02 mL of 0.1M THPAL solution 0.0337 g in 1 mL DI with continued stirring. When the color of the solution changes to pinkish purple stirring is continued for a minute without heating. The gold nanoparticles SAuNPs thus formed are characterized by absorption and TEM measurements.

Purification Sephadex G 100 column was utilized to filter freshly prepared SAuNP. The different sized AuNPs diffused along the column at different rates under the effect of gravity. As the AuNPs start migrating along the column coloration of Sephadex changes from white to purple. Three fractions of SAuNPs are collected. Only the second fraction is utilized for SS BBN conjugation. The second fraction is diluted by addition of DI water such that the plasmon peak absorbance is 0.7. Bioconjugation To 1 mL of filtered SAuNP solution 1 mL of 0.885 M SS BBN 1 mg in 1 mL of methanol solution was added and continuously stirred for 60 70 hours. At the end of stirring the AuNP SS BBN sample precipitates out in the mixture and appears purple colored. The precipitate and supernatant are separated by centrifuging the mixture. The precipitate was further washed to extract purified AuNP SS BBN. Purification AuNP SS BBN precipitate was washed with DI water and vortexed for 2 3 min to re suspend the particles. The solution was centrifuged at 13 000 rpm for 20 minutes in Fisher AccuSpin 400 micro centrifuge to separate particles and supernatant. This procedure is followed two more times. Additionally the precipitate was further washed with methanol three times. Re suspension The precipitate was dried in Savant Speed Vac concentrator for 20 25 min. The dry precipitate was weighed and re dispersed in known amount of phosphate buffer concentrate of pH 7 by sonicating for 3 4 hours in Branson 2510 Sonicator. Only a part of precipitate dissolved in the buffer giving purple coloration to the solution. The supernatant was decanted and stored in a separate test tube. Water is added to the precipitate and sonicated for 0.5 2 hrs. The precipitate dissolves completely and is mixed with the supernatant removed earlier and sonicated for additional 1 hr. The final concentrations of the AuNP SS BBN conjugate solutions are in the order of 0.5 1 mg mL. Transmission Electron Microscopy TEM 

TEM was used to view and determine the size of AuNPs. TEM samples were prepared as follows 5 L of AuNP solution was placed on the carbon coated copper grid and allowed to sit for five minutes excess solution was removed and the grid was allowed to dry for an additional five minutes to form a thin film of AuNPs. The average size and size distribution histogram of AuNPs were determined by digital processing of Transmission Electron Microscopy images using image processing software such as Adobe Photoshop with Fovea plug ins or Image J.

Cancer Cell lines PC 3 were procured from the Cell Core Facility University of Missouri Columbia. The cancer cells are cultured in RPMI 1640 media and monitored through few passages cell divisions for the retention of original cell properties or else are discarded. The fresh good cells are placed in a media 1 g BSA and 2.46 g HEPS in 500 mL of RPMI1640 and are stored in refrigerator for later use within 24 hrs . The pH of the media is set to 7.4 using NaOH and HCl before performing IC50 experiments. The cells are washed with the pH adjusted media twice. 50 L of PC 3 cell solutions contain about 30 000 cancer cells respectively. Concentration of bombesin binding competitor I 125 Tyr4 BBN 1 14 NH2 iodinated BBN is adjusted such that 50 L of iodinated BBN corresponds to 20 000 counts in the ray detector Riastor Packard .

The AuNP SS BBN conjugate solutions are diluted in 1 3 serial dilutions to obtain at least 5 8 different concentrations. 50 L of each of iodinated BBN AuNP SS BBN solution and cell solution are mixed in a centrifuge tube and vortexed. This mixture is then incubated for 40 minutes at ambient condition of 37 C. 5 COand 95 relative humidity. During the incubation it is expected that most of the AuNP SS BBN is bound to the cells as it has better affinity towards the receptors on the cancer cells than that of iodinated BBN. After incubation the mixture is placed in ice. 1 mL of ice cooled media is added to 150 L of the mixture vortexed and centrifuged at 8000 rpm for a minute. The centrifugation separates the precipitate containing the iodinated BBN and AuNP SS BBN bound cancer cells and supernatant containing unbound iodinated BBN and AuNP SS BBN.

The supernatant is decanted and the precipitate is washed twice more with addition of 1.2 mL of cold media to remove unbound BBN. The tip of the centrifuge tube containing just the precipitate is cut and placed in a test tube and run through the ray detector. The activity measured corresponds to the amount of iodinated BBN left bound to the cancer cells upon addition of AuNP SS BBN. The activity of iodinated BBN is measured for different concentrations of AuNP SS BBN. When almost all the iodinated BBN is displaced by AuNP SS BBN the activity measured is reduced by 95 of the original activity. IC50 value is the concentration of AuNP SS BBN that is responsible for reducing the activity of iodinated BBN bound to cancer cells by half of the original activity. All chemicals were acquired from Fisher except RPMI 1640 acquired from GIBCO.

Juvenile swine have been used to assess biodistribution patterns clinical and clinicopathologic alterations and pharmacokinetic behavior of AuNPs achieved through methods of the invention. The intravenous route of administration has been used in most of the in vivo assessments in the juvenile swine model after it was discovered that oral administration of AuNPs had 

One example method of the invention includes the biodistribution of a novel gold nanoparticle AuNP compound in gum arabic aqueous solution. This was assessed in juvenile swine by measuring with atomic absorption the concentration of gold in tissues. Three pigs were serially sacrificed at times ranging from 30 minutes to 24 hours after intravenous administration of 1.88 mg AuNP kg of body weight. Heart jejunum brain liver spleen kidney and lung gold concentrations were determined to assess the tissue affinity for AuNPs in gum arabic. In a similar experiment 5 groups of 3 pigs were given 1.88 mg kg of THPAL GAAuNP pH 6 7 0.322 mg ml AuNP. Pigs were sacrificed at 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours or 24 hours according to group. Liver kidney spleen small intestine lung heart and brain were collected for AA and NAA analysis. Average gold concentrations were lowest in brain and highest in the liver at all sampling times. At 24 hours post dosing the Au concentrations remaining in the liver and spleen were not significantly different from the 30 minute period suggesting a strong and sustained affinity of the AuNPs for these tissues. This is a surprising result and offers important advantages over the prior art. The AuNP do not decline in concentration over time as fast as markers of the prior art in these organs.

Three castrated male juvenile swine were acclimated for one week followed by the placement of central venous catheters. Pigs were dosed with Maltose AuNP 0.3 mg Au ml IV at a dosage of 2.00 mg Au kg body weight. Serial blood collection occurred at 5 15 30 and 60 minutes then at 2 4 8 and 24 hours for gold analysis. Blood was also collected at time 0 minutes and 24 hours for serum biochemical profiles. Pigs were sacrificed following the final blood collection and lung liver kidney spleen and brain tissues were collected for gold analysis. This preparation behaves very differently from the other AuNP preps in that levels in the liver were quite low with one pig liver below detection. None was detected in brain or kidney in any pig and the highest concentrations were found in the lung followed by the spleen.

Six intact male juvenile swine were assigned to one of two treatment groups. Pigs were dosed with bisphosphonate AuNP by either the IV or oral route according to treatment group. Serial blood draw was performed at time 0 5 15 30 and 60 minutes then at 2 4 and 24 hours for those pigs in group 1 I.V. . Serum calcium was monitored at 0 5 15 30 60 minutes and 2 hours. Blood was collected at 1 2 4 and 24 hours for pigs in group 2 oral . Four hour and 24 hour urine collections were analyzed for gold as a marker for excretion of the AuNP bisphosphonate for both groups. Pigs were sacrificed following the final blood collection and femur liver and kidney tissues were analyzed by AA.

In a study to discern if gum arabic GA were interacting with a specific receptor 3 pigs were given 20 mg kg of 10 mg ml filtered GA solution IV. 30 minutes following GA administration pigs were given 1.88 mg kg GA AuNP 0.6 mg ml solution and blood was collected at 5 15 30 60 and 120 minutes. Blood was also drawn at 24 hours post GA AuNP administration just prior to sacrifice. Liver kidney spleen and lung were collected for AA analysis.

In a second bisphosphonate experiment castrated male juvenile swine were assigned to one of 4 treatment groups. Pigs were dosed with bisphosphonate AuNP s in starch or Gum Arabic at either 2 or 4 mg kg according to study design. Serial blood draw was performed at time 0 5 30 and 60 minutes then at 2 4 24 48 and 72 hours. Pigs were sacrificed following the final blood collection and femur liver lung and kidney tissues were collected for analysis. Heart lung liver and kidney tissue were collected into formalin for histopath.

In a 30 plus day study of GA AuNPs 2 pigs were given 0.3 mg ml GA AuNP solution at a dosage of 2 mg kg IV. Pigs were bled for AA analysis of gold on days and . Certain serum samples were also selected for biochemical analysis to detect any untoward effects. Pigs were sacrificed following the final blood collection. Tissues collected included lung liver kidney spleen femur and brain will be collected for gold analysis and histopathologic examination.

GA AuNP multi CT scan Pig 238 received multiple intravenous doses as indicated below of GA AuNP. Tissues including lung liver kidney spleen and brain were collected for gold analysis and histopathologic examination.

2 mice were given either 1 ml or 0.5 ml Au VK 39 SSBBN C both died. 2 mice were dosed with 0.25 or 0.125 mls of the same solutions and survived although some depression was noted. A fifth mouse was given 0.5 mls of a starch AuNP solution and did fine. All surviving mice were euthanized at 2 hours post dosing and blood pancreas liver kidney spleen and lung were collected weighed and frozen for NAA analysis.

Tramp mice 3 PBTag and 2 PBTag were give 0.1 ml SAuNP 0.7 mg ml IP. 2 Tramp mice both PBTag were given a starch solution one received 1 ml and the other 0.73 ml. All mice were sacrificed at 24 hours post dosing and liver kidney spleen pancreas and blood were collected and weighed for NAA. Prostate was also collected for archiving. Tail snips from each mouse were taken for genotyping.

2 PBTag Tramp mice were dosed with 0.1 ml of 2.1 mg ml Au BBN solution IP. Both mice were sacrificed 24 hours post dosing and tissues were collected and weighed as above for NAA. Tail snips were also taken. Mouse has a prostate mass at necropsy.

Contrast enhancement studies were carried out using phantoms as tissue mimics prepared from gum Arabic gold nanoparticle GA AuNP constructs. Phantom images were obtained at 80 KVp and 140 KVp. A higher mean density of Au compared to the background results in a contrast differential HU . Results from each concentration of GA AuNP used in the computer tomography study and on the effect of cysteine are summarized herein below.

Variation in the pixel values may occur both within the GA AuNP sample regions and the background region. These would be reduced in size for thicker slices or for higher doses. At the lowest concentrations the apparent contrast is negative. This is likely due to the fact that the background material is a tissue mimic and therefore has a slightly higher density and effective atomic number than the aqueous GA AuNP sample. There is a linear relationship between GA AuNP concentration and HU. The slopes of both lines 80 kVp and 140 kVp are approximately 25 HU per milligram of gold concentration per gram of background.

Computed tomography contrast is primarily due to electron concentration which in approximation is proportional to the physical density of individual voxels. It is believed that the high atomic number and greater absorption at 100 keV makes gold an ideal candidate for imaging contrast.

An advantage of methods of the invention utilizing gold nanoparticles is that the ability to circulate in the bloodstream reduces problems with timing of the CT scan following injection of the contrast agent. Furthermore in some methods of the invention bioconjugation of nanoparticles will result in a certain uptake within volumes of interest e.g. Lesions and will cause a localized enhancement that will become apparent to the observer. Iodinated contrast agents are injected at high concentrations 300 mg mL or 2.5 M to achieve a contrast enhancement with a blood concentration of approximately 1 mg mL 7.9 mM . Methods of the invention using targeted nanoparticle concentrations can achieve sufficient local concentration through an accumulation and build up over time.

The uptake and concentration of contrast agent required to visualize lesions will be dependent upon a number of additional variables such as image noise lesion size and lesion shape. All of these affect the receiver operator characteristics of the imaging system in question. When presented with smaller lesions of 3 mm an observer is able to detect these with a critical contrast of HU 6. This would represent a concentration of gold nanoparticles against the background of approximately 300 g per ml or 1.5 mM. These results provide a basis for knowing the required uptake of AuNP in various organ systems or targeted lesions in order to provide sufficient contrast to differentiate against background structures.

Experiments were conducted for CT imaging of liver vena cava and spleen in pigs using methods of the invention. These methods include steps of injection of specific concentrations of Gum Arabic starch coated gold nanoparticles intravenously in pigs followed by CT imaging using a clinical CT scanner. Other stabilizing agents will be useful in other method embodiments with examples including but not limited to agarose and glucose. The specific details of dose ranges and the CT imaging conditions are outlined in the following sections.

Example Method of the Invention Gold Nanoparticle Based Contrast Enhancement in Computed Tomography in Mammals 

Gum Arabic stabilized gold nanoparticles were utilized in this example method of the invention. To evaluate the efficacy of contrast enhancement juvenile swine were dosed with nanoparticles at a rate of approximately 2 45 mg of gold per kg body weight. Steps of introducing other concentration ranges are performed in other method embodiments. CT scans were acquired at several time intervals within two days of the injection using a standard clinical CT scanner. Scans were obtained prior to dosing for evaluating the change in CT number due to the accumulation of gold in particular tissues. Scans were acquired at both 80 kVp and 140 kVp settings. Standard reconstruction methods and reconstruction filters were used and images were evaluated for the same slice location and for regions of interest over the entire organ in question. Animals were sacrificed following CT scans and tissues were analyzed for gold concentration using atomic absorption spectroscopy.

Within one day of gold nanoparticle administration the average liver CT numbers increased by approximately 12 Hounsfield units HU . This corresponded with an uptake of approximately 1.2 mg of gold per cm. There was a change of density within the spleen as well. Increased conspicuity of the hepatic vessels was perceived and endured in additional scans through the study. The observed increase in pixel HU showed that approximately 75 of the injected dose will be taken up in the liver.

This represents a useful discovery. In particular it suggests that the concentration and or total amount of AuNP introduced may vary depending on the organ tissue or tumor site of interest area because in some applications a majority of the AuNP are stopped at the liver less is available for depositing in other organs. Accordingly methods of the invention includes steps of determining the concentration and or total amount of Au to be introduced to a mammal depending on which organ tissue or tumor site is of interest.

The swine exhibited no change in clinico path parameters. Long term biodistribution studies indicate that nanoparticles of this formulation reside in the liver up to 30 days or more following administration. In some methods of the invention Gum Arabic stabilized gold nanoparticles are used to enhance contrast in an animal model liver over an extended time. Importantly the nanoparticles had no deleterious effect on the subject. CT Images of pig liver as obtained through gold nanoparticle contrast enhancements are shown in .

In methods of the invention retention of high concentration of gold nanoparticles within mammal liver allows selective irradiation of liver using high energy X rays. These methods are valuable among other applications when treating primary and metastatic liver tumors. Irradiation with high energy X rays would lead to selective absorption of X rays only within the gold nanoparticles. The proximity of gold nanoparticles in specific organs liver as shown in the current examples ensure selective irradiation of tumor sparing the healthy tissue and thus maximize the therapeutic pay load at the tumor. This approach is applicable for treating human patients with breast prostatic and brain tumors as well.

A Gammex RMI Model 461 phantom was scanned using a Siemens Volume Zoom computed tomography system. Two 24 mL glass vials were filled with aqueous solutions of varying concentrations of GA AuNP and were placed in holders in the phantom. This arrangement presented a tissue like solid water background with GA AuNP contrast inclusions. Scans were performed at tube voltages of 80 kVp and 140 kVp at the same level in the phantom. Images were reconstructed in 4 mm thick slices with a field of view of 208 mm. Results are illustrated in . This Figure shows computed tomography images of the phantom at 80 kVp left and 140 kVp right . The vials containing GA AuNP are at the 9 o clock and 3 o clock positions. A sample with 1.49 mg AuNP per gram background is in the 3 o clock position and the 9 o clock position has a sample with 0.9 mg AuNP per gram background.

Evaluation of the contrast enhancement contribution of GA AuNP was done by loading the digital computed tomography images in a standard display program and then selecting a region of interest on the resultant computed tomography image for each sample and the background. Contrast enhancement is determined in HU HU Hounsfield units for each mass concentration of GA AuNP and each tube voltage.

The stability of AuNPs was evaluated by monitoring max and over a reasonable period of time. The plasmon wavelength max corresponds to the mean size of the nanoparticles and plasmon width corresponds to the size distribution of nanoparticles. It should be noted that a shift in max is associated with either an increase in the mean size of the particles or modification in the surrounding media. Correspondingly any change in indicates either agglomeration of nanoparticles or modification in the surrounding media. A change of less than 10 nm max and during certain time period was deemed adequate to consider AuNPs stable over that period of time in a particular media.

The effect of dilution was evaluated by successive addition of 0.2 mL of DI water to 1 mL of gold nanoparticle solution and subsequent absorption measurements. illustrates the results. There is a linear dependence of absorbance at max on the concentration of gold in accordance with Beer Lambert s Law. It was found that both max and are unaltered for GAAuNP concentration ranging from 0.24 2.4 nM.

The stability of gold nanoparticles was also tested in presence of NaCl cysteine histidine and BSA solutions. 0.5 mL of 35 NaCl 1 cysteine 0.2M histidine and 2 BSA was added to 1 mL of gold nanoparticles solution and incubated for 30 minutes before taking the absorption measurements at different time points. illustrates some results. An alteration of max and of GAAuNPs occurs in cysteine over time. Following the benchmark of change of less than 10 nm in max and during the observation time GAAuNPs can be considered to be stable in the presence of cysteine over a 4 day period.

Lyophilization and freeze thaw stability filtration dialysis centrifugation AuNP SS BBN is stable against lyophilization and freeze thaw stability filtration dialysis centrifugation. These offer important advantages for stability when using methods of the invention. In Vivo Stability Studies of Gold Nanoparticles 

Methods of the invention include steps of maintaining AuNP in vivo in mammals for extended time periods. Stability and pharmacokinetics properties of gold nanoparticles in aqueous solution were assessed in juvenile swine by measuring the percentage of gold content in various organs using Atomic Absorption Spectrometry AAS and Neutron Activation Analysis NAA .

Clinical Route Many methods of the invention utilize an intravenous route of administration. This was used in most of the in vivo assessments in the juvenile swine model after a brief pilot study indicated that oral administration of AuNPs had 

Male juvenile pigs weighing 10 15 kg were acclimatized for a week at the end of which catheters were placed in their jugular vein for intravenous administration of AuNP solutions and blood draws. Freshly synthesized gold nanoparticles solutions GAAuNP and bp GAAuNP were pH adjusted to physiological pH by adding appropriate amount of phosphate buffer pH 7 .

Dosing Regimen and Dosage Using a method of the invention AuNP solutions were intravenously administered to pigs via catheters in doses ranging from 1.88 mg 2 mg AuNP kg of body weight. Serial blood 4 5 mL draws from the catheter were performed at times ranging from 5 minutes to 24 hrs. For each time point 2 5 animals injected with AuNPs were humanely sacrificed at times ranging from 30 minutes to 24 hours post injection. Various organs and tissues heart jejunum brain liver spleen kidneys lungs small intestine and large intestine were excised and weighed for analysis. Results The accumulation and clearance of GAAuNPs is shown in . The results in blood demonstrate facile clearance of metal nanoparticles from the blood stream. As shown by the uptake of GAAuNPs and bp GAAuNPs is maximum in the liver with lesser accumulation in lungs and with much lower accumulation in other organs and tissue. illustrates results at 24 hours. Bio Distribution Studies with AuNP SS BBN

Dosing Regimen and Dosage Mice were dosed with 0.125 or 0.25 mL of the AuNP SS BBN 1 mg of gold conjugate in 1 mL of PBS solutions via intraperitoneal route 

Sample Preparation 1 g of tissue 5 was digested with 1 mL of trace metal concentrated nitric acid HNO in Teflon vials for 12 hours at 85 C. in an oven. Cooled samples were diluted to 10 mL with DI water. For NAA the samples were prepared by placing approximately 100 mg of tissue wet weight into pre cleaned high density polyethylene irradiation vials. The weight of each sample was recorded and the irradiation vial was capped. Blanks duplicates and spiked samples were included in the AAS and NAA sample sets. Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy AAS Brain small intestine and heart were analyzed by furnace atomic absorption using a standard curve spanning 0 40 g L corresponding to tissue gold levels of 0 0.4 g g . Furnace parameters were as specified in the User s Manual for the Perkin Elmer AAnalyst 800 ThGA graphite furnace. Detection level was 1 g L 0.01 g g . Quality control materials duplicates spikes and instrument calibration verification were within appropriate ranges. Liver kidney spleen and lungs were analyzed by flame atomic absorption using a standard curve of 0 4 mg L corresponding to tissue gold levels of 2 400 g g . Flame parameters were as specified in the Au method in the software for the Perkin Elmer AAnalyst 800 flame methods. Duplicates and calibration verification materials were within appropriate ranges. Neutron Activation Analysis NAA Samples were loaded in polyethylene transfer rabbits in sets of nine and were irradiated for 90 seconds in a thermal flux density of approximately 5 10n cms. The samples were then allowed to decay for 24 to 48 hours and live time counted for 1200 seconds at a sample to detector distance of approximately 5 mm. The spectrometer consisted of a 21 high purity germanium detector with a full width half maximum resolution of 1.8 KeV at 1331 KeV and a Canberra 9660 digital signal processor. Dead times ranged from 1 to 11 . The mass of Au was quantified by measuring the 411.8 keV gamma ray from the decay of 198Au t 2.7 days . The area of this peak was determined automatically with the Genie ESP spectroscopy package from Canberra. Nine geometrically equivalent comparator standards were prepared by pipetting approximately 0.1 g of Au from a 10.0 0.5 g mL certified standard solutions high purity standards on paper pulp in the polyethylene irradiation vials. Analysis of the Au comparator standards yielded a relative specific activity average and standard deviation of 237239 6084 counts g 1 Gd n 9 with a relative standard deviation of 2.6 . The estimated concentration of AuNPs in different tissue was expressed in terms of percent injected dose ID or ID g of tissue. Additional Mouse Study

This study was undertaken to demonstrate the ability of gold nanoparticles AuNP of the invention and kits containing the same to provide x ray image contrast in computed CT studies using a microCT scanner and mouse models. 8ICRSC M female mice were inoculated with 106 PC 3 cells on each bilateral flank. Tumors were allowed to grow for three weeks. At this time the mice underwent whole body CT scans at four time points. 1 prior to injection with AuNP 2 immediately following AuNP injection 3 at twenty minutes following AuNP injection and 4 72 hours following AuNP injection. Immediately following the fourth scan animals were sacrificed tissues were harvested and the biodistribution of gold was determined using a neutron activation activity method. AuNP injections were directed into the tumor on the right flank of each mouse. Five mice received 30 l of gum Arabic stabilized AuNP CA AuNP . Three others received an increased dose of between 40 and 60 l. In all animals CT images showed an increase in the attenuation due to the presence of AuNP and the tumor in the tumors. There was a conspicuous difference in the contrast between the tumor injected with AuNP and the tumor that was left as a control on the bilateral flank. The GA AuNP was retained in the tumors at least 72 hours following the injection. The study further confirms that AuNP of the invention is useful for image contrast enhancement. The study also shows that GA AuNP are retained within the tumors of the PC 3 xenograft model. Details of the study follow.

8 female ICRSC M mice were inoculated with 106 PC3 prostate cancer cells bilateral flank. The tumors were allowed to grow for 4 weeks. At the time of the imaging study the tumors were approximately 200 to 300 mg in size.

Mice were scanned using the micro CT scanner at the Biomolecular Imaging Core at HST Veteran s Administration Hospital using the following protocol. 1 pre dose CT scan immediately prior to injection 2 injection of up to 60 l of gum Arabic stabilized gold nanoparticles directly into one of the flank tumors 3 a CT scan immediately following the injection 4 a CT scan approximately 10 minutes following completion of the second CT scan and 5 a CT scan conducted approximately 72 hours following the injection of GA AuNP. GA AuNP solutions contained 7 g of Au per l of solution. Following the completion of the last CT scan the animals were sacrificed and organs and tumors were harvested and collected into vials for NAA analysis at MURR. This was to establish the actual concentration of gold nanoparticles in these tissues.

Images acquired with the microCT scanner using 80 kVp 500 A 300 ms scans with 360 rotations. The cone beam reconstruction provided image sets with 960 512 512 voxels with a voxel size of 103 m . In all eight animals sufficient gold nanoparticle concentrations were present to demonstrate observable contrast change in the CT images. In all eight animals the gold nanoparticles were retained within the tumor for at least 72 hours post injection. Based on CT images the gold nanoparticles tended to collect around the periphery of the tumor. In four of the animals difficulty was encountered during the injection of gold nanoparticles because of the density of the tumor. Successful injection of the intended volume was achieved with 30 l injections. In several of the animals the attempt to inject up to 60 l resulted in leakage from the tumor and an incomplete dose.

The mean CT number of the tumor increased in all eight cases from an initial increase immediately following injection of the AuNP and then showing some decrease over time. In all cases the gold nanoparticles tended to accumulate around the periphery of the tumor.

Results of NAA show that the right flank tumors retained most of the gold. In one case Mouse B the nanoparticles may have entered the vascular system and distributed to the liver and the kidneys as has been observed for these nanoparticles in the swine model. Gold nanoparticles were retained in the tumor injected and did not cross over to the left flank tumor.

This study demonstrates that gold nanoparticles of the invention produce image contrast in CT scans of a small animal model. The intratumoral injection may be useful in some applications but also may not prove to be the optimal route in all clinical applications. Intratumoral injection was mostly successful in the retention of nanoparticles in the tumor with some exception. We speculate that during the injection of animals B and F nanoparticles were injected into vasculature resulting in higher uptake of the nanoparticles in other organs live and spleen . Even with this lower retention there was still enough concentration to visualize contrast. This emphasizes the importance of targeted nanoparticles which this effort did not involve .

