---

title: System and method for electronically discriminating a target
abstract: A target discrimination system monitors an acceleration switch signal to determine an impact of a projectile on a target. During a sample period of approximately 1.0 milliseconds, the system repeatedly samples the acceleration switch signal, compares the sampled acceleration sensor signal with a reference voltage, and sets a comparator data output to logic one if the sampled signal exceeds the reference voltage. Otherwise, the comparator data output is set to logic zero. The system counts the instances that comparator data output equals logic one during the sample period and executes a selected delay. The selected delay is approximately 50 milliseconds if the counted number of instances exceeds a predetermined threshold of approximately two-thirds of the samples and, otherwise, the selected delay is approximately 10 milliseconds. The selective delay enables target discrimination and selective detonation of a projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08091478&OS=08091478&RS=08091478
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08091478
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
The present application claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e of provisional application Ser. No. 61 062 642 filed on Jan. 22 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The present invention generally relates to a fuze for munitions such as explosive projectiles. More particularly the present invention relates to using a discriminating timing device to arm and detonate a fuze for an explosive projectile based on detection by the explosive projectile of the target hardness i.e. the thickness of a wall through which the explosive projectile passes to reach the target at which detonation is desired.

Munitions are getting smarter in guidance and in target detection. Conventional high end munitions currently utilize electronics to detect target impact. These electronics detect that the munition has entered the target detect voids within the target and differentiate types of targets.

This target analysis and function mode determination is an important part of optimization of target effects. Conventional electronic systems on these conventional high end munitions accomplish the optimization of target effects by utilizing on board microprocessors that monitor accelerometers. The accelerometers comprise a precise weight that loads a piezo device such as a piezoelectric or piezoresistive element upon acceleration. This piezo device generates an electrical signal that the on board microprocessor can read. The microprocessor uses the generated electrical signal to determine when to function the munition i.e. when to initiate an explosion of the munition.

Although this technology has proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional improvements. The conventional technique for determining target type is due to cost currently limited to high end munitions. The high cost of the conventional technique is primarily due to the cost of the one or more accelerometers used in target analysis and function mode determination.

Additional conventional bunker munitions use a fixed time delay element in the fuze. The fuze initiates the warhead of the bunker munition some fixed time after impacting a target. The delay time is predetermined for optimal performance against earth and timber bunkers however this predetermined delay time is too long for targets such as a building. In some cases the munition may enter and exit the building before the warhead explodes rendering the warhead ineffective.

Thus there is need for a system and method for an electronic target discrimination for a shoulder fired munition. The need for such a system has heretofore remained unsatisfied.

The present invention satisfies this need and presents a system and an associated method collectively referred to herein as the system or the present system for electronically discriminating a target.

The present system comprises a target discrimination system and a target discrimination module. The target discrimination module monitors a target discrimination circuit to determine an impact of a projectile on a target. During a sample period the target discrimination module repeatedly samples the output from the target discrimination circuit. The target discrimination circuit compares a filtered acceleration switch signal with a reference signal and sets a comparator data output to a value of 5 volts or a digital logic one if the sampled signal exceeds the reference signal. Otherwise the target discrimination circuit sets the comparator data output to a value of zero. The target discrimination module counts a number of instances that comparator data output is equivalent to a logic value of one during the sample period. The target discrimination module executes a selected delay comprising a first delay if the counted number of instances exceeds a predetermined threshold and otherwise selecting a second delay the selected delay enables target discrimination and selective detonation of the projectile.

In one embodiment the sample period comprises approximately 1.0 millisecond. In another embodiment the first delay comprises approximately 50 milliseconds. In a further embodiment the second delay comprises approximately 10 milliseconds. In yet another embodiment the predetermined threshold comprises approximately two thirds of the counted number of instances

The target discrimination circuit comprises an acceleration switch that closes when a projectile impacts a target enabling the system to detect a target impact. The target discrimination circuit further comprises a low pass electronic filter to remove a high resonant frequency from the acceleration switch signal generated at target impact. The target discrimination circuit comprises a comparator for comparing samples of the filtered acceleration switch signal with a reference voltage and generating a comparator data output of a value of approximately 5 volts which equates to digital logic one for each of the samples that exceeds the reference voltage and a value of approximately 0 volt or digital logic zero for each of the samples that falls below the reference voltage. The comparator data output is monitored by the target discrimination module to enable target discrimination.

In one embodiment the acceleration switch comprises an omni directional normally open spring mass acceleration switch. In another embodiment the low pass electronic filter comprises a 1 kHz low pass electronic filter.

The following definitions and explanations provide background information pertaining to the technical field of the present invention and are intended to facilitate the understanding of the present invention without limiting its scope 

Target Hardness the resistance a target presents to a projectile. Targets are divided into two main categories hard and soft. Soft targets are targets that allow the projectile to pass through without significantly deforming the warhead. Both thin walled structures earth and timber bunkers are considered soft targets. While both soft targets a thick walled target such as earth timber and timber bunker present a harder target than a building with thin walls such as plywood.

System determines a target hardness and thereby the target type then relays this information to fuze system which appropriately detonates the munition in response to the determined target hardness. For exemplary purposes only the target hardness is alternatively referenced herein as thickness of a target wall or type of target i.e. a target comprising thick walls such as a earth and timber bunker or a target comprising thin walls such as a building. System determines target hardness based on an acceleration sensor signal registered at impact of the target by projectile . System delays detonation in response to the target hardness as determined by system selecting a longer delay for targets with thick walls and a shorter delay for targets with thin walls. System also continually monitors the crush switch for closure indicating the warhead is crushing on rather than penetrating the target. In such a case system initiates a short delay only enough to allow the front of the warhead to conform to and spread out on the target then commands system to detonate the warhead .

On impact system initiates a timer based on a comparison between data measured by system and data stored in system . Based on the comparison of the measured data and the stored data system determines target hardness. System selects a timer delay based on the determined target hardness. Warhead is detonated when the selected timer delay has expired

The 1 kHz low pass electronic filter removes high resonant frequency from an accelerometer switch signal generated on impact with the target. While a 1 kHz low pass electronic filter is used for illustrative purposes only it should be clear that any analog or digital low pass filter may be used depending on the specific application of system .

The power regulator comprises a power switch a battery a piston actuator a 5 V regulator and a detonator capacitor . The battery provides a voltage of 24 V. The 5 V regulator drops the voltage to 5 V. In one embodiment a capacitor is used as a power source providing the voltage of 24 V. Upon launch of projectile the capacitor is charged with sufficient energy to last the duration of the flight of projectile .

The launch detector optional detects the launch initiation of projectile . In one embodiment the acceleration switch closes on launch and is used as a launch detector . An alternative embodiment according to the present invention comprises a capacitor as power source energizing the capacitor may function as indicator of launch initiation.

Microcontroller comprises a commercially available microcontroller such as for example a PIC16F688 14 microcontroller. In one embodiment the target discrimination module is stored on microcontroller . Alternatively the target discrimination module may be hardware or software on any integrated or discrete circuitry or may comprise a similar analog logic with associated hardware.

The target discrimination module waits for target impact step . The target discrimination module monitors a status of a crush switch step closure of the crush switch overrides the acceleration switch . If the crush switch is closed decision step the target discrimination module executes a delay of 200 microseconds step . The target discrimination module sets the output of a port C of the microcontroller equal to logic 1 to fire a detonator of the projectile step The target discrimination module exits processing step .

The target discrimination module monitors an acceleration switch signal generated by system step . On impact with the target the acceleration switch closes applying the regulated 5 volt signal equivalent to logic 1 to port C of the microcontroller. This is the initial indication to that projectile has impacted the target.

On detection of the logic high of 5 volts the target discrimination module executes a 0.5 millisecond delay step . After the 0.5 millisecond delay the target discrimination module takes sample readings of the output of comparator during a sample period of predetermined time such as for example 1.0 milliseconds step . In one embodiment a system clock of microcontroller operates at a frequency of 1 MHz enabling the target discrimination module to perform samples during the sample period.

According to another embodiment a system clock of micro controller operates at a frequency of 250 KHz enabling the target discrimination module to perform samples during the sample period.

For each sample the target discrimination module records the output from the target discrimination circuit comparator which compares the filtered acceleration switch signal with the reference voltage of comparator step . If the signal is greater than the reference voltage of comparator i.e. greater than 3.85 V decision step the comparator sets its data output equal to 5 volt or digital logic one step . Otherwise the filtered acceleration switch signal is less than the reference voltage of comparator and the comparator sets its data output equal to 0 volt or digital logic zero step . If the sample period has not expired decision step processing returns to step and repeats steps through until the sample period has expired.

After the sample period has expired the target discrimination module counts the number of samples in which the comparator data is equal to logic one step . If a predetermined threshold of the samples yield comparator data output of 5 volts or digital logic one decision step the target comprises thick walls such as those of a earth and timber bunker. In one embodiment the threshold of samples is two thirds. The target discrimination module executes a selective delay comprising a 50 millisecond delay step . The target discrimination module sets the output of port C equal to logic one to fire the detonator step . If at decision step the predetermined threshold of samples of comparator data output of logic one is not met the target comprises thin walls such as that of a building. The target discrimination module executes a selective delay comprising a 10 millisecond delay step and sets the output of port C equal to logic one to fire the detonator step . The selective delay enables target discrimination and selective detonation of projectile .

In contrast waveform is a high frequency waveform that decays faster than the acceleration switch signal generated on impact with a earth and timber bunker. Consequently a lower percentage of samples yields comparator data outputs of value logic 1. While the predetermined threshold of the number of samples that yield comparator data output of value 5 volts or equal to digital logic one is determined through test data it should be clear that any appropriate method for specifying the predetermined threshold may be used.

It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principle of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the system and method for electronically discriminating a target as described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

