---

title: Pore-water profiler
abstract: A pore-water profiler and method for sampling pore water. The pore-water profiler includes a sample intake probe that receives the fluid to be sampled. A clog-resistant first filter filters the fluid as it enters the sample intake probe. A second filter, which has a pore size less than the pore size of the first filter, filters the fluid a second time before the fluid enters a sample container. A sample triggering system connected to the sample container initiates sampling by causing the fluid to be drawn into the sample intake probe. The profiler provides high-resolution (centimeter-scale) vertical pore-water profiles. The sequential filtration of the pore water avoids the problem of sample-circuit clogging, even in sediments dominated by fine or organic-rich particles. The profiler has all non-metallic, acid-washable components that contact the fluid sample, making the profiler suitable for trace-inorganic studies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051727&OS=08051727&RS=08051727
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 08051727
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

The invention relates in general to a fluid sampler and more particularly to an in situ clog resistant pore water sampler for use in collecting water samples to determine depth profiles of chemical constituents across a sediment water interface.

Fluid sampling may be used to monitor environmental changes in water air or other desired fluids and to monitor water quality in ground water and surface water. For example it is desirable to estimate the potential importance of solute flux from the benthos in aquatic systems where long term decadal sediment accumulation of nutrients or toxic substances are of concern. More information regarding the determination of benthic flux in aquatic systems is found in J. S. Kuwabara et al. Quantifying the Benthic Source of Nutrients to the Water Column of Upper Klamath Lake Oreg. 2007 1276 39 pp. 2007 incorporated herein by reference.

Conventional techniques used to sample pore water to quantify the benthic flux of biologically reactive solutes across the sediment water interface are labor equipment and resources demanding. Also where sediment is dominated by fines less than 63 micron particles particularly detrital fines with high organic content e.g. in eutrophic lentic environments conventional samplers can quickly clog to yield inadequate sample volumes.

Therefore there is a need for a simple inexpensive reliable remote sampling device for use in obtaining test samples of a fluid medium for major and trace solutes from remote sites that will not clog when obtaining samples from fine organic rich sediments.

Water quality managers and modelers often require measurements of benthic flux to comprehensively and accurately represent the transport of toxic and nutritive substances in surface waters. The pore water profiler described below is a cost effective field device to respond to such requirements for a wide range of environmentally significant solutes that are transported across the sediment water interface.

The non metallic pore water profiler described herein provides pore water samples near the sediment water interface to produce high resolution centimeter scale vertical concentration profiles for trace solutes even when the bed material is dominated by fine or organic rich particles that tend to clog filters and screens. The pore water profiler is suitable for investigations involving a wide variety of biologically reactive solutes e.g. micronutrients macronutrients and toxic trace metals some requiring ultra clean sampling protocols. Concentration profiles can then be used to determine a diffusive flux of solute across the sediment water interface. Particularly in lentic systems this benthic flux has been demonstrated to be a significant if not dominant source of biologically reactive solute to the water column. In addition samples collected by the pore water profiler have been found to be suitable for analysis of other solutes of environmental interest e.g. dissolved organic carbon .

The pore water profiler is deployed and triggered to collect filtered pore water from variable depths above and below the sediment water interface. The profiler collects the filtered pore water through a series of sintered porous polyethylene probes and in line filters to avoid the problem of sample syringes that become plugged with fine sediments. Unlike conventional samplers the pore water profiler is suitable for trace solute analyses because all wetted surfaces are acid washable.

An exemplary embodiment of a pore water profiler is illustrated in . The pore water profiler also referred to as a fluid sampler is a non metallic field sampling device with one or more towers each tower also referred to as a sampling circuit housing housing a portion of a sampling circuit see . Each sampling circuit is exposed to the water column and collects pore water from a defined depth relative to the sediment water interface. All sample wetted parts are acid washable and hence compatible with studies involving trace inorganic solutes.

In the embodiment shown in the pore water profiler includes six independent sampling circuits . illustrates only one of the sampling circuits for clarity. The other sampling circuits are similar. Each sampling circuit includes a probe also referred to as a sample intake probe that is connected to a lower plate through an opening . The lower plate is preferably made of polyvinyl chloride PVC . An enlarged view of the probe is shown in . An exploded view of the probe is shown in . The probe includes a probe stem an inner probe fitting an outer probe fitting also referred to as a tip and a filter . The filter is preferably a sintered porous polyethylene ring .

The probe stem has external threads to connect to the lower plate and internal threads to receive the inner probe fitting . The probe stem is preferably made of polypropylene. The tip is preferably made of polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF and is conical to facilitate sediment penetration but may be flattened or rounded. The sintered porous polyethylene ring is slipped over the threaded upper perimeter of the tip and the tip is attached to the bottom of the inner probe fitting . The sintered porous polyethylene ring is preferably made from a porous 30 micron polyethylene pipe. Pore water enters the probe through the sintered porous polyethylene ring which filters the pore water. The length of each probe stem may be varied to place each sintered porous polyethylene ring at a desired sediment depth.

The inner probe fitting is preferably made from a 25 mm PVDF rod. The inner probe fitting is both threaded and bored to create a channel to transfer pore water from the sintered porous polyethylene ring to an acid washed tube . The inner probe fitting also has a groove cut circumferentially to receive the pore water from the sintered porous polyethylene ring . The tube transfers the pore water to an in line filter see . The tube is connected to the inner probe fitting and the in line filter using commercially available barbed fittings and respectively which are preferably made of PVDF. The tube may be made of for example Viton or C Flex tubing.

Referring back to the in line filter is preferably a 0.2 micron filter and has a membrane composition that is selected based upon the solutes of interest. For example hydrophilic PVDF polyvinylidene fluoride membranes are acid washable and may be useful for trace inorganic solutes. Filtrate from the in line filter then passes through a commercially available plastic valve into a sample container . In the embodiment shown in the sample container is a commercially available all plastic 60 mL syringe . The volume held by each syringe can be selected based on the intended application. For example a typical commercially available all plastic syringe can hold a volume of up to 60 mL. Alternatively different sized syringes may be used with the pore water profiler .

Referring to each of the sampling circuits is supported above the lower plate by one of the towers . In the embodiment shown in each tower includes an upper tower member a lower tower member a tower union a lower tower member stop and a tower base . The upper tower member the lower tower member and the tower union are preferably made from a transparent PVC pipe to aid in viewing assembly of the pore water profiler and subsequent sample retrieval. For example the upper tower member and the lower tower member may be made from 2 inch PVC pipe and the tower union may be made from a 2 inch PVC pipe coupling. The tower base and the lower tower member stop are preferably made from PVC. After the upper tower member the lower tower member and the tower union are joined together e.g. by adhesively affixing the tower union to the upper tower member and the lower tower member a portion is cut out or removed to create a vertical slot that facilitates access to and assembly of the sampling circuits and sample retrieval. The lower tower member rests in the lower tower member stop and the lower tower member stop is attached to the lower plate through the tower base which is attached to the lower plate . The tower bases may be attached to the lower plate for example by being affixed to grooves as shown in the embodiment of the top side of the lower plate in . The grooves form seats for attaching e.g. by cementing the tower bases to the lower plate .

An enlarged view of the syringe within the tower is shown in . The syringe includes a flange a plunger and a syringe tip . Within each tower slots are provided to slide the syringe flange in place with the syringe tip and the valve facing in a downward direction. A bracket is slid onto the top of the syringe plunger . The bracket is preferably made of PVC and is illustrated in more detail in . Referring to a spacer rod presses against the bracket to hold the syringe plunger in position until the pore water profiler is triggered. The spacer rod is preferably made of PVC. Elastomeric rings are slipped into a central hole of the bracket and are connected to the top of the tower to generate tension on the syringe plunger . In the embodiment shown in the elastomeric rings are rubber o rings which are connected to the top of the tower using a hook that hangs from the top of the upper tower member . The hooks are preferably made of PVC.

Referring back to the pore water profiler is assembled from the lower plate upward before being deployed. To aid assembly the lower plate is supported at four corners by legs that attach to the lower plate . The legs may optionally be removed to facilitate sampling. The legs are preferably made of PVC and are threaded to attach to the lower plate through openings . The lower tower member stops are attached to the tower bases on the lower plate and the lower tower member which has been affixed to the tower union and the upper tower member is placed in the lower tower member stop . Then the probes are attached to the under side of the lower plate through the openings .

Referring to for each tower one end of the tube is fed through the probe and the other end is fed through an opening in the tower base into the lower tower member to the in line filter . The acid washed syringe filled with 10 Mohm double dionized water is emptied through the sampling circuit for a final rinse of all acid washed wetted parts. The syringe is secured in the tower slots as described above and the bracket with the o rings is slid onto the syringe plunger . The lower end of the spacer rod is placed against the bracket and the upper end abuts the top of the vertical cutout to secure the position of the syringe plunger before the pore water profiler is triggered.

The o rings are extended from the bracket onto the hooks hanging off the walls of the upper tower members . Tension from the o rings pulls on the syringe plungers to collect the samples after the pore water profiler is triggered. The end of each spacer rod touching the bracket is connected to a central hub that slides along i.e. up and down a central pipe also referred to as a central support . In the embodiment shown in the central hub is a disk and the spacer rod is tied to the disk using a line preferably a inch nylon cord. The central disk is illustrated in more detail in . In the embodiment of the central disk shown in the ends of the lines are knotted to secure each into one of six vertical holes . The lines are further secured in the central disk with an o ring placed around the central disk . The central disk is preferably made of PVC. The central pipe is preferably made of PVC and is threaded to attach to the lower plate as shown in .

As shown in an upper plate is placed on the tops of the upper tower members after all of the sampling circuits have been assembled. In the embodiment of the upper plate shown in the under side of the upper plate has grooves to receive the upper tower members . Referring to the upper end of the central pipe is fed through an opening in the upper plate . The upper tower members and the upper plate are secured with a fastener . In the embodiment shown in the fastener is a retaining nut . The retaining nut is preferably made of PVC and is shown in more detail in . Plastic coated weights are secured to the pore water profiler e.g. by being tied onto the tower bases to control buoyancy.

In addition to the line that connects the spacer rod to the central disk several additional lines are used to deploy the pore water profiler as shown in . A first line is attached to the central disk through a hole see fed through an opening in the upper plate and connected to a top ring . A trigger line not shown is fed through the top ring so that when quickly tugged all the spacer rods are dislodged and sample collection in all of the sampling circuits begins. Alternatively the pore water profiler may be adapted so that other forms of energy may be used to trigger the pore water profiler . For example a plastic or plastic coated spring may be used rather than the o rings . A buoy line connects to the retaining nut on the upper plate through a hole see and to a buoy not shown to keep the pore water profiler vertical while deployed. A tether line is fed through the central pipe and secured to the lower plate through an opening in the lower plate . The pore water profiler is lowered onto the bottom sediment using the tether line after which the trigger line is tugged and pulled out of the water. The tether line may be secured to another buoy not shown to facilitate retrieval of the pore water profiler .

Upon retrieval of the pore water profiler each of the valves is shut and the sample syringes are removed from the towers and doubled bagged in argon filled plastic zipped bags. Argon filled bags containing the filtered samples are then transported to the laboratory in refrigerated coolers for chemical analyses.

In one embodiment of the invention in addition to sampling the water just above approximately 1 centimeter the sediment water interface the pore water profiler was used to collect interstitial water from five depths within the top 10 centimeters of a lakebed with the length of the probe stems being varied to place the sintered porous polyethylene rings at 1.0 2.0 3.3 5.5 and 10.0 cm to characterize dissolved solute vertical gradients that is six independent sampling circuits . Each sampling circuit collected filtered 0.2 micron water into acid washed 60 mL syringes . After being lowered onto the lakebed the pore water profiler was tripped mechanically to begin sample collection and retrieved approximately 24 hours later. Dye experiments indicated that this extended sampling period avoided short circuiting of samples between depths and along pore water profiler surfaces. After retrieval the valves for the sample syringes were closed placed in argon filled bags and refrigerated in darkness for subsequent chemical analyses.

The pore water profiler described herein provides numerous benefits. For example in a single deployment the profiler collects multiple pore water samples from different depths to generate a high resolution centimeter scale vertical concentration profile minimizing relative errors between depths. This permits the determination of diffusive flux measurements for solutes.

The sequential filtration of pore water avoids the problem of sample circuit clogging even in sediments dominated by fine or organic rich particles that would typically plug sample collection ports of conventional samplers.

The pore water profiler is non metallic with wetted parts i.e. parts exposed to the sample that are all acid washable. No electronic or motorized parts are used to avoid sample contamination by exposed metal parts. As all parts exposed to the sample are acid washable the pore water profiler is suitable for trace inorganic studies requiring ultra clean sub micromolar sampling techniques. In addition samples collected by the pore water profiler have been found to be suitable for analysis of other solutes of environmental interest e.g. dissolved macronutrients and organic carbon .

The pore water profiler collects the pore water sample directly in situ without the need for an ultra clean field laboratory to process the samples. The filtered sample retrieved from each sampling circuit can be transported directly from the field for chemical analysis which minimizes the potential for field contamination of samples and minimizes sample storage time where particulate matter may alter the speciation or partitioning i.e. the chemical forms of the analytes. The direct sampling afforded by the pore water profiler permits greater spatial and temporal coverage i.e. less field time and effort is required to collect the sample . No incubation experiments are needed. Facilities are often not available or too resource intensive to construct to perform core extrusion studies. The pore water profiler offers a convenient and cost effective alternative.

Benthic flux measurements have been determined by various methods but are consistently resource intensive. Because all of the parts can be machined from commercially available stock or purchased directly the pore water profiler can cost efficiently provide spatial and temporal coverage of a wide range of aquatic systems where contaminants may accumulate and remobilize in and transport from benthic sediments.

The pore water profiler described herein is easily assembled disassembled transported and deployed. Because the pore water profiler does not require the use of any heavy equipment e.g. a high speed centrifuge pump motor etc. the pore water profiler is a stand alone device that can be carried by one person for field deployment to determine pore water concentration gradients.

Although the invention has been described relative to a specific embodiment thereof it is not so limited and many modifications and variations thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. For example the lengths of the probe stems can be modified lengthened so that the profiler can sample the water column of a lake or estuary. Such water column profiles have been used to estimate benthic flux by eddy diffusivity. Similar stem length modifications can be employed to sample the air column using a suspended profiler.

These and other variations and modifications of the illustrated embodiment will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

