---

title: Engine control system having speed-based timing
abstract: A control system for an engine having a cylinder is disclosed having an engine valve movable to regulate a fluid flow of the cylinder and an actuator associated with the engine valve. The control system also has a controller in communication with the actuator. The controller is configured to receive a signal indicative of engine speed and compare the engine speed signal with a desired engine speed. The controller is also configured to selectively regulate the actuator to adjust a timing of the engine valve to control an amount of air/fuel mixture delivered to the cylinder based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08113173&OS=08113173&RS=08113173
owner: Caterpillar Inc.
number: 08113173
owner_city: Peoria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE FC02 01CH11079 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure is directed to an engine control system and more particularly to an engine control system having speed based timing.

Combustion engines are often used for power generation applications. These engines can be gaseous fuel driven and implement lean burn during which air fuel ratios are higher than in conventional engines. For example these gas engines can admit about 75 more air than is theoretically needed for stoichiometric combustion. Lean burn engines increase fuel efficiency because they utilize homogeneous mixing to burn less fuel than a conventional engine and produce the same power output.

Though using lean burn may increase efficiency gaseous fuel powered engines may be limited by variations in combustion pressures between cylinders of the engine. Gaseous fuel powered engines are typically pre mix charge engines where fuel and air are mixed within an intake manifold and then admitted to a combustion chamber of the engine. Variations in combustion pressure result from more air fuel mixture being admitted into some cylinders than into other cylinders. This uneven distribution of the air fuel mixture can result in pockets of the air fuel mixture burning outside of the envelope of normal combustion increasing the tendency for an engine to knock. The combustion pressure variations can result in cylinder pressures that are significantly higher than average peak cylinder pressures normally seen within the engine. And because significantly higher cylinder pressures can cause the engine to operate improperly a margin of error is required to accommodate the pressure variations. As a result the engine may be required to operate at a level far enough below its load limit to compensate for the pressure variation between the cylinders thereby lowering the load rating of the engine. Additionally the pressure variations can cause fluctuation in engine torque and speed which may be undesirable for some electrical power generation applications.

One attempt to reduce pressure variations within an engine is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 027 769 the 769 patent issued to Yoshida et al. The 769 patent discloses an engine system having an air intake. The intake includes multiple intake passages each intake passage including a throttle valve. The 769 patent also discloses a control apparatus and a sensing device for detecting abnormalities in throttle valve operation. The control apparatus adjusts the operation of the throttle valves based on input from the sensing device thereby adjusting an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to the engine. By this adjustment an appropriate amount of air fuel mixture may be delivered to the engine thereby maintaining a desired combustion pressure despite the occurrence of abnormalities in one of the multiple intake passages.

Although the control apparatus of the 769 patent may control a plurality of throttle valves based on sensed data relating to abnormal operation the apparatus may incur a lag time between adjustment of the throttle valves and a corresponding change in the amount of the air fuel mixture delivered to the cylinders. The lag time may occur because it takes an amount of time such as for example about 3 5 seconds between adjusting a throttle valve and a corresponding change in combustion pressure to occur within the cylinders. The lag time may reduce the responsiveness of the engine to engine speed adjustments which may be undesirable for operation.

The present disclosure is directed to overcoming one or more of the shortcomings set forth above and or other deficiencies in existing technology.

In accordance with one aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a control system for an engine having a cylinder. The control system includes an engine valve movable to regulate a fluid flow of the cylinder and an actuator associated with the engine valve. The control system also includes a controller in communication with the actuator. The controller is configured to receive a signal indicative of engine speed and compare the engine speed signal with a desired engine speed. The controller is also configured to selectively regulate the actuator to adjust a timing of the engine valve to control an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to the cylinder based on the comparison.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method for operating an engine. The method includes regulating a fluid flow to a cylinder of the engine via a valve associated with the cylinder and receiving a signal indicative of engine speed. The method also includes comparing the engine speed signal with a desired engine speed and selectively regulating a timing of the valve to control an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to the cylinder based on the comparison.

Prime mover may include an engine system as illustrated in . Engine system may include an engine a variable valve actuation system an intake system an exhaust system and a control system . Intake system may deliver air and or fuel to engine while exhaust system may direct combustion gases from engine to the atmosphere. Variable valve actuation system may vary a valve timing of engine to affect fluid flow of engine . Control system may control an operation of variable valve actuation system intake system and or exhaust system .

Engine may be a four stroke diesel gasoline or gaseous fuel powered engine. As such engine may include an engine block at least partially defining a plurality of cylinders only one shown in . In the illustrated embodiment of engine is shown to include six cylinders . However it is contemplated that engine may include a greater or lesser number of cylinders and that cylinders may be disposed in an in line configuration a V configuration or in any other suitable configuration.

A piston may be slidably disposed within each cylinder so as to reciprocate between a top dead center TDC position and a bottom dead center BDC position during an intake stroke a compression stroke a combustion or power stroke and an exhaust stroke. Returning to pistons may be operatively connected to a crankshaft via a plurality of connecting rods . Crankshaft may be rotatably disposed within engine block and connecting rods may connect each piston to crankshaft so that a reciprocating motion of each piston results in a rotation of crankshaft . Similarly a rotation of crankshaft may result in a sliding motion of each piston between the TDC and BDC positions. As shown in the lower portion of the graph of piston may move through the intake stroke from the TDC position crank angle of about 0 degrees to the BDC position crank angle of about 180 degrees to draw air and or fuel into the respective cylinder . Piston may then return to the TDC position crank angle of about 360 degrees thereby compressing the air fuel mixture during the compression stroke. The compressed air fuel mixture may ignite causing piston to move back to the BDC position crank angle of about 540 degrees during the power stroke. Piston may then return to the TDC position crank angle of about 720 degrees to push exhaust gas from cylinder during the exhaust stroke.

One or more cylinder heads may be connected to engine block to form a plurality of combustion chambers . As shown in cylinder head may include a plurality of intake passages and exhaust passages integrally formed therein. One or more intake valves may be associated with each cylinder and movable to selectively inhibit flow between intake passages and combustion chambers . One or more exhaust valves may also be associated with each cylinder and movable to selectively inhibit flow between combustion chambers and exhaust passages . Additional engine components may be disposed in cylinder head such as for example a plurality of sparkplugs that ignite an air fuel mixture in combustion chambers .

Engine may include a plurality of valve actuation assemblies that affect movement of intake valves and or exhaust valves to help minimize engine knock. Each cylinder may have an associated valve actuation assembly . Referring back to each valve actuation assembly may include a rocker arm connected to move a pair of intake and or exhaust valves via a bridge . Rocker arm may be mounted to cylinder head at a pivot point and connected to a rotating camshaft by way of a push rod . Camshaft may be operatively driven by crankshaft and may include a plurality of cams that engage and move push rods .

As pistons move through the four stokes of the combustion cycle i.e. intake compression power and exhaust crankshaft may cyclically drive each valve actuation assembly to move intake valves and or exhaust valves . As shown in valve actuation assembly may cause intake valves to open during the intake stroke of piston . Actuation of intake valves may generally follow profile shown in the upper portion of the graph of . Intake valve may open during the intake stroke for example at a crank angle of about 690 to about 0 and may close at a crank angle of about 210 . Intake valves may displace from a closed position to a maximum open position during which the air fuel mixture may be admitted into combustion chamber .

Varying a closing of intake valve may change an amount of trapped mass that may be trapped within cylinder and or a combustion pressure of cylinder . As shown by a family of curves in a closing of intake valve may be selectively varied during the intake and or the compression strokes by any appropriate amount. When intake valve is closed within the family of curves intake valve may be selectively advanced and or retarded. When intake valve is advanced within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted to be further away from profile less air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in a decrease in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . When intake valve is retarded within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted toward profile more air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in an increase in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . Intake valve may also be selectively varied during the intake and or the compression strokes by any appropriate amount within a family of curves shown in . When intake valve is closed within the family of curves the closing may be selectively advanced and or retarded. When intake valve is retarded within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted to be further away from profile less air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in a decrease in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . When intake valve is advanced within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted toward profile more air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in an increase in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder .

Varying the closing of intake valves may affect an engine speed and torque of engine similar to a throttle valve but with a faster response than a throttle valve. For example when the closing of intake valve is advanced within the family of curves or retarded within the family of curves the amount of trapped mass within cylinders may decrease i.e. the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders may be decreased which has a similar effect as decreasing an opening of a throttle valve to cylinders but with a faster response time. The closing of intake valve may thereby be adjusted away from a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. away from unadjusted profile when the engine speed is higher than desired. Because the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is decreased via intake valves there may be an instantaneous decrease in the engine speed of engine . An engine speed of engine may thereby be substantially instantaneously reduced.

In contrast when the closing of intake valve is retarded within the family of curves or advanced within the family of curves the amount of trapped mass within cylinders may increase i.e. the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders may be increased which has a similar effect as increasing an opening of a throttle valve to cylinders but with a faster response time. The closing of intake valve may thereby be adjusted toward a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. toward unadjusted profile when the engine speed of engine is lower than desired. Because the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is increased via intake valves there may be an instantaneous increase in the engine speed of engine . An engine speed of engine may thereby be substantially instantaneously increased.

It is contemplated that an opening of exhaust valve may also or alternatively be advanced or retarded. As illustrated in an opening of exhaust valve may be selectively advanced or additionally opened during portions of the compression and or power strokes. Because more air fuel mixture may escape from cylinder during the compression and or power strokes when the opening of exhaust valve is advanced or during an additional opening the amount of trapped mass within cylinder may decrease. The opening of exhaust valve may also be selectively retarded during portions of the compression and or power strokes. Because less air fuel mixture may escape from cylinder when the opening of exhaust valve is retarded the amount of trapped mass within cylinder may increase.

Variable valve actuation system may include a plurality of variable valve actuation devices configured to adjust timings of intake valves and or exhaust valves to adjust engine speed and torque. As shown in variable valve actuation device may be attached to and or enclosed by a valve housing of engine . Each cylinder may have an associated variable valve actuation device . Variable valve actuation device may selectively adjust an opening timing closing timing and or lift magnitude of intake valves and or exhaust valves . Variable valve actuation device may be any suitable device for varying a valve timing such as for example a hydraulic pneumatic or mechanical device.

In one example variable valve actuation device may be operatively connected to rocker arm intake valve and or exhaust valve to selectively disconnect a movement of intake and or exhaust valves from a movement of rocker arm . For example variable valve actuation device may be selectively operated to supply hydraulic fluid for example at a low or a high pressure in a manner to resist closing of intake and or exhaust valves . That is after valve actuation assembly is no longer holding intake valve and or exhaust valve open the hydraulic fluid in variable valve actuation device may hold intake valve and or exhaust valve open for a desired period. Similarly the hydraulic fluid may be used to advance a closing of intake valve and or exhaust valve so that intake valve and or exhaust valve closes earlier than the timing affected by valve actuation assembly . Alternatively intake and or exhaust valves may be moved solely by variable valve actuation device without the use of cams and or rocker arms if desired.

Variable valve actuation device may selectively advance or retard a closing of intake and or exhaust valves during the different strokes of engine . Intake valve may be closed early for example at a crank angle of between about 180 and about 210 . Control system may also control variable valve actuation device to retard a closing of intake valve . Intake valve may be closed for example at a crank angle of between about 210 and about 300 . Exhaust valve may be varied to open at a crank angle of between about 510 and about 570 and may be varied to close at a crank angle of between about 700 and about 60 . Exhaust valve may also be opened at a crank angle of about 330 and closed at a crank angle of about 390 . Control system may control each variable valve actuation device to vary the valve timing of each cylinder independently of the valve timing of any other cylinder . Control system may thereby independently control a throttling of each cylinder solely by varying a timing of intake valves and or exhaust valves .

Referring back to intake system may direct air and or fuel into combustion chambers and may include a single fuel injector a compressor and an intake manifold . Compressor may compress and deliver an air fuel mixture from fuel injector to intake manifold .

Compressor may draw ambient air into intake system via a conduit compress the air and deliver the compressed air to intake manifold via a conduit . This delivery of compressed air may help to overcome a natural limitation of combustion engines by eliminating an area of low pressure within cylinders created by a downward stroke of pistons . Therefore compressor may increase the volumetric efficiency within cylinders allowing more air fuel mixture to be burned resulting in a larger power output from engine . It is contemplated that a cooler for further increasing the density of the air fuel mixture may be associated with compressor if desired.

Fuel injector may inject fuel at a low pressure into conduit upstream of compressor to form an air fuel mixture. Fuel injector may be selectively controlled by control system to inject an amount of fuel into intake system to substantially achieve a desired air to fuel ratio of the air fuel mixture. Variable valve actuation device may vary a timing of intake valves and or exhaust valves to control an amount of air fuel mixture that is delivered to cylinders .

Exhaust system may direct exhaust gases from engine to the atmosphere. Exhaust system may include a turbine connected to exhaust passages of cylinder head via a conduit . Exhaust gas flowing through turbine may cause turbine to rotate. Turbine may then transfer this mechanical energy to drive compressor where compressor and turbine form a turbocharger . In one embodiment turbine may include a variable geometry arrangement such as for example variable position vanes or a movable nozzle ring. Variable geometry arrangement may be adjusted to affect the pressure of air fuel mixture delivered by compressor to intake manifold . Turbine may be connected to an exhaust outlet via a conduit . It is also contemplated that turbocharger may be replaced by any other suitable forced induction system known in the art such as for example a supercharger if desired.

Control system may include a controller configured to control the function of the various components of engine system in response to input from one or more sensors . Sensors of control system may measure engine parameters such as for example engine load torque and speed. Engine speed may be measured by any method known in the art such as for example by mechanically measuring a rotation of one or more engine components. Sensors may also be configured to monitor an engine parameter indicative of a pressure within cylinders i.e. robustness pressure and or temperature of a combustion event .

Based on the signals controller may determine an engine parameter such as for example an engine speed of engine . Controller may compare the engine speed signals to a desired engine speed. The desired engine speed may be a predetermined value such as for example a value based on an engine mapping of engine and or operator input. The desired values may be stored within a map of controller . Based on a comparison of the measured engine speed with the desired engine speed controller may make adjustments to the timings of valves .

The desired engine speed may be determined so as to maintain a constant speed and load response during an operation of genset . For example the desired engine speed may be such that a tight engine speed control is maintained during power generation by genset . If an engine speed is detected that deviates from the desired engine speed control system may make adjustments to the timings of valves to maintain the desired engine speed i.e. to hold constant speed during power generation .

Controller may be any type of programmable logic controller known in the art for automating machine processes such as a switch a process logic controller or a digital circuit. Controller may serve to control the various components of engine system . Controller may be electrically connected to the plurality of variable valve actuation devices via a plurality of electrical lines . Controller may also be electrically connected to the plurality of sensors via a plurality of electrical lines . Controller may be electrically connected to variable geometry arrangement via an electrical line . It is also contemplated that controller may be electrically connected to additional components and sensors of engine system such as for example an actuator of fuel injector if desired.

Controller may include input arrangements that allow it to monitor signals from the various components of engine system such as sensors . Controller may rely upon digital or analog processing of input received from components of engine system such as for example sensors and an operator interface. Controller may utilize the input to create output for controlling engine system . Controller may include output arrangements that allow it to send output commands to the various components of engine system such as variable valve actuation devices variable geometry arrangement fuel injector and or an operator interface.

Controller may have stored in memory one or more engine maps and or algorithms. Controller may include one or more maps stored within an internal memory and may reference these maps to determine a required change in engine operation a modification of an engine parameter e.g. engine speed or torque required to affect the required change in engine operation and or a capacity of engine for the modification. Each of these maps may include a collection of data in the form of tables graphs and or equations.

Controller may have stored in memory algorithms associated with determining required changes in engine operation based on engine parameters such as for example engine speed. For example controller may include an algorithm that performs a statistical analysis of the engine speed of engine from combustion cycle to combustion cycle. Based on input received from sensors the algorithm may determine information such as for example engine speed averages or statistical deviations of engine speed.

The disclosed engine control system may be used in any machine having a combustion engine where consistent operation thereof is a requirement. For example the engine control system may be particularly applicable to gaseous fuel driven engines utilized in electrical power generation applications. Operation of genset will now be described.

During normal combustion events pistons may move through the four strokes of the combustion cycle. The movement of pistons may drive the actuation of intake valves and exhaust valves via valve actuation assembly .

When controller receives signals indicative of an engine speed that is higher than a desired engine speed the valve timing of intake valve may be adjusted to substantially instantaneously decrease an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders . Controller may compare the engine speed signals to the desired engine speed and determine that the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is required to be decreased. Controller may advance the closing of intake valve within the family of curves or retard the closing of intake valve within the family of curves . This may decrease the amount of trapped mass within cylinders which has the effect of decreasing an opening of a throttle valve to cylinders but with a faster response than a throttle valve. The closing of intake valve may thereby be adjusted away from a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. away from unadjusted profile . Because an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is decreased there may be an instantaneous decrease in the engine speed of engine . Controller may thereby adjust a valve timing to control an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders .

When controller receives signals indicative of an engine speed that is lower than a desired engine speed the valve timing of intake valve may be adjusted to substantially instantaneously increase an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders . Controller may compare the engine speed signals to the desired engine speed and determine that the amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is required to be increased. Controller may retard the closing of intake valve within the family of curves or advance the closing of intake valve within the family of curves . This may increase the amount of trapped mass within cylinders which has the effect of increasing an opening of a throttle valve to cylinders but with a faster response than a throttle valve. The closing of intake valve may thereby be adjusted toward a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. toward unadjusted profile . Because an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders is increased there may be an instantaneous increase in the engine speed of engine . Controller may thereby adjust a valve timing to control an amount of air fuel mixture delivered to cylinders .

By adjusting the valve timing of each cylinder engine system may improve a response for engine speed changes of engine . Because of the improved response engine may be operated closer to its load limit because less margin of error is required to protect engine components from significantly higher cylinder pressures caused by combustion pressure variations. Additionally air flow to engine may be regulated solely by varying valve timing which may significantly reduce lag time associated with conventional throttling e.g. using a conventional throttle valve and allow engine parameters such as engine speed to be controlled more tightly.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed method. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed method and apparatus. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope being indicated by the following claims and their equivalents.

