---

title: Location sharing
abstract: Geographic location data is sent from a first device to a second device with a modified message to signal the presence of geographic location data associated with the message. The message can include (or attach) the geographic location data or file, or the message can include a link to a network-based resource which the second device can use to obtain the geographic location data. In some implementations, when a user of the first device views a location on a map display of the first device, a graphical user interface is presented to allow the user to select an option to share the geographic location with the second device. The second device receives geographic location data or a link from the first device which can trigger a map display on the second device showing the location of the first device and, optionally, the location of the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08369867&OS=08369867&RS=08369867
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08369867
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080630
---
Conventional mobile devices are often dedicated to performing a specific application. For example a mobile phone provides telephony services a personal digital assistant PDA provides a way to organize addresses contacts and notes a media player plays content email devices provide email communication a browser allows a user to surf the Internet etc. Modern mobile devices can include two or more of these applications.

Some mobile devices e.g. the iPhone include a short message service SMS for sending instant messages to one or more receiving devices. Some mobile devices also provide a map service which can use positioning technology to determine a user s geographic location and display an icon on a map display to show the user s current location. The map service may also allow the user to obtain directions to a desired destination and display a route to the destination on the map display.

A geographic location of a first device is determined. Input is obtained specifying sharing of the geographic location with a second device. Geographic location data is sent from a first device to a second device with a modified message to signal the presence of geographic location data associated with the message. The message can include or attach the geographic location data or file or the message can include a link to a network based resource which the second device can use to obtain the geographic location data. In some implementations when a user of the first device views a location on a map display of the first device a graphical user interface is presented to allow the user to select an option to share the geographic location with the second device. The second device receives geographic location data or a link from the first device which can trigger a map display on the second device showing the location of the first device and optionally the location of the second device. A route from the first device to the second device can be generated and displayed on the map display of the first or second device.

Other implementations are disclosed which are directed to systems methods and computer readable mediums. For example in some implementations contact information can be encoded in a text message and sent to a device where it can be displayed and added to an address book application.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device an e mail device a network data communication device a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device. In some implementations particular display objects can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the display objects can for example invoke corresponding functionality. For example touching the display object would invoke an email application on the mobile device for sending text and geographic location data files as described in reference to .

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching a phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of an email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching a Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching a media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the top level graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object. Touching the maps object can for example invoke a mapping and location based services environment and supporting functionality likewise a selection of any of the display objects can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the Global Positioning System GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example one or more navigation services can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location request and receive route directions or request and receive listings of businesses in the vicinity of a particular location for example.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching for example a Web object.

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions. The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The mobile device can for example receive a communication A from an access point e.g. a Wi Fi access point . The communication A can include information about the access point e.g. the Internet Protocol IP address and or the Media Access Control MAC address of the access point . The communication A can include other information such as the latitude and longitude of the access point . The information received in communication A can be sent to the location based service in communication B. The location based service can for example with a degree of uncertainty or error estimate a first geographic area in which the mobile device is currently located using the information sent in communication B. In some implementations the location based service is a system or service that estimates with some degree of uncertainty or error the position of a device using a database of access points mapped to geographic locations. The accuracy or precision or the degree of uncertainty or error of the estimated position can for example be based on the range of the technology the accuracy of the range or some other metric. Accuracy or precision of an estimated position can be affected by one or more factors including for example inherent properties or limitations of the technology or system and a level of deployment of the given technology or system e.g. number of access points or cell towers in the vicinity of the device .

In some implementations the accuracy or precision of the estimated position is stated in units of distance e.g. the estimated position is accurate up to 50 meters . That is the actual position of the mobile device can be within the accuracy distance from the estimated position. For example the first geographic area can be a circle centered at the latitude and longitude of the estimated position with a radius equal to the stated accuracy or precision e.g. 38 meters if the accuracy of the estimated position is up to 38 meters . The first geographic area can alternatively be represented on a map display as a square rectangle oval diamond triangle or some other shaped enclosed region.

In some other implementations unique signatures of multiple access points e.g. five or more can be compared to a local cache on the mobile device or a central reference database at location based service via network communication e.g. communication B can be sent to the location based service . The location based service can use the unique signatures to estimate the latitude and longitude of the center of the first geographic circle with an m meter radius e.g. about 20 meters .

In some implementations location based service includes positioning services and reference database information provided by SKYHOOK WIRELESS of Boston Mass.

The mobile device can receive a communication A from cell tower . The cell communication A can include for example information identifying the cell tower . In some implementations the cell communication A can also include the latitude and longitude of the cell tower . The identifying information and or the latitude and longitude of the cell tower can be sent to the location based service in communication B. The location based service can estimate a position of the mobile device using the information included in communication B and estimate an accuracy of the estimate position. Thus for example the location based service can estimate a second geographic area in which the mobile device is currently located. In some implementations the second geographic area is represented on a map as a circular region centered at the estimated position and with a radius equal to the accuracy of the estimated position. In some other implementations the second geographic area can represented on a map by a square or rectangular shaped enclosed region to name a few additional examples.

In some implementations the position and the geographic area of the mobile device can be estimated using a cell of origin positioning technology. In some other implementations the second geographic area can be determined by cell tower triangulation.

The first and second geographic areas can be sent to the mobile device by communications and respectively. The mobile device can present on the touch sensitive display for example a map view including an indication of one of the geographic areas if that one is entirely contained within the other geographic area including the case where the boundaries of the geographic areas touch but otherwise no part of the one of the geographic area is outside of the other geographic area . For example a map view that includes an indication of the first geographic area can be presented if the first geographic area is completely contained within the second geographic area. The mobile device can present a map view that includes an indication of the second geographic area if the first geographic area is not completely contained within the second geographic area. For example if the technology system or service used to estimate the first geographic area has a greater level of accuracy or precision detail than the technology system or service used to estimate the second geographic area and the first geographic area is determined to be more accurate or precise based on the first geographic area being entirely within the second geographic area the mobile device can use the first geographic area. The level of detail of the technology can for example be determined by a priority table stored in the mobile device .

In another example the first geographic area can be estimated using the access point and the second geographic area can be estimated using the cell tower . In this example the access point was moved from its original location and the latitude and longitude coordinates of the access point as they are known to location based service are incorrect and the mobile device is not actually located within the first geographic area. The cell tower provided correct location based data and the mobile device is located within the second geographic area. In this situation the first and second geographic areas do not overlap so the mobile device would display a map view indicating the second geographic area. The mobile device can be used to determine the accuracy of the first and second geographic areas or an external server or servers can be used.

The location based service and location based service can run on the same device or on separate devices. For example the location based services and can run on servers communicating with the mobile device through a network e.g. WAN . The servers can be separate servers or the same server. The location based services and can alternatively run on the mobile device .

The mobile device can for example connect to additional devices or services not shown for location based services instead of or in addition to the access point and the cell tower . Such devices or services could include a Bluetooth device GPS radio or TV towers or cellular grids to name a few examples. For example the mobile device can connect to peer devices with the Bluetooth communication device and receive location based information from other mobile devices and or Bluetooth enabled devices. In some implementations the mobile device can determine or estimate its position and or geographic area using other technologies e.g. GPS . In some implementations the geographic area determined or estimated using any of these other technologies can be used e.g. displayed in lieu of the geographic area estimated using location based services or e.g. Wi Fi or cellular positioning techniques if the geographic area determined or estimated using the other technologies is contained entirely within the geographic area estimated using location based services or and if the other technologies are more accurate or precise according to the priority table stored in the mobile device .

In some implementations a location sharing option is presented on the mobile device which includes one or more applications that are available for sending geographic location data to other devices e.g. other mobile devices or desktop computers . In this example there is a button for email and a button for SMS messaging. Other applications can also be used such as Enhanced Messaging Service EMS and Multimedia Messaging Service MMS . The geographic location data can be for the current location of the sending device or for any other geographic location e.g. a location of a destination landmark business mutual contact .

If the button is touched then an email user interface can be presented to the user with a geographic location data file automatically attached to the email message. The user can compose a text message for the email and send the email to another device. At the receiving device the attached file can be detected and used to trigger a map display showing the sender s location and optionally the geographic location of the receiving device.

If the button is touched then an SMS user interface can be presented to the user. As described further in reference to the geographic location data can be provided with the SMS message. The SMS message can be coded or formatted at the sending device to enable the receiving device to detect the presence of the geographic location data with the message. Upon such detection one or actions can be performed.

Input is received specifying an option to share location information associated with the first mobile device . An example user interface is the page shown in . The user can select from one or more applications to share location data . Some examples of applications are email and instant messaging. For email or instant messaging applications a message composed by the user can be received 910 .

With some applications such as SMS messaging applications the amount of data that can be sent with a text message is limited. The location information e.g. address or position coordinates can be included in a URL that is sent to the receiving device. To reduce the size of the URL a short identifier or alias can be created for the URL e.g. using hashing techniques and sent to the second device in place of the longer URL. When the recipient user touches or clicks on the alias the receiving device redirects the short identifier or alias to the longer URL containing the geographic location data. In some implementations the geographic location data can be sent as a file to the receiving device where it can be opened and read. In some implementations the indicator or alias redirects the receiving device to a network based resource e.g. a map service server for receiving the geographic location data and any other related information.

In some implementations the text message string can be optionally modified e.g. coded or formatted to signal the presence of geographic location data associated with the message . The modifying can be detected by the receiving device and used by the receiving device to initiate one or more actions on the receiving device as described in reference to . Some example formatting techniques can include adding one or more spaces or symbols to a text string changing the style size or font of the text string e.g. bold italic . For example a message sent from 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. may be formatted as follows 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. In this example two spaces were added to the beginning of the text string. These spaces can be detected by the receiving device and used to inform the receiving device that the text message is an address. The receiving device can invoke a map service client to display the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. on a map display of the receiving device. While any suitable coding or formatting technique can be used it may be desirable to select a code or format that is human readable and has a low probability of being part of text composed by the user or otherwise makes the text difficult to read. In some implementations where the device is a mobile phone a GSM7 alphabet or similarly known alphabet can be used to indicate the presence of geographic location data with a message.

The location data e.g. the URL and optionally modified text message is sent to the receiving device using the selected location sharing application . In some implementations the sending device can broadcast geographic location data to multiple devices. The user can set a schedule for the broadcast. For example the user can set the device to broadcast geographic location data at a desired frequency and duration e.g. every hour for a week .

In some implementations a user can activate a mode on the mobile device for continuous location sharing. For example a first user can continually track the location of a second user who has agreed to share their location with the first user. This can be a useful feature for two users who are trying to find each other at a crowded public venue or in a city etc.

In some implementations a first user can ask a second user for their location in several ways. As described above a mode can be activated where a user s mobile device location is continually shared to allow tracking. A location can be requested using text messaging. Mobile devices of recipient users can detect the messages and automatically present a user interface for requesting location sharing. A dedicated location sharing user interface can be presented on the mobile device. The dedicated user interface could be displayed in a maps application for example.

In some implementations in addition to location information contacts can be shared as an email e.g. as a vcard or as an SMS message. For contact sharing between mobile devices an SMS message may be restricted to text of a GSM character set. One issue with receiving a contact as a text message is how to format the information in the contact. In some implementations the SMS message can use space encoding or encoding using non visible characters to delineate data fields in the contact information. Upon receipt the encoded SMS message is decoded and the contact information is added to appropriate fields of a new contact in an address book application for example. Additionally formatting information can be stripped from a v card or contact prior to sending the v card or contact information over SMS.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output.

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

