---

title: Pharmaceutical phenylquinoline and chromen-2-one triazole compounds
abstract: 

Compounds of Formula I are useful as anti-atherosclerotic, anti-asthmatic, anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective agents.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960409&OS=07960409&RS=07960409
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 07960409
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080201
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 900 353 filed Feb. 8 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 899 471 filed Feb. 5 2007.

The instant invention involves novel compounds which are useful as inhibitors of leukotriene biosynthesis.

Inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis has been an active area of pharmaceutical research for many years. The leukotrienes constitute a group of locally acting hormones produced in living systems from arachidonic acid. Leukotrienes are potent contractile and inflammatory mediators derived by enzymatic oxygenation of arachidonic acid by 5 lipoxygenase. One class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors are those known to act through inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO .

The major leukotrienes are Leukotriene B abbreviated as LTB LTC LTDand LTE. The biosynthesis of these leukotrienes begins with the action of the enzyme 5 lipoxygenases on arachidonic acid to produce the epoxide known as Leukotriene A LTA which is converted to the other leukotrienes by subsequent enzymatic steps. Further details of the biosynthesis as well as the metabolism of the leukotrienes are to be found in the book Leukotrienes and Lipoxygenases ed. J. Rokach Elsevier Amsterdam 1989 . The actions of the leukotrienes in living systems and their contribution to various diseases states are also discussed in the book by Rokach.

In general 5 LO inhibitors have been sought for the treatment of allergic rhinitis asthma and inflammatory conditions including arthritis. One example of a 5 LO inhibitor is the marketed drug zileuton ZYFLO which is indicated for the treatment of asthma. More recently it has been reported that 5 LO may be an important contributor to the atherogenic process see Mehrabian M. et al. Circulation Research 2002 Jul. 26 91 2 120 126.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment and prevention of conditions affected by 5 LO inhibition further treatment options are needed. The instant invention addresses that need by providing novel 5 LO inhibitors which are useful for inhibiting leukotriene biosynthesis.

The instant invention relates to compounds of Formula I which are leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors methods for their preparation and methods and pharmaceutical formulations for using these compounds in mammals especially humans.

The compounds of Formula I are useful as pharmaceutical agents to slow or halt atherogenesis. Therefore the instant invention provides a method for treating atherosclerosis which includes halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically evident comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment. The instant invention also provides methods for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease events comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis or having an atherosclerotic disease event.

Additionally the instant invention involves the use of compounds of Formula I as anti asthmatic anti allergic anti inflammatory and cytoprotective agents. They are also useful in treating angina cerebral spasm glomerular nephritis hepatitis endotoxemia uveitis and allograft rejection. The instant invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

The instant invention further provides the use of a compound of Formula I in combination with other therapeutically effective agents. Additional embodiments will be evident from the following detailed description.

The novel leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors of the instant invention are compounds of structural Formula I

In one embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula I having structural Formula Ia wherein the variables are as defined in Formula I 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula Ia having structural Formula Ib wherein the variables are as defined in Formula I 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula I having structural Formula Ic wherein the variables are as defined in Formula I 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula Ic having structural Formula Id wherein the variables are as defined in Formula I 

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class A wherein A is selected from a a 5 membered aromatic ring containing 3 4 carbon atoms and 1 2 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur b pyridinyl and c phenyl wherein A is optionally mono or di substituted and particularly wherein the 1 2 optional substituents are independently selected at each occurrence from F Cl Calkyl optionally substituted with one to five fluorines and Calkoxy optionally substituted with one to five fluorines. In a subclass of this class are compounds wherein A is phenyl optionally mono or di substituted and particularly wherein the 1 2 optional substituents on the phenyl are independently selected at each occurrence from F Cl Calkyl optionally substituted with one to five fluorines and Calkoxy optionally substituted with one to five fluorines and more particularly wherein the phenyl is mono or di substituted with F.

Within each of Formulas I Ia and Ib and compounds of Class A wherein Ris present is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class B wherein Ris selected from H and Calkyl and more particularly wherein Ris H.

Within each of Formulas I Ic and Id and compounds of Class A wherein Ris present is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class C wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H cyano and CONRRparticularly CONH and more particularly wherein Ris cyano.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B and C is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class D wherein X is CRRR.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B C and D is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class E wherein Y is CH .

Within each of Formulas I and Ia and Classes A B D and E wherein is present is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class F wherein is a double bond.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B C D E and F is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class G wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H OH F Calkyl OCH and OC O CH. In a sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from H and OH. In another sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris OH.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B C D E F and G is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class H wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Ccycloalkyl phenyl and Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro. In a sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from CH CH Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF and cyclopropyl. In another sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from CHCHand cyclopropyl.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B C D E F G and H is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro and Calkyl substituted with R. In a sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from CH CHCH cyclopropyl CHCOOCalkyl and Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF. In another sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from CF CHCHand cyclopropyl.

Within each of Formulas I Ia and Ic and Classes A B C D E F G H and I wherein Ris present is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class J wherein Ris selected from H and Calkyl and more particularly Ris H.

Within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and Classes A B C D E F G H I and J is a class of compounds for convenience referred to as Class K wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H OH F Calkyl OCH and OC O CH Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Ccycloalkyl phenyl and Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro and Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro and Calkyl substituted with R. In a sub class of this class are compounds wherein Ris selected from H and OH Ris selected from CH CH Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF and cyclopropyl and Ris selected from CH CHCH cyclopropyl CHCOOCalkyl and Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF. In a further sub class within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and each of Classes A through J are compounds wherein Ris OH Ris selected from CHCHand cyclopropyl and Ris selected from CF CHCHand cyclopropyl. In yet a further sub class within each of Formulas I Ia Ib Ic and Id and each of Classes A through J are compounds wherein Ris OH Ris CHCHand Ris CF.

The compounds of this invention including compounds referenced as those of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib Formula Ic Formula Id or any other generic structural formulas used herein to describe the compounds of this invention are intended to encompass compounds falling within the scope of each of these structural formulas including pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters and solvates thereof where such salts esters and solvates are possible.

Herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to non toxic salts of the compounds employed in this invention which can generally be prepared by reacting the free acid with a suitable organic or inorganic base particularly those formed from cations such as sodium potassium aluminum calcium lithium magnesium zinc and tetramethylammonium as well as those salts formed from amines such as ammonia ethylenediamine N methylglucamine lysine arginine ornithine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine diethanolamine procaine N benzylphenethylamine 1 p chlorobenzyl 2 pyrrolidine 1 yl methylbenzimidazole diethylamine piperazine morpholine 2 4 4 trimethyl 2 pentamine and tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane. When the compound of the present invention is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid and the like. Particularly preferred are citric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of this invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives can be employed. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters include but are not limited to Calkyl e.g. methyl ethyl pivaloyloxymethyl and Calkyl substituted with phenyl dimethylamino and acetylamino. Acyl derivatives of alcohol groups such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can similarly be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics of pharmaceutical compounds for use as pro drugs or sustained release or formulations.

Some of the compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention includes all such possible isomers in racemic racemic mixture and resolved enantiomerically pure forms and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of compounds of the present invention may exist as polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention. Some of the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds. The invention includes both E and Z geometric isomers.

Compounds of this invention may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by e.g. fractional crystallization from suitable solvents e.g. methylene chloride hexanes or EtOAc hexanes or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Alternatively any stereoisomer of a compound of this invention may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

As used herein alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms e.g. methyl Me ethyl Et n propyl Pr n butyl Bu n pentyl n hexyl and the isomers thereof such as isopropyl i Pr isobutyl i Bu secbutyl s Bu tertbutyl t Bu isopentyl isohexyl and the like. Cycloalkyl means a monocyclic saturated carbocyclic ring having the specified number of carbon atoms e.g. 3 4 5 or 6 carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

The term Calkenyl as used herein refers to a straight or branched 2 6 carbon chain with at least one carbon carbon double bond. Examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to vinyl CH CH allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like. The term Ccycloalkenyl as used herein means a non aromatic monocyclic ring having from 5 to 7 carbon atoms in the ring with at least one carbon carbon double bond.

The term optionally substituted means unsubstituted or substituted and therefore the generic structural formulas described herein encompass compounds containing the specified optional substituent as well as compounds that do not contain the optional substituent. Each variable is independently defined each time it occurs within the generic structural formula definitions.

The term heterocycle and derivatives thereof such as heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring mean an aromatic partially unsaturated or saturated ring containing one or more carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms such as nitrogen oxygen and sulfur but may be more specifically defined where appropriate in the specification for example with respect to degree of saturation number of members i.e. atoms in the ring and or the type and quantity of heteroatoms in the ring. The term heteroaryl refers to a heterocyclic ring which is aromatic. The point of attachment in a compound structure may be via any carbon or nitrogen in the heterocyclic or heteroaryl ring which results in the creation of a stable structure. The heterocyclic ring may be substituted on any available carbon or nitrogen in the ring which results in the creation of a stable structure.

Examples of 5 membered aromatic rings containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl rings within the definition of A include but are not limited to thienyl furanyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl and tetrazolyl.

Examples of 6 membered aromatic rings containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl rings within the definition of A include but are not limited to pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl. The instant invention also includes pyridinyl N oxide analogs of compounds containing a pyridinyl ring and such analogs are included within the scope of Formula I and all other generic structural formulas described herein which may contain such a pyridinyl ring. For example in Formula I when X is pyridinyl both pyridinyl and pyridinyl N oxide are intended to be encompassed 

The ability of the compounds of this invention to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. Accordingly this invention provides a method for preventing the synthesis the action or the release of leukotrienes in a mammal which comprises administering to said mammal a 5 LO inhibitory effective amount of a compound of this invention. Such 5 LO inhibitory activity can be measured using the Human 5 Lipoxygenase Enzyme Assay and 5 Lipoxygenase Human Whole Blood Assay described herein. Since leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators also provided is method of treating an inflammatory condition in a mammal which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a mammal in need of such treatment.

The inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes also indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to treat prevent or ameliorate atherosclerosis in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore the compounds of this invention can be used for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

The method of this invention serves to prevent or slow new atherosclerotic lesion or plaque formation and to prevent or slow progression of existing lesions or plaques as well as to cause regression of existing lesions or plaques. Accordingly one aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis including halting or slowing atherosclerotic plaque progression comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. This method includes halting or slowing progression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun i.e. existing atherosclerotic plaques as well as halting or slowing formation of new atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerosis.

Another aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for effecting regression of atherosclerosis including effecting regression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Also provided is a method comprising administering to a patient who has atherosclerosis a compound of this invention with the objective of preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture. Therefore this invention provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient having atherosclerotic plaque.

This invention also involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment including. for example a patient who is at risk for developing atherosclerosis.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A compound of the instant invention may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists.

Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment such as a patient who is at risk for such an event. The patient in need of such treatment may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

This invention also provides a method for treating preventing or ameliorating angina and or myocardial ischemia comprising administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount as appropriate of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Additionally the activity of the instant compounds as leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors makes them useful for treating preventing or ameliorating 1 pulmonary disorders including diseases such as asthma chronic bronchitis and related obstructive airway diseases 2 allergies and allergic reactions such as allergic rhinitis contact dermatitis allergic conjunctivitis and the like 3 inflammation such as arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease 4 pain 5 skin disorders such as atopic eczema and the like 6 cardiovascular disorders such hypertension platelet aggregation and the like 7 renal insufficiency arising from ischaemia induced by immunological or chemical cyclosporin etiology and 8 migraine or cluster headache 9 ocular conditions such as uveitis 10 hepatitis resulting from chemical immunological or infectious stimuli 11 trauma or shock states such as burn injuries endotoxemia and the like 12 allograft rejection 13 prevention of side effects associated with therapeutic administration of cytokines such as Interleukin II and tumor necrosis factor 14 chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis bronchitis and other small and large airway diseases 15 cholecystitis 16 multiple sclerosis 17 proliferation of myoblastic leukemia cells 18 pulmonary fibrosis 19 respiratory syncytial virus 20 acne and 21 sleep apnea.

Particularly the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the prophylaxis of asthma and for chronic treatment of asthma. The compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the treatment of asthma 1 as an alternative to low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma 2 as concomitant therapy with low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma or 3 as concomitant therapy in patients with persistent asthma who are inadequately controlled on inhaled corticosteroids ICS or on combined ICS long acting beta agonist LABA therapy. The compounds can be used for treatment of asthmatic patients including but not limited to steroid resistant non responder asthmatics asthmatics for whom leukotriene modifiers have previously failed smoking asthmatics and aspirin sensitive asthmatics.

The compounds can be administered to patients to 1 improve FEVI Forced Expiratory Volume in one minute 2 improve morning and evening PEF Peak Expiratory flow 3 reduce beta agonist use measured by puffs day 4 reduce inhaled systemic steroid use. 5 improve daytime asthma symptoms 6 reduce number of nocturnal awakenings 7 improve asthma control days 8 reduce number of asthma exacerbations wherein an exacerbation is defined as requiring systemic steroid an emergency room visit hospitalization an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit decrease in A.M. PEF by 20 or A.M. PEF 70 from baseline minimum increase 2 puffs or increased symptom score of 50 9 reduce the number of asthma attacks measured as of days with at least one attack over a specified period of total days wherein the attack is one that requires systemic steroid use an emergency room visit hospitalization or an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit 10 reduce the number of acute asthma attacks 11 reduce blood and sputum eosinophils and or 12 prevent and treat EIB exercised induced bronchoconstriction .

Additionally the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis including seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis.

Thus the compounds of the present invention may also be used to treat or prevent mammalian especially human disease states such as erosive gastritis erosive esophagitis diarrhea cerebral spasm premature labor spontaneous abortion dysmenorrhea ischemia noxious agent induced damage or necrosis of hepatic pancreatic renal or myocardial tissue liver parenchymal damage caused by hepatoxic agents such as CCland D galactosamine ischemic renal failure disease induced hepatic damage bile salt induced pancreatic or gastric damage trauma or stress induced cell damage and glycerol induced renal failure. Leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors also act as inhibitors of tumor metastasis and exhibit cytoprotective action.

The cytoprotective activity of a compound may be observed in both animals and man by noting the increased resistance of the gastrointestinal mucosa to the noxious effects of strong irritants for example the ulcerogenic effects of aspirin or indomethacin. In addition to lessening the effect of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs on the gastrointestinal tract animal studies show that cytoprotective compounds will prevent gastric lesions induced by oral administration of strong acids strong bases ethanol hypertonic saline solutions and the like. Two assays can be used to measure cytoprotective ability. These assays are A an ethanol induced lesion assay and B an indomethacin induced ulcer assay and are described in EP 140 684. In particular the compounds of the invention would be useful to reduce the gastric erosion caused by co administration of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor such as rofecoxib VIOXX etoricoxib ARCOXIA and celecoxib CELEBREX and low dose aspirin.

In addition the compounds of this invention can also be used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . As described in S. Kilfeather Chest 2002 vol 121 197 airway neutrophilia in COPD patients is believed to be a contributing source of inflammation and is associated with airway remodeling. The presence of neutrophils is mediated in part by LTB and treatment with the instant compounds could be used to reduce neutrophilic inflammation in patients with COPD and reduce the rate of COPD exacerbations. In particular the compounds of this invention could be used for daily preferably once daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction associated with COPD including chronic bronchitis and emphysema.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk for diseases and medical conditions affected by inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A therapeutically effective amount or prophylactically effective amount as appropriate of a compound of Formula I is intended for use in the methods and pharmaceutical compositions of this invention.

The magnitude of prophylactic or therapeutic dose of a compound of this invention will of course vary with the nature of the severity of the condition to be treated and with the particular compound and its route of administration. It will also vary according to the age weight and response of the individual patient. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment to slow progression of existing atherosclerosis and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of an atherosclerotic disease event or formation of new lesions. In general the daily dose range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti allergic or anti atherosclerotic use and generally uses other than cytoprotection lie within the range of from about 0.001 mg to about 100 mg per kg body weight of a mammal preferably 0.01 mg to about 10 mg per kg and most preferably 0.1 to 1 mg per kg in single or divided doses. On the other hand it may be necessary to use dosages outside these limits in some cases.

In the case where an oral composition is employed a suitable daily dosage range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti allergic or anti atherosclerotic use is e.g. from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day and preferably from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg per kg. For cytoprotective use a suitable daily dosage range is from 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 10 mg to about 100 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day.

For use where a composition for intravenous administration is employed a suitable daily dosage range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti atherosclerotic or anti allergic use is from about 0.001 mg to about 25 mg preferably from 0.01 mg to about 1 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day and for cytoprotective use from about 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 1 mg to about 10 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day. For the treatment of diseases of the eye ophthalmic preparations for ocular administration comprising 0.001 1 by weight solutions or suspensions of the compounds of this invention in an acceptable ophthalmic formulation may be used.

The exact amount of a compound of this invention to be used as a cytoprotective agent will depend on inter alia whether it is being administered to heal damaged cells or to avoid future damage on the nature of the damaged cells e.g. gastrointestinal ulcerations vs. nephrotic necrosis and on the nature of the causative agent. An example of the use of a compound of this invention in avoiding future damage would be co administration of a compound of this invention with an NSAID that might otherwise cause such damage for example indomethacin . For such use the compound of this invention is administered from 30 minutes prior up to 30 minutes after administration of the NSAID. Preferably it is administered prior to or simultaneously with the NSAID for example in a combination dosage form .

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a compound of this invention as an active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing a mammal especially a human with an effective dosage of a compound of the present invention. For example oral rectal topical parenteral ocular pulmonary nasal and the like may be employed. Dosage forms include tablets troches dispersions suspensions solutions capsules creams ointments aerosols and the like. For use in treating or preventing atherosclerosis and related disease events oral formulation is preferred.

The compositions include compositions suitable for oral rectal topical parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous ocular ophthalmic pulmonary nasal or buccal inhalation or nasal administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the conditions being treated and on the nature of the active ingredient. They may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy.

For administration by inhalation the compounds of the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or nebulisers. The compounds may also be delivered as powders which may be formulated and the powder composition may be inhaled with the aid of an insufflation powder inhaler device. The preferred delivery system for inhalation is a metered dose inhalation MDI aerosol which may be formulated as a suspension or solution of a compound of this invention in suitable propellants such as fluorocarbons or hydrocarbons.

Suitable topical formulations of a compound of this invention include transdermal devices aerosols creams ointments lotions dusting powders and the like.

In practical use the compounds of this invention can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed such as for example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like in the case of oral liquid preparations such as for example suspensions elixirs and solutions or carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like in the case of oral solid preparations such as for example powders capsules and tablets with the solid oral preparations being preferred over the liquid preparations. Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit form in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If desired tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.

In addition to the common dosage forms set out above the compounds of this invention may also be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 845 770 3 916 899 3 536 809 3 598 123 3 630 200 4 008 719 and 5 366 738 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid a non aqueous liquid an oil in water emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. Such compositions may be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy but all methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more necessary ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product into the desired presentation. For example a tablet may be prepared by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Desirably each tablet cachet or capsule contains from about 1 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient for example but not limited to 10 mg 20 mg 30 mg 40 mg 50 mg and 75 mg. The following are examples of representative pharmaceutical dosage forms for the compounds of this invention 

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. Additionally a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for the treatment of asthma allergies and allergic conditions inflammation COPD or erosive gastritis. The medicament comprised of a compound of this invention may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described below.

One or more additional active agents may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention in a single dosage formulation or the active agents of the combination may be administered to the patient in separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents. Unless otherwise specified reference herein to compounds of this invention being used in combination with other active agents or used as part of combination therapy or the like encompasses both a single pharmaceutical composition comprised of a compound of this invention with one or more additional active agents as well as a pharmaceutical composition comprised of a compound of this invention administered as part of a combination therapy with one or more other separately formulated active agents.

In addition to the compounds of this invention the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can also contain other active agents i.e. ingredients and the pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of this invention may be used for combination therapy with one or more other separately formulated active agents such as cyclooxygenase inhibitors non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs peripheral analgesic agents such as zomepirac diflunisal and the like. The weight ratio of the compound of this invention to the second active ingredient may be varied and will depend upon the effective dose of each ingredient. Generally an effective dose of each will be used. Thus for example when a compound of this invention is combined with an NSAID the weight ratio of the compound of said compound to the NSAID will generally range from about 1000 1 to about 1 1000 preferably about 200 1 to about 1 200. Combinations of a compound of this invention and other active ingredients will generally also be within the aforementioned range but in each case an effective dose of each active ingredient should be used.

NSAIDs can be characterized into five groups 1 propionic acid derivatives 2 acetic acid derivatives 3 fenamic acid derivatives 4 oxicams and 5 biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The propionic acid derivatives which may be used comprise alminoprofen benoxaprofen bucloxic acid carprofen fenbufen fenoprofen fluprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen indoprofen ketoprofen miroprofen naproxen oxaprozin pirprofen prano profen suprofen tiaprofenic acid and tioxaprofen. Structurally related propionic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be included in this group. Thus propionic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs having a free CH CH COOH or CHCHCOOH group which optionally can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt group e.g. CH CH COONa or CHCHCOONa typically attached directly or via a carbonyl function to a ring system preferably to an aromatic ring system.

The acetic acid derivatives which may be used comprise indomethacin which is a preferred NSAID acemetacin alclofenac clidanac diclofenac fenclofenac fenclozic acid fentiazac furofenac ibufenac isoxepac oxpinac sulindac tiopinac tolmetin zidometacin and zomepirac. Structurally related acetic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus acetic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs having a free CHCOOH group which optionally can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt group e.g. CHCOONa typically attached directly to a ring system preferably to an aromatic or heteroaromatic ring system.

The fenamic acid derivatives which may be used comprise flufenamic acid meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid niflumic acid and tolfenamic acid. Structurally related fenamic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus fenamic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which contain the basic structure 

The biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives which can be used comprise diflunisal and flufenisal. Structurally related biphenyl carboxylic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which contain the basic structure 

The oxicams which can be used in the present invention comprise isoxicam piroxicam sudoxicam and tenoxican. Structurally related oxicams having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus oxicams as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which have the general formula 

The following NSAIDs may also be used amfenac sodium aminoprofen anitrazafen antrafenine auranofin bendazac lysinate benzydanine beprozin broperamole bufezolac cinmetacin ciproquazone cloximate dazidamine deboxamet delmetacin detomidine dexindoprofen diacerein di fisalamine difenpyramide emorfazone enfenamic acid enolicam epirizole etersalate etodolac etofenamate fanetizole mesylate fenclorac fendosal fenflumizole feprazone floctafenine flunixin flunoxaprofen fluproquazone fopirtoline fosfosal furcloprofen glucametacin guaimesal ibuproxam isofezolac isonixim isoprofen isoxicam lefetamine HCl leflunomide lofemizole lonazolac calcium lotifazole loxoprofen lysin clonixinate meclofenamate sodium meseclazone nabumetone nictindole nimesulide orpanoxin oxametacin oxapadol perisoxal citrate pimeprofen pimetacin piproxen pirazolac pirfenidone proglumetacin maleate proquazone pyridoxiprofen sudoxicam talmetacin talniflumate tenoxicam thiazolinobutazone thielavin B tiaramide HCl tiflamizole timegadine tolpadol tryptamid and ufenamate. The following NSAIDs designated by company code number see e.g. Pharmaprojects may also be used 480156S AA861 AD1590 AFP802 AFP860 AI77B AP504 AU8001 BPPC BW540C CHINOIN 127 CN100 EB382 EL508 F1044 GV3658 ITF182 KCNTEI6090 KME4 LA2851 MR714 MR897 MY309 ONO3144 PR823 PV102 PV108 R830 RS2131 SCR152 SH440 SIR133 SPAS510 SQ27239 ST281 SY6001 TA60 TAI 901 4 benzoyl 1 indancarboxylic acid TVX2706 U60257 UR2301 and WY41770.

Finally NSAIDs which may also be used include the salicylates specifically acetyl salicylic acid and the phenylbutazones and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In addition to indomethacin other preferred NSAIDs are acetyl salicylic acid diclofenac fenbufen fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen ketoprofen naproxen phenylbutazone piroxicam sulindac and tolmetin. Pharmaceutical compositions and combinations comprising compounds of this invention may also contain inhibitors of the biosynthesis of the leukotrienes such as are disclosed in EP 138 481 Apr. 24 1985 EP 115 394 Aug. 8 1984 EP 136 893 Apr. 10 1985 and EP 140 709 May 8 1985 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in combination with leukotriene antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 106 565 Apr. 25 1984 and EP 104 885 Apr. 4 1984 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and others known in the art such as those disclosed in EP Application Nos. 56 172 Jul. 21 1982 and 61 800 Jun. 10 1982 and in U.K. Patent Specification No. 2 058 785 Apr. 15 1981 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Pharmaceutical compositions and combinations comprising compounds of this invention may also contain as the second active ingredient or be used in combination therapy with prostaglandin antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 11 067 May 28 1980 or thromboxane antagonists such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 237 160. They may also contain or be used with histidine decarboxylase inhibitors such as fluoromethylhistidine described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 325 961. The compounds of this invention may also be advantageously combined with an Hor H receptor antagonist such as for instance acetamazole aminothiadiazoles disclosed in EP 40 696 Dec. 2 1981 diphenhydramine cimetidine famotidine framamine histadyl promethazine ranitidine terfenadine fexofenadine loratadine desloratadine and cetirazine and like compounds such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 283 408 4 362 736 and 4 394 508. The pharmaceutical compositions may also contain or be used in combination with a K H ATPase inhibitor such as omeprazole disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 255 431 and the like. Compounds of this invention may also be usefully combined with mast cell stabilizing agents such as 1 3 bis 2 carboxychromon 5 yloxy 2 hydroxypropane and related compounds described in British Patent Specifications 1 144 905 and 1 144 906. Another useful pharmaceutical composition comprises compounds of this invention in combination with serotonin antagonists such as methysergide the serotonin antagonists described in 316 126 131 1985 and the like. Each of the references referred to in this paragraph is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Other advantageous pharmaceutical combinations comprise the compounds of this invention in combination with anti cholinergics such as ipratropium bromide and tiotropium bronchodilators such as the beta agonist salbutamol metaproterenol terbutaline fenoterol salmeterol formoterol and the like and the anti asthmatic drugs theophylline choline theophyllinate and enprofylline the calcium antagonists nifedipine diltiazem nitrendipine verapamil nimodipine felodipine etc. and the corticosteroids hydrocortisone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beclomethasone and the like.

Particularly for the prophylaxis and treatment of asthma compounds of this invention can be used in combination with orally inhaled corticosteroids such as beclomethasone e.g. QVAR Inhalation Aerosol budesonide e.g. Pulmicort Respules flunisolide e.g. AEROBID and AEROBID M Inhaler System fluticasone e.g. FLOVENT DISKUS inhalation powder FLOVENT HFA Inhalation Aerosol mometasone e.g. ASMANEX TWISTHALER and triamcinolone e.g. AZMACORT Inhalation Aerosol and also with inhaled corticosteroid LABA products such as fluticasone propionate salmeterol e.g. ADVAIR DISKUS . The instant compounds could also be used in combination with leukotriene receptor antagonists such as montelukast e.g. SINGULAIR zafirlukast ACCOLATE and pranlukast phosphodiesterase 4 PDE4 inhibitors such as roflumilast N Cyclopropyl 1 3 1 oxido 3 pyridinylethynyl phenyl 1 4 dihydro 1 8 naphthyridin 4 one 3 carboxamide and the compounds disclosed in PCT Publication WO2003 018579 and Very Late Antigen 4 VLA4 inhibitors such as the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 011 particularly R411 N 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine 2 diethylamino ethyl ester which is an ester pro drug of the active moiety N 2 chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine and the compounds disclosed in PCT publication WO2006 023396.

Furthermore additional active agents such as anti atherosclerotic agents anti diabetes agents anti obesity agents and agents used for the treatment of metabolic syndrome may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid altering compounds such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid altering effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors useful for this purpose include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof LESCOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 . Additional active agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to HMG CoA synthase inhibitors cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as ezetimibe ZETIA which is 1 4 fluorophenyl 3 R 3 S 4 fluorophenyl 3 hydroxypropyl 4 S 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 azetidinone described in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 37721 and 5 846 966 as well as a fixed dose combination of ezetimibe and simvastatin VYTORIN HDL raising agents such as cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example JTT 705 Japan Tobacco Company and torcetrapib Pfizer squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors probucol niacin bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example troglitazone pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists such as muraglitazar vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B12 also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan and losartan with hydrochlorothiazide angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABC1 gene expression FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium and cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib etoricoxib and celecoxib. Anti obesity agents can be employed in combination with a compound of this invention including but not limited to sibutramine orlistat topiramate naltrexone bupriopion phentermine and phentermine topiramate combination QNEXA NPY5 antagonists Acetyl CoA Carboxylase 1 and 2 ACC inhibitors MCH1R antagonists and CB1 antagonists inverse agonists such as those described in WO03 077847 and WO05 000809. Additional anti diabetes agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to DPP 4 dipeptidylpeptidase 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin JANUVIA and vildagliptin GALVUS sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide tolazamide glyburide glipizide and glimepiride biguanides e.g. metformin alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose and miglitol meglitinides e.g. repaglinide glucagon receptor agonists and glucokinase activators.

Compounds of this invention can be tested using the following assays to determine their mammalian leukotriene biosynthesis inhibiting activity. Representative tested compounds of this invention were shown to be inhibitors of leukotriene biosynthesis with most having an ICless than or equal to 4 M in the Human 5 Lipoxygenase Enzyme Assay described below with preferred compounds tested in this assay having an ICless than or equal to 0.100 M. To illustrate IC in nM of several exemplified compounds are provided Example 1 38 Example 2 50 Example 3 1215 Example 5 45 Example 8 50 Example 12 324 Example 16 442 Example 22 951 Example 26 98 Example 27 298 Example 30 37 Example 37 351 Example 39 34 Example 40 54 Example 41 51 Example 43 275 Example 46 103 Example 47 62 Example 48 82 Example 57 86 Example 58 52 Example 69 35 Example 71 55 Example 87 17 Example 88 41. The representative tested compounds were also shown to have activity as 5 LO inhibitors in the 5 Lipoxygenase Human Whole Blood Assay described below with most having an ICless than or equal to 5 M and preferred compounds having an ICof less than or equal to 0.500 M.

The activity of 5 lipoxygenase was measured using a spectrophotometric assay and recombinant human 5 lipoxygenase as a source of enzyme. Human 5 lipoxygenase was purified from Sf9 cells infected with the recombinant baculovirus rvH5LO 8 1 containing the coding sequence for human 5 lipoxygenase as described by Percival et al. Eur. J. Biochem 210 109 117 1992 . The enzymatic activity was measured using a spectrophotometric assay from the optimal rate of conjugated diene formation absorbance at 238 nm using the procedure described in Riendeau et al. Biochem. Pharmacol. 38 2313 2321 1989 with minor modifications. The incubation mixture contained 25 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.5 0.1 mM EDTA 0.3 mM CaCl 24 g ml phosphatidylcholine 0.1 mM ATP 0.5 mM DTT 20 M arachidonic acid 2 l from a 100 fold solution in ethanol inhibitor 2 l aliquot from a 100 fold solution in DMSO and an aliquot of purified 5 lipoxygenase. Reactions were initiated by the addition of the purified 5 lipoxygenase and the rate of conjugated diene production was followed for 5 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was performed in a Costar UV plate Cat. 3635 and the absorbance changes at 238 nm were recorded with a Molecular Devices UV VIS 96 well spectrophotometer Spectra Max 190 using SOFTmax PRO software. Enzymatic activity was calculated from the optimal rate of the reaction by a linear fit of the increase in absorbance at 238 nm over 36 seconds. When the rate of diene formation is low 

Fresh blood is collected in heparinized tubes by venipuncture from volunteers with consent. The subjects have no apparent inflammatory conditions and have not taken any nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs for at least 4 days prior to blood collection. 250 l aliquots of blood are pre incubated with either 0.5 l of vehicle DMSO or test compound at 37 C. for 15 minutes. This is followed by incubation of the blood with 5 l of either plasma or a 1.25 mM solution of the calcium ionophore A23187 Sigma St Louis Mo. USA in plasma. The latter solution is prepared by centrifuging approximately 10 mls of blood from each donor and collecting the plasma. A 50 mM stock solution of A23187 in DMSO is diluted 40 fold in plasma to yield a 1.25 mM working solution. Five ls of this working solution is added to each appropriate 250 l aliquot of blood of the same donor from which the plasma was prepared to give a final concentration of 25 M of A23187. The blood is then incubated at 37 C. for 30 minutes. Following incubation the blood is centrifuged at 1500 g at 4 C. for 10 minutes. Plasma is then collected from all samples and stored at 4 C. until time of enzyme immunosorbent assay EIA . All samples are tested for the production of leukotriene B4 LTB4 using the LTB4 EIA kit from Assay Designs Ann Arbor Mich. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Compounds of this invention may be prepared employing general synthetic procedures known in the art. The synthetic routes outlined in the following methods reaction schemes and Examples are provided for illustrative purposes.

Some abbreviations used herein include Ac acyl AIBN 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile BuLi butyllithium Bz or bz benzyl CAN cerium ammonium nitrate CDI 1 1 carbonyl diimidazole cy cyclohexyl DAST diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DBU 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DCC 1 3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCM dichloromethane DIAD diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIBAL diisobutylaluminum hydride DIPEA N N diisopropylethylamine DMAP 4 dimethylamino pyridine DME ethylene glycol dimethyl ether DMF N N dimethylformamide DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide eq equivalent EtOH ethanol EtO diethyl ether EtN triethylamine EtOAc ethyl acetate h hours H NMR is proton nuclear magnetic resonance HOAc acetic acid HPLC high performance liquid chromatography KHMDS potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide LAH lithium aluminum hydride LDA lithium diisopropylamide m CPBA or MCPBA 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid MS mass spectrum MS APCI mass spectrum Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization MsCl methanesulphonyl chloride MeOH methanol MTBE methyl t butyl ether NBS N bromosuccinimide NCS N chlorosuccinimide NMO 4 methylmorpholine N oxide NMP 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone OTf trifluoromethanesulfonate triflate O THP O tetrahydropyran 2 yl Ph phenyl PPTS pyridinium p toluenesulfonate Py pyridine rt room temperature TBAF tetrabutylammonium fluoride TfO triflic anhydride also known as trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride TFA trifluoro acetic acid TFAA trifluoracetic anhydride THF tetrahydrofuran TMS trimethylsilyl TMSCN trimethylsilyl cyanide.

7 Bromo 4 trifluoromethanesulfonyloxycoumarin 4 can be prepared as shown below in Scheme 1. Description of how to make 4 is also found in the procedures described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 in Scheme 1 at columns 17 18 see structure V therein and in the section titled Preparation Of Coumarins starting at column 58 therein. Bromophenol 1 can be acetylated by treating a mixture of 1 and acetyl chloride in the presence of a base such as pyridine in a solvent such as dichloromethane to yield the corresponding acetate which upon heating neat with a Lewis acid such as aluminum chloride gives the acyl derivative 2. Reaction of 2 with first an inorganic base such as sodium hydride in an organic solvent such as benzene followed by addition of a carbonate such as diethylcarbonate furnishes the intermediate 3. The intermediate 3 is then transformed using trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride in the presence of an amine such as triethylamine in a neutral solvent such as dichloromethane to the corresponding bromocoumarin triflate 4.

The starting material shown in Coumarin Scheme A can be prepared from the meta cresol 6 which is converted in several steps to 8 using the same protocol as described in Scheme 1 for the conversion of 1 to 5.

Description of how to make 4 5 7 and 8 is also found in the procedures described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 in Schemes 1 and 2 therein see columns 12 13 17 19 and in the section titled Preparation Of Coumarins starting at column 58 therein.

The starting coumarin derivatives are prepared according to literature procedures U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 WO 2006 099735 . The methyl group is brominated with NBS and heating in an inert solvent such as CClin the presence of a radical initiator such as benzoyl peroxide AIBN or light. The bromide is converted to the azide with sodium azide in ethanol and reacted with an alkyne in the presence of copper I iodide and H nig s base in THF to furnish the corresponding triazole derivative. Hydrolysis of the ester can be accomplished with lithium hydroxide in THF. The alkyne derivatives are prepared by reacting the lithio derivative of TMS protected acetylene with ketones at low temperature in THF. Treatment with tetrabutylammonnium fluoride in THF liberates the unprotected alkyne. Alternatively the tertiary alcohol of the primary adduct with trifluoromethylethylketone can be protected with p nitrobenzoyl chloride in DMF and this adduct can be separated into its enantiomers by chiral HPLC methods.

The bromocoumarin triflate can be reacted with boronic acids in the presence of a palladium catalyst under Suzuki coupling conditions to give the 4 substituted coumarin derivative. Carbonylation under carbon monoxide atmosphere with a palladium catalyst and methanol DMF as solvent gives rise to the methylester. Reduction of the ester to the alcohol can be accomplished via saponifaction of the ester with LiOH in THF and subsequent reaction with isobutylchloroformate IBCF triethylamine in THF followed by treatment with NaBH. The alcohol is converted to the azide with PPh an activating agent such as diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIAD and zinc azide. The azide derivative can be reacted with an alkyne in the presence of copper I iodide and H nig s base in THF to furnish the corresponding triazole derivative.

The cresol derivative can be ortho metalated with a strong base such as t BuLi and reacted with a carbonyl compound to give the corresponding ketone. After deprotection of the phenol cyclization to the coumarin can be accomplished with a Wittig reagent in toluene. This is followed by bromination azide displacement and triazole formation as described above. Treatment of the ester with LiOH in THF gives the corresponding tertiary alcohol.

The triflate U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 can be reacted with tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin and a catalyst such as Pd PPh under Stille coupling conditions to give the vinyl ether. Bromination can be achieved with a bromide source such as NBS. This bromoketone can be converted to an oxazole by treatment with acetamide in DMF at elevated temperature. This is followed by bromination azide displacement and triazole formation as described above. Treatment of the ester with LiOH in THF gives the corresponding tertiary alcohol.

The bromocoumarin triflate U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 can be reacted with tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin and a catalyst such as Pd PPh under Stille coupling conditions to give the vinyl ether. Bromination can be achieved with a bromide source such as NBS. This bromoketone can be converted to a thiazole by treatment with thioacetamide in DMF at elevated temperature. This is followed by a one carbon homologation to the methyl ester reduction of the ester to an alcohol azide formation and triazole formation as described above. Treatment of the ester with LiOH in THF gives the corresponding tertiary alcohol.

To a solution of trimethylsilylacetylene 6.0 g 61.1 mmol in THF 80 mL cooled at 78 C. a 1.6M n butyllithium in hexanes 38 mL 61.1 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was then stirred 1 hour before a solution trifluoromethylethylketone 10 g 79.4 mmol in 25 mL of THF was added slowly. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 4 hours. The reaction was then poured into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and the aqueous layer was extracted 4 with diethyl ether. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 5.83 s 1H 1.80 q 2H 1.14 t 3H 0.18 s 9H .

To a stirred solution of 3 trifluoromethyl 1 trimethylsilyl pent 1 yn 3 ol 10.5 g 46.9 mmol in DMF 140 mL sodium hydride 60 in oil 1.9 g 46.9 mmol was added portionwise. After 25 min stirring a solution of 4 nitrobenzoyl chloride 8.7 g 46.9 mmol in 50 mL DMF was added slowly. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with pH 7 buffer 25 NHOAc aq solution 500 mL and the product was extracted with diethyl ether 4 washed with water 3 and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography Ethyl acetate hexanes 15 85 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 d 2H 8.27 d 2H 3.69 s 1H 2.60 2.40 m 2H 1.16 t 3H .

The racemic material obtained was resolved by chiral HPLC OD Chiralcel 2.5 50 cm column solvent system 2 i PrOH Hexanes flow rate 40 mL min 280 nm detection .

First enantiomer retention time 10.06 min. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 d 2H 8.27 d 2H 3.69 s 1H 2.60 2.40 m 2H 1.16 t 3H .

Second enantiomer retention time 15.1 min. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 d 2H 8.27 d 2H 3.69 s 1H 2.60 2.40 m 2H 1.16 t 3H .

To a mechanically stirred suspension of sodium hydride 60 in oil 30 g 749 mmol in toluene 400 mL heated at 80 C. a solution of the commercially available 2 hydroxy 4 methylacetophenone 50 g 0.333 mmol in 150 mL of toluene was added dropwise over 1 h. After complete addition the mixture was stirred 15 min and a solution of diethyl carbonate 81 mL 666 mmol in toluene 500 mL was added dropwise over 1 h. The reaction mixture was then stirred overnight at reflux. After cooling the reaction mixture was poured into 800 mL of 2N HCl. The precipitate formed was collected by filtration co evaporated twice with toluene and dried under high vacuum at 55 C. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 11.1 bs 1H 7.76 d 1H 7.18 d 1H 7.14 s 1H 5.60 s 1H 2.47 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 hydroxy 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 32.5 g 184 mmol and triethylamine 44 ml 313 mmol in dichloromethane 750 mL cooled at 30 C. a solution of triflic anhydride 49.7 mL 294 mmol in 200 mL of dichloromethane was added dropwise internal temperature was kept below 30 C. during addition . The reaction was stirred 1 h at 30 C. and then slowly warmed to 0 C. The reaction was quenched with an aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution. The isolated aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was filtered trough a short column of silica gel eluting with dichloromethane to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.68 d 1H 7.38 d 1H 7.32 s 1H 6.60 s 1H 2.52 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 methyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 4 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate 5 g 16.2 mmol and 3 fluorobenzeneboronic acid 2.5 g 17.9 mmol in THF 75 mL tricyclohexylphosphine 227 mg 0.81 mmol and potassium fluoride 3.3 g 56.8 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was purged twice with nitrogen before palladium II acetate 146 mg 0.65 mmol was added. After 16 hours stirring at room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered over celite and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography CHCl Hexanes 70 30 . To afford the title compound H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.7 7.6 m 1H 7.45 7.3 m 4H 7.26 s 1H 7.18 d 1H 6.3 s 1H 2.47 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 3 fluorophenyl 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 1.25 g 4.9 mmol in carbontetrachloride 30 mL N bromosuccinimide 963 mg 5.41 mmol and benzoylperoxide 60 mg 0.25 mmol were added. The reaction was then stirred overnight at reflux. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified on a short column of silica gel eluting with CHCl . The filtrate was concentrated and the solid obtained was swished in a mixture of CHCl hexanes. The title product was collected by filtration. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.72 7.6 m 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.47 s 1H 7.45 7.3 m 4H 6.4 s 1H 4.78 s 2H .

To a solution of 7 bromomethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one 1.16 g 3.5 mmol in ethanol 35 mL sodium azide 248 mg 3.8 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was then stirred overnight at reflux. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude residue was dissolved with CHCl. Salts were removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the tittle compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.72 7.6 m 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.47 7.32 m 5H 6.42 s 1H 4.67 s 2H .

Step 8 S 1 1 4 3 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

To a solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one 30 mg 0.1 mmol and 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate S isomer the second slower eluting enantiomer from step 2 27 mg 0.1 mmol in THF 5 mL N N diisopropylethylamine 79 uL 0.45 mmol and copper iodide 26 mg 0.14 mmol were added. After overnight stirring the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate filtered and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl5 95 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.5 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.31 d 2H 7.7 7.6 m 1H 7.51 d 1H 7.4 7.25 m 5H 6.42 s 1H 5.89 s 2H 3.1 2.98 m 1H 2.91 2.8 m 1H 1.14 t 3H .

Step 9 S 4 3 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one

To a solution of S 1 1 4 3 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 15 mg 0.025 mmol in THF 2 mL lithium hydroxide 0.125 mL of 1M solution 0.125 mmol was added. After 45 minutes stirring at room temperature the reaction was quenched by the addition of 0.150 mL of a 2N HCl solution. The mixture was stirred 3 h at room temp and then heated 2 h at 40 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.21 s 1H 7.7 7.6 m 1H 7.53 d 1H 7.42 7.3 m 5H 6.41 s 1H 5.87 s 2H 5.48 s 1H 2.4 2.3 m 1H 2.1 2.0 m 1H 0.87 t 3H .

The reaction was quenched by careful addition of water 9.0 mL . To the reaction mixture was added Solka Floc 0.25 g 8 wt and the mixture was stirred 20 min. The biphasic mixture was filtered over Solka Floc then transferred to a separatory funnel where the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with saturated solution of NaHCO 2 15.0 mL and with brine 15.0 mL to provide 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl 3 trimethylsilylprop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate TMS acetylene ester .

The racemic material obtained was resolved by chiral HPLC 11 25 cm DAC column packed with Chiralpak OD . The feed was about 29 mg mL in v v 13 87 isopropyl alcohol heptane and the injection volume ranged from 1.0 to 1.2 liters with elution performed using 15 v v isopropyl alcohol heptane at a flow rate of 800 mL min. UV detection at 295 nm. The second eluting enantiomer S isomer was used in the later step.

Three polymorphic forms Forms A B and C as well as amorphous form of the compound of Example 1 have been identified. shows the X ray powder diffraction pattern XRPD for Form A having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 4.55 4.79 6.46 6.79 13.57 . shows the XRPD pattern for Form B having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 2.53 3.55 4.03 7.60 11.97 . shows the XRPD pattern for Form C having characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 2.57 3.21 4.05 6.44 12.88 . shows the XRPD pattern for the amorphous form having broad amorphous peak centered around 3.4 .

XRPD patterns were measured using a Scintag XDS 2000 Si Li Peltier cooled solid state detector CuK source using a generator power of 45 kV and current of 40 mA. A divergent beam of 2 mm and 4 mm and receiving beam slits of 0.5 mm and 0.2 mm were used. Scan range was set from 2 40 2 in step mode using a step size of 0.020 and a 2 second count time per step. The sample was measured on a quartz disk. Peak positions were verified using a standard corundum plate NIST SRM 1976 .

Differential scanning calorimeter DSC data were acquired using TA Instruments DSC Q1000 or equivalent instrumentation. Between 1 and 6 mg sample is weighed into an open pan. This pan is then crimped and placed at the sample position in the calorimeter cell. An empty pan is placed at the reference position. The calorimeter cell is closed and a flow of nitrogen is passed through the cell. The heating program is set to heat the sample at a heating rate of 10 C. min to a temperature of approximately 200 C. The heating program is started. When the run is completed the data are analyzed using the DSC analysis program contained in the system software. The melting endotherm is integrated between baseline temperature points that are above and below the temperature range over which the endotherm is observed. The data reported are the onset temperature peak temperature and enthalpy. The glass transition temperature Tg was integrated above and below the temperature range which baseline shifted is observed on reversible heat flow curve. The data reported is the midpoint temperature.

A glass transition temperature of 52.3 C. midpoint with an associated heat capacity change of 0.46 J gC.

Using the procedures given in example 1 the following Examples 2 11 were prepared using the appropriate boronic acid. Examples 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 were prepared with enantiopure 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate second eluting enantiomer described in Example 1 Step 2 . Examples 2A 5A 9 10 and 11 were prepared with racemic 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate. Any of the compounds herein could be prepared with racemic or enantiopure 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate.

4 4 Fluoro phenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl chromen 2 one was prepared using the same procedure as for Example 2 but using racemic 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate instead of enantiopure material.

7 4 1 Hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenyl chromen 2 one was prepared using the same procedure as for Example 5 but using racemic 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate instead of enantiopure material.

To a solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one 343 mg 0.78 mmol and 3 ethyl 1 pentyn 3 ol 80 mg 0.71 mmol in THF 7 mL N N diisopropylethylamine 622 uL 3.6 mmol and copper iodide 204 mg 1.07 mmol were added. After overnight stirring the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate filtered and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl10 90 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.89 s 1H 7.7 7.6 m 1H 7.53 d 1H 7.45 7.32 m 4H 7.27 d 1H 6.42 s 1H 5.79 s 2H 3.78 s 1H 2.0 1.74 m 4H 0.78 t 6H .

Using the procedures given in examples 1 and 12 above the following additional examples 13 18 were prepared using the appropriate boronic acid and ethynyl derivative.

To a solution of trimethylsilylacetylene 5 mL 35.4 mmol in THF 100 mL cooled at 78 C. a 1.6M n butyllithium in hexanes 22.1 mL 35.4 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred for 30 min before tetrahydro 4H pyran 4 one 3.47 mL 37.2 mmol was added. The temperature was slowly raised to room temperature and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction was quenched with a saturated ammonium chloride solution and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.60 s 1H 3.85 3.75 m 2H 3.61 3.51 m 2H 1.98 1.87 m 2H 1.74 1.66 m 2H 0.16 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 trimethylsilyl ethynyltetrahydropyran 4 ol 1.0 g 5.04 mmol in THF SnL a 1 M solution of tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride in THF 5.29 mL 5.29 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred 2 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into an aqueous 5 NHOAc solution and diluted with ethyl acetate. The isolated organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.61 s 1H 3.87 3.77 m 2H 3.60 3.50 m 2H 2.98 s 1H 1.89 1.81 m 2H 1.77 1.65 m 2H .

To a cooled solution 0 C. of 4 trimethylsilyl ethynyltetrahydropyran 4 ol prepared as described in the above example 2.5 g 12.6 mmol in a THF DMF mixture 55 mL 10 1 sodium hydride 60 suspension in oil 0.504 g 12.6 mmol was added portionwise. After addition the mixture was stirred 15 minutes before iodomethane 0.788 mL 12.6 mmol was added. The temperature was slowly raised to room temperature and the reaction was stirred for another 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched with water and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 . The combined organic layers were diluted with hexanes and washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone dichloromethane 2 98 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 3.82 3.74 m 2H 3.61 3.54 m 2H 3.34 s 3H 1.90 1.82 m 2H 1.71 1.63 m 2H 0.21 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 methoxy 4 tetrahydropyranyl ethynyl trimethyl silane 2.25 g 10.6 mmol in THF 20 mL a 1 M solution of tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride in THF 11.12 mL 11.12 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into an aqueous 5 NHOAc solution and diluted with ethyl acetate. The isolated organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 3.85 3.75 m 2H 3.62 3.52 m 2H 3.35 s 3H 3.14 s 1H 1.93 1.86 m 2H 1.75 1.65 m 2H .

Using the general procedures described in Example 1 the following Examples 21 23 were prepared using 7 azidomethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one and the appropriate ethynyl starting material i.e. TMS C C Ph TMS C C benzyl or TMS C C 2 pyridyl .

To a solution of 4 4 fluoro phenyl 7 4 pyridin 2 yl 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl chromen 2 one in a mixture of dichloromethane methanol 9 1 2 mL magnesium monoperoxyphthalate hexahydrate was added 62 mg 1.2 eq . The reaction mixture was then stirred overnight at room temperature. The crude reaction mixture was then diluted with water and the product was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.04 s 1H 8.54 d 1H 8.33 d 1H 7.50 7.40 m 3H 7.37 s 1H 7.30 7.20 m 3H 7.17 d 1H 6.39 s 1H 5.73 s 2H .

To a solution of trimethylsilylacetylene 5 mL 35.4 mmol in THF 100 mL cooled at 78 C. a 1.6M n butyllithium in hexanes 22.1 mL 35.4 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred for 30 min before dicyclopropyl ketone 4.06 mL 35.4 mmol was added. The temperature was then slowly raised to room temperature and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction was then poured into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and the aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.14 s 1H 1.22 1.10 m 2H 0.65 0.55 m 2H 0.50 0.30 m 6H 0.14 s 9H .

To a solution of 1 1 dicyclopropyl 3 trimethylsilyl prop 2 yn 1 ol 2.25 g 10.6 mmol in THF 100 mL a 1M solution of tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride in THF 37.2 mL 37.2 mmol was added. The reaction was then stirred 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then poured into an aqueous 5 NHOAc solution and diluted with ethyl acetate. The isolated organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography ethyl acetate hexanes 20 80 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.17 s 1H 2.75 s 1H 1.25 1.15 m 2H 0.65 0.55 m 2H 0.55 0.30 m 6H .

7 Azidomethyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one was prepared using the general procedure described in example 1 steps 3 7 but substituting 4 fluorobenzeneboronic acid in place of 3 fluorobenzeneboronic acid. The title compound was prepared using 1 1 dicyclopropylprop 2 yn 1 ol and 7 azidomethyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one using the general cycloaddition procedure described in example 12. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.95 s 1H 7.7 7.65 m 1H 7.52 d 1H 7.40 7.35 m 3H 7.30 d 1H 6.40 s 1H 5.80 s 2H 3.72 s 1H 1.45 1.35 m 2H 0.55 0.45 m 4H 0.45 0.35 m 2H 0.30 0.20 m 2H .

To ethyl trifluoromethyl ketone 5.00 g 40.0 mmol in THF 20 ml at room temperature was added 1 propynyl magnesium bromide 0.5 M in THF 60 mL 30.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stand at rt 1 h and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between EtO and aq. NHOAc the phases were separated and the organic phase washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated not to complete dryness to afford a 50 wt. solution estimated by H NMR of the title compound remainder THF and EtO which was used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 6.63 s 1H 1.87 s 3H 1.75 1.63 m 2H 1.04 t 3H .

Step 2 4 3 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 5 methyl 1H 1 23 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one

A solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one 458 mg 1.55 mmol and the alkyne from step 1 1.5 g 50 wt. in EtO THF 4.51 mmol in toluene 15 mL was degassed by two freeze pump and thaw cycles. The solution was heated to 140 C. overnight cooled and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography 30 60 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound. MS APCI 460 M H .

To a solution of trimethylsilyl acetylene 2.80 mL 20.2 mmol in EtO 25 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 2.5 M in hexane 8.10 mL 20.2 mmol while maintaining internal temperature below 70 C. After 30 min. a solution of 1 1 1 trifluoroacetone 3.62 mL 40.5 mmol in EtO 10 mL was added rapidly keeping the internal temperature below 45 C. After 2 h at 78 C. a saturated solution of NHCl was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtO and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated under vacuum at 25 C. affording the title compound a liquid containing EtO 7.25 g . The crude product was used as such in Step 2. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 5.92 br s 1H 1.59 s 3H 0.18 s 9H .

A solution of crude 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methyl 4 trimethylsilyl but 3 yn 2 ol from Step 1 20.2 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of NaH 60 disp. 850 mg 21.2 mmol in DMF 25 mL at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to reach room temperature stirred for 30 min. and recooled to 0 C. A solution of 4 nitrobenzoyl chloride 3.94 g 21.2 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added dropwise and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 30 min. the mixture was poured in 1 1 25 NHOAc HO and extracted with EtO 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 3 and brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to chromatography on silica gel toluene hexane 40 60 to 60 40 affording the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.44 d 2H 8.28 d 2H 3.65 s 1H 2.09 s 3H .

Step 3 2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 1 4 3 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 methylethyl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was obtained following the general cycloaddition procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.51 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.27 d 2H 7.66 m 1H 7.52 d 1H 7.36 7.42 m 4H 7.30 dd 1H 6.43 s 1H 5.87 s 2H 2.33 s 3H .

Step 4 4 3 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl ethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was obtained following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . MS APCI 434 M H .

To a solution of triisopropylsilyl acetylene 6.50 mL 29.0 mmol in THF 80 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 2.5 M in hexane 12.2 mL 30.4 mmol while maintaining the internal temperature below 70 C. After 30 min. ethyl trifluoroacetate 4.14 mL 34.8 mmol was added dropwise keeping the internal temperature below 73 C. After 15 min. at 78 C. the mixture was allowed to reach 0 C. After 2 h a saturated solution of NHCl was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated affording the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 1.27 m 3H 1.16 d 18H .

To a solution of 1 1 1 trifluoro 4 triisopropylsilyl but 3 yn 2 one 2.01 g 7.22 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at 0 C. was added a THF solution of cyclopropylmagnesium bromide 0.5 M 21.7 mL 10.8 mmol . After 1.5 h a saturated solution of NHCl was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with HO and brine dried NaSO and concentrated under vacuum at 30 C. affording the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 5.97 s 1H 1.36 m 1H 1.10 m 21H 0.74 m 1H 0.65 m 2H 0.60 m 1H .

To a 0 C. solution of crude 2 cyclopropyl 1 1 1 trifluoro 4 triisopropylsilyl but 3 yn 2 ol from Step 2 8.14 mmol in DMF 15 mL was added NaH 60 disp. 342 mg 8.55 mmol portionwise. The mixture was allowed to reach room temperature and stirred for 40 min. A solution of 4 nitrobenzoyl chloride 1.59 g 8.55 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added dropwise while maintaining internal temperature below 32 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 2 h the mixture was poured in 1 1 25 NHOAc HO and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 3 and brine dried NaSO and concentrated affording the title compound contaminated with a trace of desilylated material. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.44 d 2H 8.29 d 2H 1.52 m 1H 1.11 m 21H 0.75 0.97 m 4H .

To a solution of crude 1 cyclopropyl 1 trifluoromethyl 3 triisopropylsilyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate from Step 3 8.14 mmol in THF 30 mL at room temperature was added a THF solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 9.77 mL 9.77 mmol . After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was poured in HO and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO and brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to chromatography on silica gel toluene hexane 40 60 to 60 40 affording the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.44 d 2H 8.29 d 2H 3.64 s 1H 1.53 m 1H 1.26 m 1H 0.88 m 2H 0.78 m 1H .

Step 5 1 Cyclopropyl 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 4 3 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl ethyl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was obtained following the general cycloaddition procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 8.50 s 1H 8.43 d 2H 8.28 d 2H 7.66 m 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.36 7.43 m 4H 7.30 dd 1H 6.44 s 1H 5.88 s 2H 1.95 m 1H 1.08 m 1H 0.98 m 1H 0.89 m 1H 0.82 m 1H .

Step 6 7 4 1 Cyclopropyl 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 hydroxyethyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl methyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was obtained following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . MS ESI 458 M H .

To a solution of 1 1 1 trifluoro 4 triisopropylsilyl but 3 yn 2 one 3.00 g 10.8 mmol in CHCl 80 mL at 0 C. was added a THF solution of allylmagnesium chloride 2.0 M 8.08 mL 16.2 mmol . After 1 h a saturated solution of NHCl was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with HO and brine dried NaSO and concentrated under vacuum at 30 C. affording the title compound 3.63 g . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 6.02 m 2H 5.20 5.27 m 2H 2.62 m 2H 1.10 m 21H .

To a 0 C. solution of crude 3 trifluoromethyl 1 triisopropylsilyl hex 5 en 1 yn 3 ol from Step 1 242 mg 0.755 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added NaH 60 disp. 32 mg 0.793 mmol in two portions. The mixture was allowed to reach room temperature and stirred for 40 min. A solution of 4 nitrobenzoyl chloride 147 mg 0.793 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added dropwise. After 1.5 h the mixture was poured in HO and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 3 and brine dried NaSO and concentrated affording the title compound 342 mg .

To a solution of crude 1 trifluoromethyl 1 triisopropylsilyl ethynyl but 3 en 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate from Step 2 0.755 mmol in THF 3 mL at room temperature was added a THF solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M 0.906 mL 0.906 mmol . After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was poured in HO and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO and brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to chromatography on silica gel toluene hexane 40 60 to 60 40 affording the title compound 60 mg . H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 8.44 d 2H 8.29 d 2H 5.94 m 1H 5.29 d 1H 5.21 d 1H 3.74 s 1H 3.27 m 2H .

Step 4 1 1 4 3 Fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl but 3 en 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was obtained following the general cycloaddition procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.53 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.27 d 2H 7.66 m 1H 7.53 d 1H 7.36 7.43 m 4H 7.30 dd 1H 6.44 s 1H 6.00 m 1H 5.88 s 2H 5.24 d 1H 5.15 d 1H 3.81 dd 1H 3.55 dd 1H .

Step 5 4 3 Fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl but 3 en 1 yl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was obtained following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 8.22 s 1H 7.66 m 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.36 7.44 m 4H 7.30 dd 1H 6.44 s 1H 5.86 s 2H 5.70 m 1H 5.63 s 1H 5.14 d 1H 5.05 d 1H 3.10 dd 1H 2.86 dd 1H .

Step 6 4 3 Fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl butyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one

A solution of 4 3 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl but 3 en 1 yl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 2H chromen 2 one from Step 5 56 mg 0.122 mmol in EtOAc 2 mL was stirred under H 1 atm in the presence of 10 Pd C 12 mg for 17 h. After Hwas evacuated and the system purged with nitrogen the reaction mixture was filtered through celite. The cake was rinsed with EtOAc and the filtrate concentrated. The residue was subjected to chromatography on silica gel EtOAc toluene 25 75 affording the title compound 50 mg . MS ESI 460 M H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 2 oxo 2H chromen 4 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 1.1 g 3.0 mmol and 3 methylbenzeneboronic acid 450 mg 3.3 mmol in THF 12 mL tricyclohexylphosphine 30 mg 0.1 mmol and potassium fluoride 574 mg 9.9 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was purged twice with nitrogen before palladium II acetate 20 mg 0.1 mmol was added. After 16 hours stirring at room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered over celite and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography CHCl hexanes 70 30 . To afford the title compound H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.67 s 1H 7.53 7.33 m 6H 6.40 s 1H 2.46 s 3H .

A solution of 7 bromo 4 3 methylphenyl 2H chromen 2 one 740 mg 2.34 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complexed with CHCl 383 mg 0.47 mmol and triethylamine 650 uL 4.7 mmol in a mixture of methanol 7.5 mL and dimethylsulfoxide 14 mL was flushed with carbon monoxide twice at 0 C. The mixture was then heated at 65 C. under a carbon monoxide atmosphere and vigorously stirred overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was poured into a saturated ammonium chloride solution. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 and the combined organic extracts were washed with water 3 brine and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude oil obtained was purified by column chromatography ethyl acetate hexanes 20 80 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.95 s 1H 7.91 d 1H 7.67 d 1H 7.50 t 1H 7.46 7.34 m 3H 6.47 s 1H 3.96 s 3H 2.47 s 3H .

To a solution of methyl 4 3 methylphenyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylate 610 mg 2.1 mmol in THF 21 mL a solution of lithium hydroxide 10.3 mL 10.3 mmol was added. The solution was then heated at 65 C. for 2 hours. After cooling volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue obtained was diluted with THF 20 mL and 2N HCl 40 mL . After 1 h stirring the solid formed was collected by filtration to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.5 bs 1H 7.90 d 1H 7.87 dd 1H 7.59 d 1H 7.48 t 1H 7.43 7.33 m 3H 6.55 s 1H 2.41 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 3 methylphenyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylic acid 520 mg 1.86 mmol and triethylamine 1.0 mL 7.4 mmol in THF 15 mL cooled at 0 C. isobutylchloroformate 726 uL 5.6 mmol was added dropwise. After 1 hour stirring at 0 C. a solution of sodium borohydride in water 353 mg 9.3 mmol in 6 mL was added slowly and the mixture was stirred for another hour. The reaction mixture was poured into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and the product was extracted 3 with ethyl acetate the combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography ethyl acetate hexanes 50 50 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.51 7.39 m 5H 7.37 d 1H 7.32 d 1H 6.29 s 1H 4.79 d 2H 4.57 t 1H 2.46 s 3H .

To a suspension of 7 hydroxymethyl 4 3 methylphenyl 2H chromen 2 one 757 mg 2.6 mmol in toluene 12 mL was added triphenylphosphine 922 mg 3.5 mmol and Zn N .2 pyridine prepared as described in Synthesis 1990 p. 130 132 406 mg 1.3 mmol . After 10 minutes of stirring N N diisopropyl azodicarboxylate 692 uL 3.5 mmol was added dropwise. After 3 hours of stirring the solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography ethyl acetate toluene 15 85 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.58 d 1H 7.52 7.46 m 2H 7.44 6.33 m 4H 6.34 s 1H 4.64 s 2H 2.48 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 3 methylphenyl 2H chromen 2 one 100 mg 0.34 mmol and 3 ethyl 1 pentyn 3 ol 46 mg 0.41 mmol in THF 4 mL N N diisopropylethylamine 296 uL 1.7 mmol and copper iodide 97 mg 0.51 mmol were added. After overnight stirring the reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate filtered and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl20 80 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.90 s 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.47 t 1H 7.43 7.33 m 4H 7.25 d 1H 6.33 s 1H 5.78 s 2H 3.70 s 1H 2.45 s 3H 1.95 1.75 m 4H 0.79 t 6H .

To a solution of commercially available 7 hydroxy 4 pyridine 3 yl coumarin 5 g 20.9 mmol and triethylamine 3.8 mL 27 mmol in dichloromethane 75 mL cooled at 30 C. a solution of triflic anhydride in CHCl 4.24 mL 25 mmol in 25 mL was added dropwise internal temperature kept below 30 C. during addition . After addition the mixture was stirred 1 hour at 30 C. and then slowly warmed to 0 C. The reaction was poured into a saturated solution of ammonium chloride and the aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.90 8.80 m 2H 8.11 d 1H 7.75 7.65 m 3H 7.47 d 1H 6.61 s 1H .

To a mixture of 2 oxo 4 pyridin 3 yl 2H chromen 7 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate 6.4 g 17.24 mmol in DMSO 100 mL stirred at room temperature triethylamine 4.85 mL 34.5 mmol was added. The reaction was then purged twice with carbon monoxide and palladium dichloride dppf dichloromethane 2.82 g 3.45 mmol was added. The mixture was purged once again with carbon monoxide and the reaction was stirred overnight at 65 C. under carbon monoxide atmosphere. After cooling the reaction was quenched by the addition of an aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution. The aqueous layer was extracted 3 with ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl 10 90 . MS ESI 282.2 M H .

The title compound was prepared from methyl 2 oxo 4 3 pyridinyl 2H chromene 7 carboxylate using the procedures described in the example 31 starting from step 3. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.78 s 2H 8.04 d 1H 7.90 s 1H 7.64 7.36 m 1H 7.48 d 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.27 d 1H 6.47 s 1H 5.80 s 2H 3.80 s 1H 1.95 1.75 m 4H 0.77 t 6H .

To m cresol 19.4 mL 188 mmol in DMF 1 L was added NaH 60 disp. in oil 9.04 g 0.226 mmol in several portions. The mixture was stirred at rt for 30 min chloromethyl methyl ether 11.5 mL 151 mmol was added in one portion and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight partitioned between 1N aq. NaOH and EtO. The organic phase was washed with 1N aq. NaOH dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.18 t 1H 6.86 6.77 m 3H 5.18 s 2H 3.43 s 3H 2.29 s 3H .

To a solution of t BuLi 1.7 M in pentane 9.96 mL 16.9 mmol was added dropwise 1 methoxymethoxy 3 methylbenzene from step 1 2.34 g 15.4 mmol maintaining the internal temperature below 8 C. The suspension was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h cooled to 20 C. and THF 40 mL was added. The suspension was allowed to warm to 8 C. cooled to 78 C. and Weinreb amide see below was added 2.75 g 16.2 mmol . The cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. partitioned between EtO and HO and the organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography 10 20 EtOAc in hexanes to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.45 d 1H 7.08 s 1H 6.94 d 1H 6.51 s 1H 5.13 s 2H 3.33 s 3H 2.53 s 3H 2.38 s 3H .

To a solution of 2 methoxymethoxy 4 methylphenyl 5 methylisoxazol 3 yl methanone from step 2 1.49 g 5.70 mmol in isopropanol THF 1 1 50 mL was added conc. HCl 1 mL in one portion. The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1.2 h and extracted with EtO from NaHCO. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. MS APCI 218 M H .

A solution of 2 hydroxy 4 methylphenyl 5 methylisoxazol 3 yl methanone from step 3 0.93 g 4.28 mmol and methyl triphenylphosphoranylidene acetate 1.86 g 5.57 mmol in toluene 30 mL was heated to 90 C. for 2 h concentrated in vacuo and the residue washed with EtO and hot acetone to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.18 d 1H 7.27 7.19 m 2H 6.77 s 1H 6.67 s 1H 2.60 s 3H 2.52 s 3H .

A mixture of 7 methyl 4 5 methylisoxazol 3 yl 2H chromen 2 one from step 4 550 mg 2.28 mmol N bromosuccinimide 446 mg 2.51 mmol and benzoyl peroxide 28 mg 0.114 mmol in CCl 15 mL was heated to reflux for 7.5 h filtered hot and concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude bromide which was used without further purification. The crude bromide and NaN 180 mg 2.77 mmol in EtOH 15 mL and DMF 10 mL was heated to reflux 5 h cooled to room temperature taken up in EtO washed with HO 2 and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography 20 30 EtOAc in hexanes to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.37 d 1H 7.49 7.42 m 2H 6.80 s 1H 6.77 s 1H 4.68 s 2H 2.59 s 3H .

Step 6 S 1 1 4 5 methylisoxazol 3 yl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was obtained following the general cycloaddition procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.50 s 1H 8.43 d 2H 8.37 d 1H 8.41 d 2H 7.38 7.32 m 2H 6.79 s 1H 6.77 s 1H 5.88 s 2H 3.11 2.98 m 1H 2.90 2.78 m 1H 2.58 s 3H 1.14 t 3H .

Step 7 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 5 methylisoxazol 3 yl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was obtained following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . MS ESI 433 M H .

To a cooled 0 C. solution of t BuLi 1.7 M in pentane 5.0 mL 8.5 mmol 1 methoxymethoxy 3 methylbenzene see example 33 step 1 was added dropwise 1.18 g 7.73 mmol maintaining the internal temperature below 16 C. The suspension was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h cooled to 78 C. and THF 15 mL was added. A solution of 1 3 thiazole 2 carboxaldehyde 0.962 g 8.5 mmol was added and the cooling bath was removed. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 0 C. extracted twice with EtOAc from NHCl dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography 30 50 EtOAc in hexanes to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.77 d 1H 7.48 s 1H 7.33 d 1H 6.95 s 1H 6.83 d 1H 6.36 d 1H 5.32 d 1H 5.21 s 2H 3.38 s 3H 2.32 s 3H .

A mixture of 2 methoxymethoxy 4 methylphenyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl methanol from step 1 3.6 g 13.7 mmol and MnO 8.28 g 95.2 mmol in dichloromethane was stirred at room temperature overnight filtered and the insoluble material washed well with boiling EtOAc. The filtrates were combined and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.07 8.03 m 2H 7.50 d 1H 7.10 s 1H 6.95 d 1H 5.11 s 2H 3.34 s 3H 2.41 s 3H .

Prepared according to the general procedure for MOM ether deprotection example 33 step 3 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 12.25 s 1H 9.17 d 1H 8.23 s 1H 8.17 s 1H 6.90 6.85 m 2H 2.42 s 3H .

Prepared according to the general procedure for coumarin formation example 33 step 4 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.58 d 1H 8.18 d 1H 8.00 d 1H 7.27 7.23 m 2H 6.77 s 1H 2.47 s 3H .

Prepared according to the general procedure for azide formation example 33 step 5 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.78 d 1H 8.24 s 1H 8.03 s 1H 7.48 7.44 m 2H 6.84 s 1H 4.67 s 2H .

Step 6 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was prepared according to the general procedure for cycloaddition and deprotection example 1 steps 8 9 . The crude cycloaddition product was not purified but was deprotected directly. MS APCI 435 M H .

Prepared according to the general procedure for MOM ether ortho lithiation and alkylation example 33 steps 1 2 but using

Prepared according to the general procedure for MOM ether deprotection example 33 step 3 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 11.68 s 1H 8.12 d 1H 6.94 6.90 m 3H 4.05 s 3H 2.43 s 3H .

Prepared according to the general procedure for coumarin formation example 33 step 4 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.96 d 1H 7.30 7.26 m 2H 6.90 s 1H 6.73 s 1H 4.06 s 3H 2.50 s 3H .

Step 4 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 3 methoxyisoxazol 5 yl 2H chromen 2 one

Prepared according to the general procedure for azide formation cycloaddition and ester deprotection example 33 steps 5 6 without isolation of intermediates. MS APCI 449 M H .

To a solution of 5 isothiazole carboxylic acid 5 g 38.7 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL 4 dimethylamino pyridine 473 mg 3.87 mmol N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 4.53 g 46.4 mmol N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 8.17 g 42.6 mmol and triethylamine 13.63 L 97.0 mmol were added and the reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then successively washed with 1N HCl 1N NaOH and brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.59 s 1H 7.97 s 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.38 s 3H .

Step 2 S 7 4 1 Hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 isothiazol 5 yl chromen 2 one

The title compound was prepared according to the procedures in example 33 starting from 1 methoxymethoxy 3 methylbenzene and N methoxy N methylisothiazole 5 carboxamide. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.72 s 1H 8.23 s 1H 7.82 s 1H 7.78 d 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.35 d 1H 6.53 s 1H 5.88 s 2H 5.46 s 1H 2.40 2.30 m 1H 2.10 2.0 m 1H 0.85 t 3H .

To a solution of 7 methyl 2 oxo 2H chromen 4 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 2.5 g 8.1 mmol and tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 2.88 mL 8.5 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 25 mL lithium chloride 1.03 g 24.3 mmol was added. The reaction flask was then purged twice with nitrogen and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 468 mg 0.405 mmol was added. The reaction was then heated overnight at 100 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude residue obtained was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with a saturated ammonium chloride aq. solution water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexanes 25 75 to 40 60 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.76 d 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.19 d 1H 6.35 s 1H 4.64 d 1H 4.61 d 1H 4.04 q 2H 2.47 s 3H 1.40 t 3H .

To a solution of 4 1 ethoxyvinyl 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 1.56 g 6.77 mmol in THF water 27.5 mL 10 1 mixture N bromosuccinimide 1.33 g 7.45 mmol was added. The reaction was then stirred at room temperature. After 3 hours stirring toluene was added and the crude mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexanes 30 70 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.71 d 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.22 d 1H 6.94 s 1H 4.90 s 2H 2.50 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 bromoacetyl 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 750 mg 2.67 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 2.5 mL acetamide 158 mg 2.67 mmol was added. The reaction was then stirred overnight at 100 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was dissolved with ethyl acetate and washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was pre adsorbed on silica gel and purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexanes 30 70 to 80 20 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.52 s 1H 8.21 d 1H 7.23 s 1H 7.21 d 1H 6.52 s 1H 2.57 s 3H 2.49 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared following the general bromide preparation procedure example 33 step 5 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.65 s 1H 8.36 d 1H 7.52 7.44 m 2H 6.78 s 1H 4.78 s 2H 2.57 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared following the general azide preparation procedure example 33 step 5 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.66 s 1H 8.39 d 1H 7.50 7.40 m 2H 6.78 s 1H 4.66 s 2H 2.59 s 3H .

Step 6 S 1 1 4 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was prepared using 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1yl 4 nitrobenzoate see example 1 step 2 by following the general triazole formation procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.62 s 1H 8.48 s 1H 8.44 d 2H 8.35 8.25 m 3H 7.32 7.28 m 2H 6.74 s 1H 5.86 s 2H 3.10 3.0 m 1H 2.90 2.80 m 1H 2.55 s 3H 1.14 t 3H .

Step 7 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was prepared following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.64 s 1H 8.40 d 1H 8.22 s 1H 7.39 s 1H 7.34 d 1H 6.67 s 1H 5.87 s 2H 5.47 s 1H 2.57 s 3H 2.40 2.30 m 1H 2.10 2.0 m 1H 0.85 t 3H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 2 oxo 2H chromen 4 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 5 g 13.4 mmol and tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 4.75 mL 14.1 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 50 mL lithium chloride 1.7 g 40.2 mmol was added. The reaction flask was then purged twice with nitrogen and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 774 mg 0.7 mmol was added. The reaction was then heated 4 hours at 80 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude residue obtained was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with a saturated ammonium chloride aq. solution water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography hexanes CHCl acetone 25 75 0 to 0 95 5 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.83 d 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.52 d 1H 6.46 s 1H 4.67 s 2H 4.05 q 2H 1.38 t 3H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 2 oxo 2H chromen 4 yl trifluoromethanesulfonate 2.71 g 9.35 mmol in THF water 40 mL 10 1 mixture N bromosuccinimide 1.83 g 10.3 mmol was added. The reaction was then stirred at room temperature. After 5 hours stirring toluene was added and the crude mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexanes 25 75 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d7.80 d 1H 7.72 7.62 m 1H 7.60 d 1H 7.13 s 1H 4.92 s 2H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 bromoacetyl 2H chromen 2 one 1.45 g 4.19 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 12.5 mL thioacetamide 346 mg 4.6 mmol was added. The reaction was then stirred overnight at 100 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was dissolved with a 4 1 mixture of CHCl hexanes. The mixture obtained was washed 3 with water and the organic layer was concentrated under reduced pressure. The solid obtained was swished in a 4 1 mixture of hexanes EtOAc. The solid obtained was collected by filtration and used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.32 d 1H 8.14 s 1H 7.66 s 1H 7.54 d 1H 6.73 s 1H 2.74 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one 1.3 g 4.04 mmol in DMSO MeOH 45 mL 2 1 mixture triethylamine 1.14 mL 8.08 mmol was added. The reaction flask was purged twice with carbon monoxide and palladium II dichloride dppf CHCl 660 mg 0.81 mmol was added. The mixture was then heated at 65 C. overnight under a carbon monoxide atmosphere. After cooling the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water 3 and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl 5 95 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 d 1H 8.15 s 1H 7.92 d 1H 7.91 s 1H 6.81 s 1H 3.97 s 3H 2.84 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 methyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylate 840 mg 2.79 mmol in THF 40 mL a solution of lithium hydroxide 14 mL 14.0 mmol was added. The solution was then heated at 65 C. for 1.5 hours. After cooling THF was removed under reduced pressure and 2N HCl 8.6 mL 17.2 mmol was added. After 1 h stirring the solid formed was collected by filtration to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DSMO d 13.6 bs 1H 8.40 d 1H 8.32 s 1H 7.91 d 1H 7.89 s 1H 6.86 s 1H 2.82 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylic acid 250 mg 0.87 mmol in THF 10 mL triethylamine 0.31 mL 2.18 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred until it became a clear solution. The reaction was then cooled to 0 C. and isobutylchloroformate was added dropwise 230 uL 1.74 mmol . After 1 hour stirring at 0 C. a solution of sodium borohydride in water 132 mg 3.48 mmol in 3.5 mL was added slowly and the mixture was stirred for another hour. The reaction mixture was quenched with a saturated ammonium chloride solution and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue obtained was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.26 d 1H 8.07 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.35 d 1H 6.64 s 1H 4.80 d 2H 4.56 t 1H 2.85 s 3H .

To a suspension of 7 hydroxymethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one 155 mg 0.57 mmol in toluene 5 mL triphenylphosphine 297 mg 1.13 mmol and Zn N .2 pyridine prepared as described in Synthesis 1990 p. 130 132 131 mg 0.43 mmol were added. After 10 minutes stirring N N diisopropylazodicarboxylate 220 uL 1.13 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction was then stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography acetone CHCl 5 95 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.34 d 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.48 s 1H 7.40 d 1H 6.70 s 1H 4.65 s 2H 2.82 s 3H .

Step 8 S 1 1 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromen 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

The title compound was prepared using 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1yl 4 nitrobenzoate see example 1 step 2 by following the general triazole formation procedure example 1 step 8 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.5 s 1H 8.44 d 2H 8.35 8.25 m 3H 8.11 s 1H 7.35 7.25 m 2H 6.71 s 1H 5.87 s 2H 3.10 3.0 m 1H 2.90 2.80 m 1H 2.85 s 3H 1.14 t 3H .

Step 9 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one

The title compound was prepared following the general deprotection procedure example 1 step 9 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.34 d 1H 8.22 d 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.32 d 1H 6.71 s 1H 5.87 s 2H 5.49 s 1H 2.85 s 3H 2.40 2.30 m 1H 2.10 2.0 m 1H 0.90 0.80 t 3H .

The 2 4 7 trisubstituted quinolines 9 are prepared according to procedures described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 552 437 and 5 576 338. For example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 see Scheme 7 at columns 14 15 and 26 and the preparation of 7 bromomethyl 2 cyano 4 4 fluorophenyl quinoline at column 72. The 7 methyl group is converted to the mono or dibromide intermediate with NBS and heating in an inert solvent such as CClin the presence of a radical initiator such as benzoyl peroxide AIBN and light. The monobromide is treated with an azide salt in a solvent such as ethanol at elevated temperature to give the azide. The monobromide can also be treated with an excess of NMO at elevated temperatures in a solvent such as dioxane to afford the desired aldehyde. Alternatively the dibromide can be reacted with AgNOin aqueous dioxane at reflux also to afford the aldehyde. The aldehyde is reduced with sodium borohydride or the like in THF and methanol to give the primary alcohol. The alcohol is converted to an azide with triphenylphosphine an activating agent such as diisopropyl azodicarboxylate and an azide source such as Zn N .2 pyridine. The azide is then treated with an alkyne in presence of copper iodide and a base such as diisopropylethylamine to afford a triazole. If the alcohol is protected as an ester it can be cleaved with a base such as lithium hydroxide in a solvent like THF to give the tertiary alcohol. The nitrile can be hydrolyzed with a strong acid like HCl to give a carboxylic acid which can be further derivatized as desired.

7 Methylquinoline is converted into 2 cyano 7 methylquinoline by treatment with an oxidizing reagent such as mCPBA in an organic solvent followed by reaction of the intermediate N oxide with an acylating reagent such as dialkylcarbamyl chloride and a cyanating agent such as trimethylsilyl cyanide. Oxidation with mCPBA to the N oxide followed by treatment with an acylating agent such as phosphorus oxychloride at elevated temperature affords the trisubstituted chloroquinoline. Bromination is achieved upon treatment with a bromide source such as NBS and benzoyl peroxide. The bromide is then displaced with a nucleophile such as sodium azide in an organic solvent such as ethanol. The azide is treated with an alkyne in presence of copper iodide and a base such as diisopropylethylamine to afford the triazole. Coupling of the latter with a metalated reagent such as tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin and a catalyst such as Pd PPh under Stille coupling conditions introduces the ethoxyvinyl substituent. Bromination is achieved upon treatment with a bromide source such as NBS. The bromo ketone can be converted to a heterocycle by treatment with a nucleophile such as acetamide in a polar solvent like DMF at elevated temperature. The ester is hydrolyzed to the tertiary alcohol with a base such as lithium hydroxide in a solvent like THF.

The 4 chloroquinoline derivative from quinoline method B can be treated with a variety of boronic acids or the like under standard aqueous Suzuki conditions followed by hydrolysis to give the desired tertiary alcohol. Alternatively the 4 chloroquinoline derivative can be treated with a base such as lithium hydroxide in a solvent like THF to give the tertiary alcohol first which is then treated with a variety of boronic acids or the like under standard aqueous Suzuki conditions the give the desired product.

The 2 cyanoquinoline derivatives from quinoline methods A C can be hydrolyzed with sodium carbonate and hydrogen peroxide to give the desired amide.

The trisubstituted chloroquinoline can be prepared via oxidation of the disubstituted quinoline followed by treatment with POCl. Standard transformations as described in the previous method i.e. NBS bromination azide and triazole formation followed by ester hydrolysis give the tertiary alcohol. The chloride is then displaced with a variety of nucleophiles including but not limited to alcohols amines thiols boronate reagents tin reagents and Grignard reagents in solvents like THF DMF and NMP.

The methylketone is synthesized as described in quinoline method D. Addition of hydride Grignard reagents or the like at low temperature affords alcohols. The alcohol is alkylated with an alkylating agent like MeI in presence of a base such as NaH to give an ether. Alternatively the methylketone can be treated with an amine such as hydroxylamine in pyridine or other organic solvents and a base to give hydroximine derivatives.

The chloroquinoline derivative is prepared according to procedures described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 552 437 and 5 576 338 for the corresponding methyl derivative. The 7 chloro group is converted to allyl intermediate with allyltributyltin under palladium catalysis and heating in an inert solvent such as toluene or dioxane. The alkene is treated with ozone and a reducing agent such as methyl sulphide to give the aldehyde. The aldehyde is reduced with sodium borohydride or the like in THF and methanol to give the primary alcohol. The alcohol is converted to an azide with triphenylphosphine an activating agent such as diisopropyl azodicarboxylate and an azide source such as Zn N .2 pyridine. The azide is then treated with an alkyne in presence of copper iodide and a base such as diisopropylethylamine to afford a triazole. If the alcohol is protected as an ester it can be cleaved with a base such as lithium hydroxide in a solvent like THF to give the tertiary alcohol.

A mixture of 4 7 dichloroquinoline 12.5 g 63.1 mmol phenylboronic acid 9.63 g 79 mmol and cesium fluoride 24 g 158 mmol in 1 2 dimethoxyethane 300 mL was degassed and purged three times with nitrogen gas before the addition of the tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 3.64 g 3.15 mmol . The resultant mixture was then stirred at reflux overnight. After cooling the reaction was filtered over celite and washed with dichloromethane. After evaporation under reduced pressure the residue was purified by column chromatography eluting with hexane EtOAc 95 5 to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 9.0 d 1H 8.15 d 1H 7.95 d 1H 7.65 7.55 m 6H 7.5 d 1H .

To a solution of 7 chloro 4 phenylquinoline 10.0 g 41.7 mmol and Ni dppp Cl 2.26 g 4.17 mmol in ether 200 mL was added dropwise 3.0 M MeMgBr 24.3 mL 73 mmol and heated at reflux for 3 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution and extracted with ether. The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine and then dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was used in the next step without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.9 d 1H 7.93 bs 1H 7.82 d 1H 7.52 7.62 m 5H 7.43 dd 1H 7.35 d 1H 2.60 S 3H .

A solution of 7 methyl 4 phenylquinoline 10.0 g 41.7 mmol and m CPBA 13.5 g 54.8 mmol in chloroform 230 mL was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution and extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was dissolved in chloroform 220 mL . N N Dimethylcarbamoyl chloride 8.44 mL 91.4 mmol and trimethylsilyl cyanide 11.5 mL 91.4 mmol were added to this solution and stirred at room temperature for 2 d. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added and stirred for 30 min. The organic layer was removed and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was used in the next step without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.01 s 1H 7.92 d 1H 7.80 s 1H 7.60 7.67 m 6H 2.63 s 3H .

A solution of 7 methyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 11.2 g 41.7 mmol N bromo succinimide 12.2 g 68.6 mmol and AIBN 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile 200 mg in carbon tetrachloride 200 mL was heated at reflux overnight. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and the solid residue was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with 5 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.30 s 1H 8.06 d 1H 7.90 s 1H 7.87 d 1H 7.6 7.7 m 5H 4.95 s 2H .

A solution of 7 methyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 2.0 g 7.6 mmol N bromosuccinimide 2.7 g 15.2 mmol and AIBN 50 mg in CCl 40 mL was stirred at reflux overnight. After cooling the mixture was filtered and the solid collected was rinsed with CCl. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude residue obtained was suspended overnight in a 10 1 mixture of hexanes and EtO to yield the title compound

To a solution of 7 dibromomethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 2.02 g 4.81 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 75 mL was added a solution of silver nitrate 3.27 g 19.24 mmol in 30 mL of water and the reaction mixture stirred 1 h at reflux. After cooling to rt the mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered. The solid was washed with EtOAc and the organic phases combined. The filtrate was washed twice with water and the combined aqueous layers were back extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography eluting with acetone CHCl toluene 10 40 50 to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 10.39 s 1H 8.80 s 1H 8.21 s 2H 8.07 s 1H 7.66 m 5H .

To a solution of 7 formyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 516 mg 2.0 mmol in THF 6 mL and MeOH 2 mL was added at 0 C. sodium borohydride 91 mg 2.4 mmol . The mixture was stirred 1 h at 0 C. quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The compound was used as such for the next step. MS ESI 262 M H .

To a solution of 7 formyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 520 mg 2.0 mmol in toluene 12 mL was added triphenylphosphine 1.05 g 4.0 mmol Zn N .2 pyridine 461 mg 1.5 mmol and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate 787 L 4.0 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h concentrated and purified on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 3 7 to give the title compound. MS ESI 286 M H .

Step 9 S 1 1 2 cyano 4 phenylquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

To a solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 120 mg 0.42 mmol and 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate 139 mg 0.46 mmol slower eluting enantiomer described in Example 1 step 2 in THF 5 mL was added diisopropylethylamine 0.37 mL 2.1 mmol followed by copper iodide 120 mg 0.63 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight and quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 4 6 gave the title compound. MS ESI 587 M H .

Step 10 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile

To a solution of S 1 1 2 cyano 4 phenylquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 200 mg 0.34 mmol in THF 6 mL was added lithium hydroxide IM 1.7 mL 1.7 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 438 M H .

the general procedure of Example 39 was used to make 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile except substituting racemic 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate in place of the enantiopure form.

Examples 40 41 were prepared using the general procedure described in Example 39 using the appropriated fluoro phenylboronic acid and the slower eluting enantiomer of 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate described in Example 1 step 2.

Examples 40A and 41A were prepared using the general procedures used to prepare Examples 40 and 41 respectively except substituting racemic 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate in place of the enantiopure form.

A solution of S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 44 mg 0.101 mmol in 12 M HCl 1 mL was stirred at 110 C. overnight. The solution was concentrated water was added and the pH was adjusted to 3 by addition of ammonium hydroxide. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the title compound. MS ESI 457 M H .

A mixture of 7 azidomethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 100 mg 0.35 mmol 3 ethylpent 1 yn 3 ol 47 mg 0.42 mmol copper iodide 100 mg 0.52 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 305 L 1.75 mmol in THF 4 mL was stirred at rt for 6 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 398 M H .

Examples 44 49 were made using the general procedures described in Example 39 Steps 1 8 and Example 43 using the appropriate alkyne and fluoro phenyl boronic acid.

The methylether acetylene was prepared from 7 4 1 hydroxycyclopentyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl methyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile by treatment with sodium hydride and methyl iodide.

To a solution of 7 methylquinoline 20.0 g 140 mmol in dichloromethane 700 mL was added 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid 50 62.6 g 182 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Solid calcium hydroxide 13.4 g 182 mmol was added and 15 min later the mixture was filtered through celite rinsed with dichloromethane and the liquors evaporated to dryness to give the title compound. The compound was used as such for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 m 2H 7.93 d 1H 7.80 d 1H 7.55 d 1H 7.35 m 1H 2.60 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 methylquinoline 1 oxide 18.3 g 115 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 750 mL was added trimethylsilyl cyanide 30.8 mL 230 mmol followed by dimethylcarbamoyl chloride 21.2 mL 230 mmol and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was quenched slowly with a sat. solution of sodium bicarbonate diluted with water and extracted two times with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO and concentrated to give the crude compound. Flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel eluting with 3 acetone in dichloromethane provided the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.56 d 1H 8.03 d 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.88 d 1H 7.67 d 1H 2.62 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 methylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 14.2 g 84 mmol in dichloromethane 400 mL was added 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid 50 36.4 g 106 mmol and stirred at room temperature overnight. Solid calcium hydroxide 7.8 g 106 mmol was added and 15 min later the mixture was filtered through celite rinsed with dichloromethane and the liquors evaporated to dryness to give the crude compound. The compound was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 5 acetone in dichloromethane to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.40 s 1H 8.05 d 1H 7.97 d 1H 7.75 m 2H 2.65 s 3H .

A mixture of 7 methylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 1 oxide 11.5 g 63 mmol and phosphorus oxychloride 47 mL 500 mmol was heated at 100 C. for 10 min then at 200 C. for 20 min. The reaction mixture was poured into crushed ice and the precipitate was filtered. The crude material was then purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting solvent 3 acetone in dichloromethane to provide the title compound. HNMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.25 d 1H 8.10 s 1H 8.00 d 1H 7.82 dd 1H 2.65 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 7 methylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 6.66 g 33 mmol in CCl 160 mL was added NBS 6.46 g 36.3 mmol and benzoyl peroxide 800 mg 3.3 mmol . The mixture was heated under reflux overnight cooled to room temperature and evaporated to dryness. The reaction mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting solvent dichloromethane hexane 9 1 to provide the title compound 8.46 g . HNMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.37 d 1H 8.30 s 1H 8.20 s 1H 8.05 d 1H 4.95 s 2H .

A mixture of 7 bromomethyl 4 chloroquinoline 2 carbonitrile 8.46 g 30 mmol sodium azide 2.15 g 33 mmol in EtOH 300 mL was heated under reflux for 1 h. The mixture was then cooled to room temperature and evaporated to dryness. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting solvent 100 CHClto 5 acetone in CHCl to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.40 d 1H 8.20 m 2H 7.97 d 1H 4.85 s 2H .

Step 7 S 1 1 4 chloro 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

To a solution of 7 azidomethyl 4 chloroquinoline 2 carbonitrile 560 mg 2.3 mmol and 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate S isomer 728 mg 2.42 mmol in THF 18 mL was added diisopropylethylamine 2.0 mL 11.5 mmol followed by copper iodide 655 mg 3.45 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with a sat. sol. of NHCl Brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was purified by flash chromatography eluting solvent 5 acetone in CHCl to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.55 s 1H 8.45 d 2H 8.37 d 1H 8.30 d 2H 8.22 s 1H 8.07 s 1H 7.90 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 m 1H 1.15 t 3H .

Step 8 S 4 Chloro 7 4 1S 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinoline 2 carbonitrile

The title compound was obtained from the ester in step 7 by hydrolysis with aq. LiOH using the general procedure described in Example 52 step 4. MS ESI 396 M H .

To a solution of S 1 1 4 chloro 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 900 mg 1.65 mmol tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 0.6 ml 1.73 mmol in dioxane 6 mL was added lithium chloride 210 mg 4.96 mmol and Pd PPh 95 mg 0.083 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 100 C. overnight then cooled to room temperature. The solution was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with sat. sol. of ammonium chloride brine and dried over magnesium sulfate. The crude material was purified on silica gel eluting solvent 3 acetone in CHCl to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.52 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.39 d 1H 8.30 d 2H 8.05 d 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.75 dd 1H 6.02 s 2H 4.75 dd 2H 4.12 q 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 m 1H 1.40 t 3H 1.15 t 3H .

Step 2 S 1 1 4 bromoacetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

To a solution of S 1 1 2 cyano 4 1 ethoxyvinyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 593 mg 1.05 mmol in THF 4 ml and water 0.25 ml was added NBS 205 mg 1.16 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The solution was then evaporated to dryness and purified by flash chromatography eluting solvent 3 acetone in dichloromethane to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.55 s 1H 8.50 s 1H 8.40 d 2H 8.37 d 1H 8.30 d 2H 8.07 s 1H 7.85 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 5.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 m 1H 1.15 t 3H .

Step 3 S 1 1 2 cyano 4 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

A solution of S 1 1 4 bromoacetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 0.16 g 0.25 mmol and acetamide 16 mg 0.28 mmol in DMF 0.25 mL was stirred at room temperature for 4 h then at 100 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted in ethyl acetate washed with water brine and dried over MgSO. The crude compound was purified on silica gel eluting solvent 2 to 5 acetone in dichloromethane to give the desired titled product. H NMR acetone d 8.9 d 1H 8.72 s 1H 8.53 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.30 d 2H 8.25 s 1H 8.05 s 1H 7.77 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 m 1H 2.6 s 3H 1.15 t 3H and also the reduced compound 1 1 4 acetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate. H NMR acetone d 8.55 m 2H 8.45 m 3H 8.3 d 2H 8.07 s 1H 7.82 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 s 3H 2.82 m 1H 1.12 t 3H .

Step 4 S 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl quinoline 2 carbonitrile

To a solution of S 1 1 2 cyano 4 2 methyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 36 mg 0.06 mmol in THF 1.4 mL was added lithium hydroxide 2M 150 uL 0.3 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with an ammonium chloride solution brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to yield the title compound. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography 10 acetone 90 dichloromethane to give the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.9 d 1H 8.73 s 1H 8.24 d 2H 8.11 s 1H 7.80 d 1H 6.02 s 2H 5.49 s 1H 2.6 s 3H 2.35 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 0.86 t 3H .

A solution of 1 1 4 bromoacetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate see Example 52 Step 2 65 mg 0.1 mmol and thioacetamide 9 mg 0.11 mmol in DMF 1 mL was stirred at 100 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted in ethyl acetate washed with water brine and dried over MgSO. The crude compound was purified on silica gel eluting solvent 3 acetone in dichloromethane to give the desired product. H NMR acetone d 8.85 d 1H 8.52 s 1H 8.42 d 2H 8.30 d 2H 8.17 d 2H 8.05 s 1H 7.75 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 s 3H 2.85 m 1H 1.15 t 3H .

Step 2 7 4 1S 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl quinoline 2 carbonitrile

Following the procedure described in Example 52 Step 4 1 1 2 cyano 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 46 mg 0.076 mmol was hydrolyzed to obtain the desired compound after flash chromatography purification 10 acetone in dichloromethane . H NMR acetone d 8.85 d 1H 8.25 s 1H 8.20 d 2H 8.12 s 1H 7.75 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 2.85 s 3H 2.35 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 0.85 t 3H MS ESI 459 M H .

To a solution of S 1 1 4 acetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate obtained as described in Example 52 step 4 47 mg 0.085 mmol in THF 2 mL was added lithium hydroxide 2M 210 uL 0.42 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with an ammonium chloride sln. brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to yield the title compound. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography 10 acetone 90 dichloromethane to give the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.55 d 1H 8.40 s 1H 8.24 s 1H 8.11 s 1H 8.85 d 1H 6.02 s 2H 2.85 s 3H 2.35 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 0.86 t 3H .

To a solution of PS 34 mg 0.08 mmol in dioxane 1 mL at 0 C. was added formamide 57 mg 1.26 mmol . The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature for 1 h. A solution of 1 1 4 bromoacetyl 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate see Example 52 Step 2 160 mg 0.25 mmol in dioxane 1 mL was then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted in ethyl acetate washed with water brine and dried over MgSO. The crude compound was purified on silica gel eluting solvent 5 acetone in dichloromethane to give the desired product. H NMR acetone d 9.35 s 1H 8.80 d 1H 8.55 s 1H 8.40 m 3H 8.30 d 2H 8.22 s 1H 8.05 s 1H 7.75 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.85 m 1H 1.15 t 3H .

Step 2 7 4 1S 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl 4 1 3 thiazol 4 yl quinoline 2 carbonitrile

Following the general procedure described in Example 52 Step 4 1 1 2 cyano 4 1 3 thiazol 4 yl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 46 mg 0.08 mmol was hydrolyzed to obtain the desired compound after flash chromatography purification 10 acetone in dichloromethane . H NMR acetone d 9.37 s 1H 8.80 d 1H 8.45 s 1H 8.25 d 2H 8.15 s 1H 7.80 d 1H 6.05 s 2H 5.50 s 1H 2.35 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 0.85 t 3H MS APCI 445 M H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinoline 2 carbonitrile 100 mg 0.25 mmol in DME 3 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 14 mg 0.013 mmol 3 4 difluorophenylboronic acid 59 mg 0.38 mmol and aq. 2M NaCO 0.38 mL 0.75 mmol . After 2 h at 100 C. the reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 4 6 gave the title compound. MS ESI 474 M H .

To a solution of S 1 1 4 chloro 2 cyanoquinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 150 mg 0.28 mmol in DME 3 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 16 mg 0.014 mmol 3 5 dichlorophenylboronic acid 80 mg 0.42 mmol and aq. 2M NaCO 0.42 mL 0.84 mmol . After 1.5 h at 100 C. the reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. To this crude product was added THF 4 mL and LiOH IM 1.4 mL 1.4 mmol . After 2 h at rt the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 3 7 gave the title compound. MS ESI 506 M H .

Examples 58 67 were made using the general procedures described in Example 57 using the appropriate phenyl or heteroaryl boronic acid.

To a solution of S 4 3 5 dichlorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinoline 2 carbonitrile 30 mg 0.059 mmol in acetone 1.5 mL and water 1 mL was added sodium percarbonate 28 mg 0.18 mmol . After 1.5 h at 50 C. the reaction was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 524 M H .

A solution of 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 methylquinoline 3.09 g 12.2 mmol in phosphorus oxychloride 8 mL 85.8 mmol was stirred 30 min. at 90 C. The mixture was poured slowly into an aqueous saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane hexanes 1 70 29 gave the title compound. MS ESI 271 M H .

A solution of 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 methylquinoline 2.0 g 7.4 mmol N bromo succinimide 1.57 g 8.8 mmol and AIBN 30 mg 0.18 mmol in CCl 40 mL was refluxed for 16 h. The solution was then cooled to rt filtered and concentrated. Purification on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane hexanes 1 1 gave the title compound. MS ESI 351 M H .

A solution of 7 bromomethyl 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinoline 1.0 g 2.9 mmol and sodium azide 204 mg 3.1 mmol in ethanol 40 mL was refluxed for 16 h. The solution was concentrated and dichloromethane was added. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI 313 M H .

Step 4 S 1 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate

A mixture of 7 azidomethyl 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinoline 500 mg 1.60 mmol 1 ethyl 1 trifluoromethyl prop 2 yn 1 yl 4 nitrobenzoate 529 mg 1.76 mmol copper iodide 456 mg 2.4 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 1.4 mL 8.04 mmol in THF 10 mL was stirred at rt for 16 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 4 6 gave the title compound. MS ESI 614 M H .

Step 5 S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol

A solution of 1 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 4 nitrobenzoate 300 mg 0.49 mmol and LiOH 2M HO 1.25 mL 2.5 mmol in THF 5 mL was stirred at rt 5 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 465 M H .

A solution of 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 85 mg 0.18 mmol in NMP 1 mL and ammonium hydroxide 15 M 1 mL was stirred at 175 C. in a microwave for 10 min. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with ethanol dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 445 M H .

A solution of 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 100 mg 0.22 mmol in benzylamine 0.3 mL was stirred at 125 C. for 6 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 536 M H .

A solution of 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 75 mg 0.16 mmol in NMP 0.5 mL and pyrrolidine 0.5 mL was stirred at 130 C. in a microwave for 20 min. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with NHOH ethanol dichloromethane 1 9 90 gave the title compound. MS ESI 501 M H .

A solution of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 250 mg 0.54 mmol and sodium methoxide 290 mg 5.4 mmol in methanol 7 mL was refluxed for 14 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 461 M H .

A solution of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 60 mg 0.13 mmol and sodium trifluoroethoxide 79 mg 0.65 mmol in DMF 3 mL was stirred at 120 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes 3 7 gave the title compound. MS ESI 529 M H .

A solution of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 85 mg 0.18 mmol and sodium thiomethoxide 51 mg 0.72 mmol in DMF 3 mL was stirred at rt for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 477 M H .

To a solution of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 100 mg 0.22 mmol in THF 3 mL was added Ni dppp Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and cyclopropylmagnesium bromide 0.5M 1.3 mL 0.66 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound MS ESI 471 M H .

To a solution of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 100 mg 0.22 mmol in DME 5 mL was added Pd PPh 12 mg 0.01 mmol phenylboronic acid 34 mg 0.29 mmol and sodium carbonate 2M 0.2 mL 0.44 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 14 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 1 9 gave the title compound. MS ESI 507. M H .

This compound was prepared using the general procedures described in example 39 using 7 methyl 4 4 fluorophenyl quinoline in place of 7 methyl 4 phenylquinoline and eliminating the introduction of the 2 cyano group. MS ESI 414 M OH .

A mixture of S 2 1 2 chloro 4 4 fluorophenyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 235 mg 0.51 mmol tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 188 L 0.56 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 30 mg 0.025 mmol and lithium chloride 64 mg 1.5 mmol was refluxed in dioxane 10 mL overnight. An aqueous saturated solution of NaHCOwas added and the mixture extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduce pressure. THF 5 mL and 3M HCl 2 mL were added and the solution was stirred at rt for 4 h. An aqueous saturated solution of NaHCOwas added and the mixture extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 473 M H .

To a solution of S 1 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinolin 2 yl ethanone 100 mg 0.21 mmol in THF 5 mL at 78 C. was added methylmagnesium bromide 3M in ether 210 L 0.63 mmole . The reaction was warmed up to rt over 2 h and quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 490 M H .

To a solution of S 1 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinolin 2 yl ethanone 100 mg 0.21 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL at 78 C. was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 79 L 0.44 mmole . The solution was stirred 20 minutes after which a few drops of acetone were added. The reaction was warmed up to rt and sodium sulfate decahydrate 205 mg 0.63 mmol was added. After stirring for 30 minutes the mixture was filtered on celite and concentrated. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 3 7 gave the title compound. MS ESI 475 M H .

To a solution of S 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 1 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 1 hydroxyethyl quinolin 7 yl methyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl butan 2 ol 33 mg 0.070 mmol in THF 1 mL was added iodomethane 5 L 0.077 mmol and sodium hydride 60 in oil 6 mg 0.15 mmol . After 2 h at rt the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduce pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 490 M H .

A solution of S 1 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylmethyl quinolin 2 yl ethanone 50 mg 0.11 mmol and hydroxylamine hydrochloride 11 mg 0.16 mmol in pyridine 1 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The solution was concentrated and purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 488 M H .

The title compound was made using the general procedure of example 101 except using NH2OMe hydrochloride in place of hydroxylamine. MS ESI 502 M H .

A solution of 7 chloro 4 phenylquinoline Example 39 Step 1 3.0 g 12.5 mmol and m CPBA 2.6 g 15.0 mmol in chloroform 50 mL was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution and extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was dissolved in chloroform 50 mL . N N Dimethylcarbamoyl chloride 2.4 mL 25.0 mmol and trimethylsilyl cyanide 3.4 mL 25.0 mmol were added to this solution and stirred at room temperature for 2 days. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added and the mixture stirred for 30 min. The organic layer was removed and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were washed with water brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting crude product was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of 7 chloro 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 3.3 g 12.5 mmol in dioxane 120 mL was added tetrakistriphenylphosphine 3.6 g 3.1 mmol and allyltributyltin 11.5 mL 38 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 10 h concentrated and purified on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane hexanes 3 1 to give the title compound. MS ESI 271 M H .

Ozone was bubbled into a solution of 7 allyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 1.5 g 5.6 mmol in ethyl acetate 100 mL at 78 C. for 1.5 h. Nitrogen was then bubbled into the solution and methylsulfide 2.1 mL 28 mmol was added. The reaction was brought back to room temperature stirred for 1 h and concentrated to give the title compound. MS ESI 273 M H .

To a solution of 7 2 oxoethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 1.5 g 5.5 mmol in THF 30 mL and MeOH 10 mL was added portionwise at 0 C. sodium borohydride 320 mg 8.4 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight at rt. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSOconcentrated under reduced pressure and purified on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to give the title compound. MS ESI 275 M H .

To a solution of 7 2 hydroxyethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 180 mg 0.66 mmol in toluene 4 mL was added triphenylphosphine 345 mg 1.32 mmol Zn N 2 pyridine 151 mg 0.49 mmol and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate 260 L 1.32 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h concentrated and purified on silica gel eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 8 to give the title compound. MS ESI 300 M H .

A mixture of 7 2 azidoethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile 128 mg 0.43 mmol 3 ethylpent 1 yn 3 ol 63 mg 0.56 mmol copper iodide 58 mg 0.65 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 375 L 2.2 mmol in THF 5 mL was stirred at rt for 6 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification on silica gel eluting with acetone dichloromethane 2 8 gave the title compound. MS ESI 394 M H .

 S 7 2 4 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 ylethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile

The title compound was prepared from 7 2 azidoethyl 4 phenylquinoline 2 carbonitrile and 3 trifluoromethyl 1 pent 1 yn 3 ol using the general procedure of Example 103. MS ESI 452 M H .

