---

title: Location based media items
abstract: Media items can be distributed to mobile devices based on the location of the media device. The media items can be associated with location information, which can be examined and distributed to those devices whose proximate area includes the location information associated with the media items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332402&OS=08332402&RS=08332402
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08332402
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 946 840 filed Jun. 28 2007 and entitled LOCATION BASED MEDIA ITEMS the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Navigation systems provide little intelligence other than the ability to navigate from an origination point to a destination point. Often such navigation systems are implemented on hand held devices and a user may utilize such a system in unfamiliar surroundings e.g. while walking through a city the user is visiting during a vacation. Because most navigation interfaces on the hand held device typically provide only a map and or directions to the user the user may not experience interesting locations nearby e.g. the user may walk past a historical location unaware of the significance.

Some navigation systems can provide data related to locations nearby a user. However the provisioning of such location data can result in a cluttered navigation interface e.g. a user may have a navigation interface set to display several city blocks but the interface may be cluttered by multiple alerts related to interesting locations outside the boundary displayed on the navigation interface. Furthermore the location data that is received may be of little interest to the user e.g. a user may be interested in historical locations but may receive data related to non historical locations that are not of immediate interest to the user. The provision of such data can result in a poor user experience.

In one aspect systems methods apparatuses and computer program products are provided. In one aspect methods are disclosed which include steps such as communicating location information associated with a device to a server the location information including boundary information defining a geographic area depicted by a current map display associated with the device receiving at the device media items from the server the media items comprising vicinity content associated with the location information the vicinity content comprising content associated with the geographical area defined by the boundary information and presenting the media items received at the device to a user.

In another aspect methods are disclosed which include steps such as receiving current location information associated with a current location of a mobile device the current location information including boundary information defining a geographic area depicted by a current map display associated with the device filtering a plurality of media items based on a geographic area defined by the boundary information identified by the location information the media items comprising content associated with the geographic area defined by the boundary information and transmitting the media items to the mobile device for presentation.

Systems can include a positioning system a preferences engine a communications interface and a user interface. The positioning system derives location information associated with an associated device while the preferences engine can receive and store preferences associated with a user of the device. The communications interface can communicate preferences and location information associated with the device to a server. The communications interface can also receive media items including content based on the preferences and based on location information. The user interface can present the media items to a user associated with the device.

Other systems can include a communications interface and a location based media engine. The communications interface receives location information associated with a current location of a mobile device and to receive user preferences while the location based media engine identifies media items based on user preferences and on a geographic area proximate to the mobile device the media items including content associated with the geographic area and identified by the user preferences. The communications interface can then communicate the media items to the mobile device for presentation to a user associated with the mobile device.

Systems and methods as described can enhance the data provided by a mobile navigation system. Location based media items can provide multimedia tours for sightseers. Location based media can also provide route photo and video sharing among users and can provide media of local interest to users enhancing their understanding of local life and culture.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as a 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishers over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device .

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

In some implementations the mobile device can receive positioning information from a positioning system . The positioning system in various implementations can be located on the mobile device or can be coupled to the mobile device e.g. using a wired connection or a wireless connection . In some implementations the positioning system can include a global positioning system GPS receiver and a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information from received GPS satellite signals. In other implementations the positioning system can include a compass and an accelerometer as well as a positioning engine operable to derive positioning information based on dead reckoning techniques. In still further implementations the positioning system can use wireless signals e.g. cellular signals IEEE 802.11 signals etc to determine location information associated with the mobile device such as those provided by Skyhook Wireless Inc. of Boston Mass. Hybrid positioning systems using a combination of satellite and television signals such as those provided by Rosum Corporation of Mountain View Calif. can also be used. Other positioning systems are possible.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some embodiments the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions.

The memory can also include a preferences engine . The preferences engine can be operable to receive user preferences as to the sorts of media items the user is interested. In some implementations the preferences can be used to filter the sorts of information that is sent to the mobile device . For example the user might indicate a preference for local music. Thus when local music is available the mobile device can retrieve available local music. In another example the user might indicate a preference not to receive video route or image content when in a specified area e.g. hometown familiar city etc. but to receive route and image content when outside of their specified area. These preferences can be communicated to a media service e.g. media service of and can be used by the media service to provide relevant media content based on location and or preferences.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Upon receiving position information from the communications interface the location based media engine can retrieve candidate media items associated with the position information received from the mobile device . These candidate media items can be retrieved from a media item store . In some implementations the media items can be retrieved based upon tagging information associated with the media items. The tagging information can identify a location associated with the media items and determine whether the tagging information defines a location within a proximate area to the mobile device. For example media items might be available on the media items store . Media items are associated with locations outside of the proximate area to the mobile device . Thus these media items are not served to the mobile device . However media items are associated with locations inside of the proximate area . Thus these media items are served to the mobile device .

Although a circular proximate area is shown other proximate areas can also be defined. In some implementations the proximate area can correspond to a current display boundary displayed on the mobile device . In other implementations the proximate area can be user defined.

In other implementations the device can retrieve a list of media items associated with the proximate area from the media service . The device can then compare the list of media items with media items already present on the device. For example the device may be located at the Statue of Liberty and other users may have associated certain patriotic songs including Stars and Stripes Forever with the location. The device can review its local storage for the song before downloading the song from the server. In another example the map can display a location associated with a calendar appointment from one or more calendars stored locally or remotely and associated with one or more users of the device.

In further implementations the media service might send particular genre or local character sights information to the device. The device can then use the genre or local character sights information to identify whether the device includes any locally stored media items which correspond to the genre or local character sights information. For example the device can store pictures. The pictures might be tagged with a location genre or characteristic associated with the subject of the picture. So if the user were standing at the Statue of Liberty the device can receive genre character sights information that might include keywords like Statue of Liberty New York City etc. The device could then search the local date store to identify local media items associated with the keywords such as an old picture of the Statue of Liberty taken during a previous trip to New York City. In other implementations the device might include the ability to compare locally stored photos with a characteristic photo associated with a location to determine whether the local device includes any locally stored media items associated with the current location.

In various implementations the user can cause the mobile device to enter a state in which the mobile device alerts the media service that the user would like to receive local media content or notification of available local media content e.g. such as when the user is sightseeing hiking on vacation etc. . The user can also cause the mobile device to enter a state in which the mobile device alerts the media service that the user does not want to receive local media content or notification of available local media content e.g. such as when the user is driving to from work in the grocery store etc. .

In some implementations the media content can be supplied by other users. For example a user might be standing at the Washington Monument taking a picture of the monument and decide that they would like to share the picture with other users. The picture can be automatically tagged with the location information and uploaded to the media service for storage in the media item store . Similarly a local band that often performs at a venue location might decide to make their music available to users that are within the proximate area of the venue location and upload their songs to the media service .

In other implementations the media content can be commercial content supplied by vendors e.g. content providers . In such implementations the media service can include a payment engine operable to collect payment from users and distribute payment to vendors. For example a tour company might decide to make audio walking tours available for sale to users by uploading tour data to the media service . The user can be alerted to the price of the tour and the mobile device can provide account information which can be used by the payment engine to collect payment from the user. For example a user walking through downtown Boston may be alerted that an audio walking tour starting at a location within the proximate area is available for 0.99. If the user decides to purchase the tour an account associated with the user can be charged a 0.99 fee.

In some implementations the media content can be overlaid onto a map provided by a navigation service e.g. navigation service such as shown in . Such overlay can provide notification to the user of available media items. The location of media items can be marked by pushpin for example. Thus as the user is navigating using the navigation service the user can be notified when a media item is available in a proximate area. In some implementations the notification can provide an indication of what sorts of media items are available e.g. photos videos music routes multimedia tours etc. whether the media items are user contributed or commercial and or how many media items are available among others.

In some implementations media content can be provided based on a user preference. For example a user may set a preference on the mobile device to indicate the user is interested in historical subjects. Accordingly the mobile device might only display media content that relates only to historical subjects e.g. the media content may be displayed if it relates to a historical monument while the media item might not be displayed if it relates to another user s review of a nearby restaurant. Subject matter relations can for example be stored in the media item store .

In further implementations the media service can include a preference engine operable to store user preferences in a user preference store . Preferences can be stored such that when a user requests media the media service provides the user with media that is relevant to the user s interests. Thus in some implementations the mobile device sends preference information only when there is a change to existing preference information and the media service stores the preference information for any subsequent communication of media items.

Other presentations of the media item abstracts can also be used. For example the abstracts can be grouped by subject matter e.g. history entertainment dining etc. or can be grouped by date e.g. added today added within the last week etc. or can be grouped by users or entities etc.

At optional stage user preferences can be communicated. The user preferences can be communicated for example by a mobile device e.g. mobile device of in conjunction with a preferences engine e.g. preferences engine of operating in conjunction with a wireless communication system e.g. wireless communication subsystem of . In some implementations the preference information can include information such as what types of media a user associated with the mobile device is interested in receiving. Thus the user can set up the mobile device to receive only certain kinds of media content.

At stage media items are received. Media items can be received for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with communication instructions e.g. communication instructions of and the wireless communication subsystem e.g. wireless communication subsystem of . In some implementations the media items can be those media items which are associated with an area proximate to the mobile device. In additional implementations the mobile device can further filter the media items based on preferences of a user associated with the mobile device.

At stage the media items are presented. The media items can be presented for example by the mobile device e.g. mobile device operating in conjunction with graphical user interface instructions e.g. GUI instructions of along with a touch screen e.g. touch screen of and or an audio subsystem e.g. audio subsystem of . The presentation of the media items can be based upon user input received using the touch screen user interface. For example a user might be prompted by the mobile device whether to present the media item s .

In some implementations the method can restart when the user selects to change the scale of the map or is moving such that the map window changes. For example if a user instructs the mobile device to zoom out the media items provided to the user based on the original boundaries will not include any media items added by the new zoom level. In some implementations a mobile device can transmit a boundary delta to a media service. The media service can then identify only those additional media items which are implicated by the change in scale or movement of the map window.

At optional stage user preferences can be received. The user preferences can be received for example by a communications interface e.g. communications interface of . In some implementations the preference information is associated with a user of a mobile device and includes information such as what types of media a user associated with a mobile device is interested in receiving.

At stage the available media items are filtered based on the received location information. The available media items can be filtered for example using a location based media engine e.g. location based media engine of in conjunction with a media item store e.g. media item store of . The media items stored in the media items store can include location tagging information associating the media items with a location. If the location is within a proximate area to the location information associated with the mobile device the media items are made available to the mobile device. The media items can include both commercial and non commercial content. In some implementations the non commercial content can include content provided by users e.g. peer contributed content .

In some implementations the available media items can also be filtered based on preference information. For example a user might indicate a preference to only receive media items during specified times at specified locations during route guidance etc. A user might further indicate preferences based on the type of content available. For example a user might only be interested in video content associated with current location information.

At stage the filtered media items are transmitted. The filtered media items can be transmitted for example by a communications interface e.g. communications interface . In various implementations the transmission can be wireless or wire based. The transmission of the media items in some implementations includes only transmission of abstract information associated with the media items e.g. icons to improve performance. Thus the content associated with the media item might only be downloaded when the user requests the content. In other implementations the entire content of each of the media items is transferred to the mobile device and the mobile device provides the user with an interface to navigate the media items.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may use data signals conveyed using networks e.g. local area network wide area network internet etc. fiber optic medium carrier waves wireless networks e.g. wireless local area networks wireless metropolitan area networks cellular networks etc. etc. for communication with one or more data processing devices e.g. mobile devices . The data signals can carry any or all of the data disclosed herein that is provided to or from a device.

The methods and systems described herein may be implemented on many different types of processing devices by program code comprising program instructions that are executable by one or more processors. The software program instructions may include source code object code machine code or any other stored data that is operable to cause a processing system to perform methods described herein.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that software instructions or a module can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code or firmware. The software components and or functionality may be located on a single device or distributed across multiple devices depending upon the situation at hand.

This written description sets forth the best mode of the invention and provides examples to describe the invention and to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. This written description does not limit the invention to the precise terms set forth. Thus while the invention has been described in detail with reference to the examples set forth above those of ordinary skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the examples without departing from the scope of the invention.

