---

title: Techniques to manage vehicle communications
abstract: Techniques to manage vehicle communications are described. A mobile computing device may include a communication module operative to establish a first communication channel with a message server, and a second communication channel with a vehicle system, a message application module communicatively coupled to the communication module, the message application module operative to receive a user message over the first communication channel, and send an event message over the second communication channel, and a vehicle message application module communicatively coupled to the message application module, the vehicle message application module operative to receive a read control directive over the second communication channel, convert text information from the user message to mail audio information, and send the mail audio information over the second communication channel. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126435&OS=08126435&RS=08126435
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08126435
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth.

In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

In some cases certain electronic devices might not have the computing and or communications resources typically available to a smart phone. Such electronic devices may occasionally utilize the computing and or communications resources offered by a smart phone by pairing with the smart phone utilizing an appropriate communications protocol such as a wireless personal area network WPAN communications protocol. It is with respect to these and other considerations that some enhancements have been developed.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to enhanced techniques to manage vehicle communications using a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to techniques for controlling a message application implemented by a mobile computing device utilizing control directives received by a vehicle system. In one embodiment for example the message application may comprise an email message application the control directives may comprise voice commands and the vehicle system may comprise a vehicle computing device. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples.

The enhanced vehicle communications techniques may provide several advantages over conventional techniques. When driving in a vehicle for example it is typically unsafe for a user to check email on a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Furthermore a vehicle may not have a vehicle computing device with sufficient computing or communications resources needed to execute a message application such as an electronic mail email application.

To reduce or avoid these and other issues a smart phone may be designed to interoperate with a vehicle system such as a media system or navigation system to announce the user of the new messages received by the smart phone via the vehicle device. A driver can choose to listen to the new messages utilizing a user interface and various input devices e.g. buttons for manual commands microphone for voice commands etc. implemented for the vehicle system and the smart phone can read out the new messages to the user over various output devices implemented for the vehicle system e.g. a speaker electronic display etc. . In this manner the user does not have to actually handle the smart phone while driving thereby reducing safety issues and increasing user convenience.

The enhanced vehicle communications techniques may establish a wireless PAN WPAN between the smart phone and the vehicle system utilizing a common PAN protocol. In one embodiment for example the common PAN protocol may comprise the Bluetooth protocol as defined by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering IEEE organization such as IEEE 802.15.x series of protocols variants and progeny Bluetooth Standard . The smart phone may utilize a hands free profile designed in accordance with the Bluetooth Standard to establish the WPAN with the vehicle system. Furthermore the smart phone may utilize in band ringing techniques to notify a user of new messages. In band ringing refers to the capability of using audio files from the smart phone to be used a ringtone over the vehicle system when an incoming telephone call is received. Applying the in band ringing feature to messaging applications when a new message arrives at the smart phone the smart phone streams audio information over to the vehicle system to announce the new message arrival. This is perceived as an incoming call by the vehicle system and hence the user can choose to read the new message using the same set of buttons or other interface tools on the vehicle system. For example to listen to the new message a user can press an accept call button on the vehicle system. The smart phone can utilize a text to speech TTS technique to synthesize text information from the new message to audio information and stream the audio information to the vehicle system for reproduction using a vehicle speaker. Similarly the smart phone can utilize a speech to text STT technique to convert audio information to text information to control a message application implemented by the smart phone or vehicle system or respond to the new message using common messaging features e.g. reply forward delete file etc. .

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

In various embodiments some or all of the elements of the illustrated embodiment shown in may be implemented using a processing system comprising in a basic form a processor and memory. The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth. In some cases the processor may be implemented as a radio processor to provide various communications operations such as baseband processing protocol processing and so forth. The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor. The memory may store various modules in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide enhanced vehicle communication operations for the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The vehicle system may be generally configured to support wireless data communication and computing capabilities for a vehicle . The vehicle system may further provide various input devices and output devices. Examples of input devices may include buttons displays microphones keypads keyboards pointing devices and so forth. Example of output devices may include speakers displays vibrators and so forth. Examples of vehicle system may include without limitation media systems entertainment systems navigation systems vehicle computing systems and so forth. In some cases the vehicle system may be integrated with the vehicle such as an audio system having microphones and speakers integrated into the existing framework of the vehicle. In other cases the vehicle system may be a separate electronic device arranged for temporary or permanent attachment to the vehicle interior and may include integrated input devices and or output devices.

In one use scenario the mobile computing device and the vehicle system may be used internally to the vehicle . The mobility feature of the mobile computing device allows a user to transport the mobile computing device to different geographical locations including within the interior of the vehicle . Once within the interior of the vehicle if the user owns both the mobile computing device and the vehicle the mobile computing device and the vehicle system may operate as trusted devices and automatically establish one or more logical or physical channels to communicate information. The information may include media information and control information. Media information may refer to any data representing content meant for a user. Examples of content may include for example data from a voice conversation videoconference streaming video electronic mail email message voice mail message alphanumeric symbols graphics image video text and so forth. Data from a voice conversation may be for example speech information silence periods background noise comfort noise tones and so forth. Control information may refer to any data representing commands instructions or control words meant for an automated system. For example control information may be used to route media information through a system or instruct a node to process the media information in a predetermined manner. The communication channel is typically a secure communication channel to prevent snooping from unauthorized parties although in some cases an unsecure communication channel may be used as well.

This arrangement allows the mobile computing device and the vehicle system to interoperate to provide various communication services such as hands free communication for telephone calls. In such cases the mobile computing device provides the telephony capabilities by establishing and managing the call channel while the vehicle system provides the hands free communication capabilities by reproducing audio information from the remote user with the vehicle speakers and accepting audio information from the local user with the vehicle microphone.

The message server may comprise a network device such as a server providing messaging services for the mobile computing device . The message services may include without limitation email services chat short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS facsimile service voice service video service and so forth. The message server may be implemented to provide a limited set of discrete messaging services or may provide integrated messaging services such as unified messaging UM services. UM services integrate different streams of communication into a single or unified message store accessible from a variety of devices. In this case the message server may be implemented as part of a fully integrated unified communications system.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device the vehicle system and the message server may implement various communication technologies to communicate media information and control information between each other. In one embodiment for example the elements may implement respective communication modules . The communication modules may comprise various wired or wireless communication elements. The wireless communication elements may comprise various radio elements including a radio processor one or more transceivers amplifiers filters switches and so forth. The communication modules may communicate with remote devices across different types of wireless links utilizing various communications techniques.

Since the mobile computing device and the message server are typically geographically disparate the communication modules may implement different types of longer range wireless systems. For example the communication modules may communicate across wireless links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth. The communication modules may also communicate across data networking links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples.

The communication modules may additionally or alternatively communicate across various non cellular communications links. The communication modules may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Since the mobile computing device and the vehicle system are typically geographically proximate e.g. within a vehicle cabin the communication modules may utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems. For example the communication modules may be implemented as Bluetooth devices operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Standards such as the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices. Similar to the communication modules the communication modules may also implement various mid range wireless systems such as offered by the IEEE 802.xx series of protocols.

It may be appreciated that the communication modules may utilize different communications elements e.g. radio processors transceivers etc. to implement different communications techniques. Furthermore the communication modules may support multiple communications techniques by implementing multiple sets of corresponding radio equipment. For example the communication module may support GSM communications using a first transceiver IEEE 802.xx e.g. 802.11 communications using a second transceiver Bluetooth communications using a third transceiver and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In general operation the mobile computing device may be operative to establish various communication channels with the message server via the communication modules . In one embodiment for example the communication module may be operative to establish a first communication channel with the communication module of the message server over the wireless media . The communication module may be operative to establish a second communication channel with the vehicle system over the wireless media . In one embodiment the first communication channel may be established over a wireless local area network WLAN or wireless wide area network WWAN and the second communication channel may be established over a WPAN. For example the WLAN may comprise an IEEE 802.11x network the WWAN network may comprise a cellular radiotelephone system network and the WPAN may comprise a Bluetooth network. In the latter case the WPAN Bluetooth network may be established using a Bluetooth hands free profile commonly used to establish short range wireless networks between a mobile device and a vehicle car kit.

The mobile computing device may include the message application module communicatively coupled to the communication module . As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement one or more messaging application modules arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each of the messaging application modules may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. The messaging application modules may comprise for example a telephone application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an email application an SMS application and an MMS application . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the messaging application modules may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in addition to the messaging application modules which are consistent with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise a message content database as shown in . The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects of messages sent and received by the messaging application modules . The message content database may be implemented as part of one or more memory units for the mobile computing device for example.

The message application module may be generally operative to communicate messages between the mobile computing device and the message server and between the mobile computing device and the vehicle system via the vehicle message application module . In this respect the message application module and or the vehicle message application module operate as a two way or bi directional communication channel between the vehicle system and the message server .

In one embodiment the message application module receives a user message over the first communication channel and sends an event message over the second communication channel . A user message may refer to a message sent to a user of the mobile computing device via the message server . The user message may comprise for example an email message sent from another corresponding message application used by another user. The message application module may receive the user message and process the user message per normal message handling rules. In addition the message application module may notify the vehicle message application module of the new incoming user message to determine whether to route the new incoming user message to the vehicle system . This may be accomplished by generating and sending a suitable event message notifying the vehicle system of the new incoming user message over the second communication channel .

The mobile computing device may include the vehicle message application module communicatively coupled to the message application module . The vehicle message application module may be operative to receive various control directives from the vehicle system over the second communication channel . The control directives may be received by one or more input devices from a user and sent to the mobile computing device via the second communication channel . For example the control directives may comprise voice commands converted to text information or other suitable control messages and or signals to control operations for the message application module and or the vehicle message application module .

In one embodiment the vehicle message application module may be operative to receive a read control directive over the second communication channel . For instance once the vehicle system receives the event message from the vehicle message application module the vehicle system may relay a read control directive from a user to read the new incoming user message. The vehicle message application module may synthesize or convert text information from the new incoming user message to mail audio information and send the mail audio information over the second communication channel to the vehicle system .

The vehicle system may include the I O interface module communicatively coupled to the communication module . The I O interface module may be operative to receive event audio information and audibly reproduce the event audio information using the output device . The I O interface module may receive a read control directive from the user via the input device . For example the user may listen to the event audio information and determine to read the new incoming user message. The user may enter a read control directive either manually through various input buttons presented by a user interface for the vehicle system or through voice commands via a microphone. The I O interface module may receive the control directive and send the read control directive over the second communication channel to the mobile computing device .

In response to the read control directive the vehicle message application module may synthesize or convert text information from the new incoming user message to mail audio information and send the mail audio information over the second communication channel to the vehicle system . The vehicle system may receive the mail audio information over the second communication channel and audibly reproduce the mail audio information utilizing the I O interface module and a suitable output device such as a vehicle speaker.

Although legacy vehicle systems typically include limited computing capabilities and therefore operate as conduits for signal paths between the mobile computing device and the I O devices for those vehicle systems having enhanced computing capabilities such as vehicle computing devices some of the features and operations performed by the mobile computing device may be distributed or moved completely to the vehicle system . In such cases the vehicle system may optionally include a vehicle message application module communicatively coupled to the communication module and the I O interface module . In addition to the same features and operations performed by the vehicle message application module when implemented by the mobile computing device the vehicle message application module as implemented by the vehicle system may be operative to navigate a message interface to the message application module in response to voice commands received from the input device . In this case the TTS and or STT operations may be performed by the vehicle system and the resulting output signals communicated over the second communications channel for interpretation and subsequent processing by the message application module . This may be advantageous for example when the vehicle system provides superior computing capabilities than the mobile computing device thereby enhancing speed and efficiency when operating the message application module . This may also be advantageous to conserve battery life for the mobile computing device when an external power supply is unavailable e.g. using a vehicle charger .

The mobile computing device may include an alert profile manager module communicatively coupled to the message application module . The alert profile manager module may be operative to retrieve one or more alert profiles corresponding to a message type for the user message . The alert profiles may comprise a set of alert parameters or rules for alerting a user to the arrival of a particular message. For example an alert parameter may include playing a particular audio file for a selected ringtone setting a volume level for the audio file causing an output device such as a vibrator motor to vibrate the mobile computing device illuminating a set of light emitting diodes LEDs in a certain sequence and so forth. Different alert profiles may be created for any number of reasons such as different message types different senders different receivers different communication modes different operating environments and so forth. The different alert profiles may be indexed by any suitable type of metadata for search and retrieval operations. One of the alert profiles may comprise a vehicle alert profile designed to handle incoming user messages suitable for reproduction by the vehicle system .

Whenever the message application module receives the user message the message application module may determine a message type associated with the user message e.g. an email message and send the message type to the alert profile manager module . The alert profile manager module may retrieve an alert profile corresponding to the message type and forward various control directives and internal event messages consistent with the alert profile . For example whenever the message application module receives the user message comprising an email message the message application module may notify the alert profile manager module to retrieve the vehicle alert profile . The vehicle alert profile may include vehicle alert parameters and rules to process the user message such as forwarding the user message to the vehicle message application module for further message processing operations among others.

As depicted in the vehicle message application module may comprise a vehicle message control module . The vehicle message control module may be generally operative to control message processing operations for those messages accessible by the vehicle system .

In one embodiment the vehicle message control module may be notified of the user message received by the message application module . The vehicle message control module may send an event message to the vehicle system via the communication module . In one embodiment the event message may sent as event audio information identified by the vehicle alert profile . The event audio information may represent audio information corresponding to a particular event. For example an event may comprise receiving a message of a given type e.g. an email message and the event audio information may comprise an audio file with audio information e.g. a particular ringtone . The alert profile manager module may retrieve the target audio file and cause a media playback application not shown to begin reproducing the audio information from the audio file as an audio stream. The audio stream may be communicated to the vehicle system over the communication channel for reproduction by the output device e.g. a vehicle speaker .

In one embodiment the vehicle message control module may cause the mobile computing device to notify a user of the user message via the vehicle system by mimicking or emulating an incoming call request for a telephone call session. The mobile computing device may utilize different in band ringing techniques to notify a user of incoming call requests. In band ringing refers to the capability of using audio files from the smart phone to be used a ringtone over the vehicle system when an incoming telephone call is received. For instance once the mobile computing device and the vehicle system are paired to form the communication channel the mobile computing device may receive an incoming telephone call. The alert profile manager module may retrieve an audio file for a given ringtone and begin streaming the ringtone over the communication channel to the output device of the vehicle system . In this case the communication channel operates as a call signaling channel to set up or establish a telephone call between various endpoints. The user hears the ringtone and determines whether to answer the incoming call request by manual or voice commands received by the input device . If the user indicates acceptance of the incoming call request the mobile computing device is informed accordingly and a call session is established between the endpoints. The endpoints may begin communicating media information such as voice information over the communication channel . In this case the communication channel operates as a call media channel.

Similarly the vehicle message control module may utilize such in band ringing techniques to notify a user of the user message . Applying the in band ringing feature to the vehicle message control module when the user message arrives at the message application module the alert profile manager module streams audio information over the communication channel to the vehicle system to announce the arrival of the new user message . This is perceived as an incoming call by the vehicle system and hence the user can choose to read the new user message using the same user interface tools of the vehicle system typically used for handling telephone calls. For example to listen to the new message a user can press an accept call button on the vehicle system . In this manner the in band ringing technique may seamlessly integrate the features offered by the vehicle message application module with existing legacy vehicle systems implemented for the vehicle .

As depicted in the vehicle message application module may comprise a vehicle message control module communicatively coupled to a speech synthesis module . The speech synthesis module may be generally operative to perform TTS operations and STT operations for control information and media information used by the message application module .

The speech synthesis module may implement various speech synthesis techniques to artificially produce or synthesize human speech. A computer system used for this purpose is called a speech synthesizer and can be implemented in software or hardware. A TTS system converts normal language text into speech while other systems render symbolic linguistic representations like phonetic transcriptions into speech. Synthesized speech can be created by concatenating pieces of recorded speech that are stored in a speech database . Systems differ in the size of the stored speech units a system that stores phones or diphones provides the largest output range but may lack clarity. For specific usage domains the storage of entire words or sentences allows for high quality output. Alternatively the speech synthesis module can incorporate a model of the vocal tract and other human voice characteristics to create a completely synthetic voice output.

The speech synthesis module comprises two parts including a front end processor and a back end processor. The front end processor converts raw text containing symbols like numbers and abbreviations into the equivalent of written out words. This process is often called text normalization pre processing or tokenization. The front end processor then assigns phonetic transcriptions to each word and divides and marks the text into prosodic units like phrases clauses and sentences. The process of assigning phonetic transcriptions to words is called text to phoneme or grapheme to phoneme conversion. Phonetic transcriptions and prosody information together make up the symbolic linguistic representation that is output by the front end processor. The back end processor is often referred to as the synthesizer and converts the symbolic linguistic representation into sound.

The speech synthesis module may be operative to convert text information for the user message to mail audio information representing machine synthesized speech. The user message may include various forms of media information including text information . After the vehicle message control module sends the event message to the vehicle system to notify a user of the new user message the user may respond with a manual command or voice command to read the user message . The vehicle system may send a read control directive over the second communication channel . The vehicle message control module may receive the read control directive and send the text information from the user message to the speech synthesis module .

The speech synthesis module may receive the text information from the vehicle message control module and convert the text information to mail audio information . The speech synthesis module may send the mail audio information to the vehicle system over the communication channel via the communication module . The vehicle system may reproduce the mail audio information as audible speech via the I O interface module and the output device .

In addition to synthesizing the text information into human speech the speech synthesis module may also synthesize or convert other media information or media objects from the user message into human speech or speech equivalents. For example if the user message includes a media object such as an image and the image has associated metadata the speech synthesis module may convert the metadata to human speech. Similarly if the user message has attachments such as files the speech synthesis module may synthesize the file names to human speech. Other techniques may be used to convert media information or objects into audio information suitable for a user.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the the logic diagram may establish a first communication channel with a message server at block . For example the communications module of the mobile computing device may establish the first communication channel with the message server via the wireless media . The first communication channel may be established for example over a WWAN system e.g. a cellular radiotelephone system WiMAX system etc. a WLAN system e.g. a WiFi system or other longer range communication systems.

The logic diagram may establish a second communication channel with a vehicle system at block . For example the communications module may establish a second communication channel with the vehicle system via the wireless media or the wired media . The second communication channel may be established for example over a WPAN system such as a Bluetooth system IEEE 1394 FireWire system infra red system or other shorter range communication systems.

The logic diagram may receive a user message over the first communication channel at block . For example the communication module may receive the user message over the first communication channel from the message server . The message server may provide any type of messaging service and in one embodiment provides a UM service. The user message represents any type of message including an email message chat message group chat message SMS message MMS message voice message video message media message and so forth.

The logic diagram may send an event message over the second communication channel at block . For example the message application module may notify the vehicle message control module of the vehicle message application module of the arrival of the user message which is suitable for reproduction using the vehicle system . The vehicle message control module may generate and send the event message over the second communication channel to the vehicle system .

The logic diagram may receive a read control directive over the second communication channel at block . For example the input device of the vehicle system may receive a user command in the form the read control directive and the I O interface module may forward the read control directive to the mobile computing device via the communication modules . The vehicle message control module may receive the read control directive from the communication module .

The logic diagram may synthesize text information from the user message to mail audio information at block . For example the vehicle message control module may notify the speech synthesis module of a read request for the user message and forward the text information from the user message to the speech synthesis module . Additionally or alternatively the speech synthesis module may retrieve the text information directly from the user message . The speech synthesis module may use the speech database to convert the text information to mail audio information representing machine synthesized speech.

The logic diagram may send the audio information over the second communication channel at block . For example the speech synthesis module may send the mail audio information over the second communication channel to the vehicle system .

As shown in the logic diagram may establish a communication channel with a mobile computing device at block . For example the communication module of the vehicle system may establish the second communication channel with the mobile computing device .

The logic diagram may receive event audio information over the communication channel at block . For example the communication module may receive the event message in the form of event audio information over the second communication channel .

The logic diagram may reproduce the event audio information using an output device at block . For example the communication module may forward the event audio information to the I O interface module which reproduces the event audio information as humanly audible signals using the output device . The output device may comprise for example vehicle speakers integrated into the interior of the vehicle cabin or in the vehicle system .

The logic diagram may receive a read control directive from an input device at block . For example the input device of the vehicle system may receive a user command in the form the read control directive from the input device . The read control directive may be generated in response to manual inputs by the user or through voice commands using input buttons or a microphone respectively as the input device .

The logic diagram may send the read control directive over the communication channel at block . For example the I O interface module may forward the read control directive to the mobile computing device via the communication modules . The vehicle message control module may receive the read control directive from the communication module .

The logic diagram may receive mail audio information over the communication channel at block . For example the vehicle message control module may receive the read control directive from the communication module and the speech synthesis module may output the mail audio information to the communication module for transport to the vehicle system via the second communication channel . The communication module may receive the mail audio information and forward it to the I O interface module .

The logic diagram may reproduce the mail audio information using the output device at block . For example the I O interface module may receive the mail audio information and reproduce the mail audio information using the output device such as vehicle speaker.

As previously described in some embodiments the vehicle system may also implement some or all of the features and operations of the vehicle message application module . In this case the vehicle system may convert speech information to control directives for the message application module implemented by the mobile computing device using the STT features of the speech synthesis module implemented by the vehicle system . This may conserve computational or power resources for the mobile computing device along with other advantageous.

Regardless of whether the message application module and or the vehicle message control module is implemented as part of the mobile computing device the vehicle system or another device separate from the mobile computing device or the vehicle system the vehicle message application module may be used to navigate a message interface for the message application module implemented by the mobile computing device or the vehicle system in response to voice commands received from the input device and sent over the second communications channel . This may enhance the convenience and accessibility of the message application module through the vehicle system whenever a user is within the interior cabin of the vehicle . Examples of the voice commands representing control directives to navigate a message interface for the message application module implemented by the mobile computing device may include without limitation reading a message creating a message deleting a message modifying a message sending a message forwarding a message replying to a message opening an attachment reading an attachment storing an attachment forwarding an attachment and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

By way of example assume a user may desire to send a response to the incoming user message or compose a new email message. The user may speak various voice commands such as compose mail or respond to mail or forward mail to initiate the corresponding email operations using the message application module . The vehicle message application module may receive the spoken commands via the input device and convert the spoken commands into the appropriate message control directives and forward to the mobile computing device over the communication channel for processing by the message application module . Additionally or alternative the vehicle message application module and or the I O interface module may send captured voice signals directly to the mobile computing device over the communication channel and the speech synthesis module of the vehicle message application module implemented by the mobile computing device may interpret the voice commands and convert into the appropriate message control directive.

Once the message application module receives the given message control directive and processes the user message or a new user message accordingly the message application module may notify the user using a similar notification technique previously described. The user may then begin composing content for an email message through dictation using spoken human language which is captured by the input device and converted to text using various common STT techniques. The STT techniques may be implemented by the vehicle system the mobile computing device or both. The message application module may receive the content for the email message and process accordingly using conventional email handling techniques. In this manner a user may be able to control navigate and utilize the message operations provided by the message application module entirely using natural human speech thereby facilitating hands free email operations when operating the vehicle .

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor e.g. similar to the radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video ANV devices that support AnV capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of AnV devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . The OS and the application programs may be the same or similar to the application module described with reference to . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include the vehicle message application module . The vehicle message application module may the same or similar to the vehicle message application module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

