---

title: Seismic method for vehicle detection and vehicle weight classification
abstract: A system is provided for detecting the passage of vehicles and the classification thereof by weight using geophone outputs and a unique density measurement in which the number of peaks of the geophone signal above a predetermined threshold over a number of time frames indicates the presence of a vehicle, with the number of time frames in which the density exceeds the threshold indicating whether the vehicle is a heavy vehicle such as a tank, or a light vehicle such as a car, with the threshold eliminating both manmade and natural noise, as well as distinguishing seismic vibrations due to personnel and animals. In one embodiment, various thresholds are utilized to detect the onset of vehicle presence and the end of the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08405524&OS=08405524&RS=08405524
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08405524
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. H94003 05 C 0507. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to the detection and the classification of vehicles or more particularly to the utilization of low cost low power consumptive geophones for detection and classification purposes.

In the past cameras and radars have been used to detect troop movements and presence of vehicles be they light weight vehicles or tanks and bulldozers.

In order to surveil a given area these sensors are scattered about with the sensor providing information as to its location and sensed value. However camera and radar sensors require large amounts of power both for the sensing operation and for the transmitting operation.

These sensors are normally battery powered and these types of sensors may last less than a day. On the other hand if one is seeking to detect vehicles using a geophone geophones are very long lifetime devices because the geophone does not consume power. It is noted that geophones operate with a moving coil within a magnet so that the geophone generates its own electricity when the surface to which it is attached vibrates or shakes. Thus geophones are in essence self powered.

However power is an issue when processing the output of geophones to determine that a target of interest exists. The high power consumption is in part due to the very large number of signals coming out of the transducer and in the past there has been a high computational load associated with characterizing geophone signals.

However if geophones can be utilized then in terms of longevity one has a large advantage in terms of battery life that sensors can be deployed and be in place for long periods of time.

It has been thought that geophones do not have output signal characteristics that are distinct enough to be able to characterize what is shaking the ground. Certainly the geophone output is nowhere near as distinct as a camera image where one could see a picture and therefore determine not only that what is detected is a vehicle but what type of vehicle it is. Thus picking out what constitutes a vehicle is quite subtle when utilizing geophone signals.

As a result geophones were not utilized to detect vehicles. Nor were they utilized to detect the size of a vehicle or to characterize a vehicle for instance as being a passenger vehicle or a military vehicle.

It will be appreciated that geophones fundamentally measure ground vibration usually in a frequency range between 15 hertz to 100 hertz. Because they are very low frequency signals the signatures of different weight vehicles have not heretofore offered enough information for vehicle detection and identity.

The reason that geophones have not been particularly useful up until the present time in determining the identity of the seismic source is that there are a large number of different objects which shake the ground. Not only can the ground shaking be produced by vehicles wind blowing through a stand of trees causes the ground to shake thus producing a local seismic phenomenon unrelated to vehicle detection. Also electrical generators for example generate seismic noise which complicates vehicle detection due to the panoply of seismic noise sources both natural and manmade.

For instance assuming that there is a power outage in the area diesel generators may kick in causing significant ground vibration. Thus historically there has not been much benefit seen for using geophones. If a method could be provided that uses geophones for detecting and classifying vehicles then their low cost self power and low observability become attractive especially since one can simply bury them in the ground to provide for stealthy surveillance.

Aside from the very low power consumption of the geophones it is also desirable in any system to provide processors which minimize battery drain. It is noted that divide by operations consume a considerable amount of power due to the number of floating point operations involved. Thus processing which simply implements a mathematical formula for processing sensor outputs often results in too large a computational load.

Central to the subject invention is the unitization of geophones and a unique characteristic of the seismic signature of vehicles exclusive of nearby personnel or other intermittent environmentally generated interference such as wind. Thus geophone outputs are used to provide for a low cost low power drain system for sensing vehicles and classifying them.

In one embodiment the geophones are in constant service with their outputs being polled periodically for instance every two seconds to generate a unique statistic which is used to characterize the source of the sensed vibrations. The statistic utilized is the density of the vibration signature referred heretofore as the density statistic. This corresponds to the number of peaks per time frame that exist above a given threshold. For those sources of vibration that have intermittent peaks the number of peaks they generate do not exceed a threshold number of peaks and are disregarded. These intermittent peaks could be environmentally produced vibrations of the ground such as by the wind or could be from manmade noise.

However it has been found that for a vehicle approaching a geophone there are a large number of regular peaks which if they exceed a predetermined threshold indicate the presence of the vehicle.

This type of system discriminates against for instance vibration from tree rattling due to the wind blowing through a stand of trees. This is because the intermittent vibrations would not significantly accumulate over time.

On the other hand for vehicles there will be a large number of detected vibration peaks as the vehicle approaches. What is involved in the subject invention is counting how many peaks are above a predetermined threshold for a given sample frame for instance of two seconds and then seeing how the number of peaks changes over time.

The counting of peaks exceeding a threshold over a given set of time periods eliminates vibrational noise caused by non vehicle sources.

However even when using the above unique density statistic it has been found that one of the biggest issues is to separate out vehicles from personnel.

While detecting vehicle presence and type is central to the subject invention it is also important that the subject system be able to simultaneously detect personnel and vehicles. To do this it is important to recognize that people generate impulsive energy as a seismic signal but at a much lower frequency rate for instance 2 hertz which is a very predictable signature. Note that the 2 Hz rate is based primarily on the human anatomy. In one embodiment filters are utilized to filter out the 2 hertz signals to detect the movement of personnel. The subject system is effective to distinguish personnel from vehicles because it is noted that personnel who are unaware of the presence of geophones provide impulsive spikes that are very regular so that surveillance using geophones can detect and reject these low frequency regular spikes. If the geophones were visible people might want to vary their gate to avoid detection.

Note also that when using geophones a large issue is that the seismic background threshold depends on the ground that one is measuring with vibration amplitudes varying by as much as 50 dB.

Thus as part of the subject invention there needs to be a way to be able to arrive at a reliable energy threshold from which one can form density statistics in terms of vibration peaks. Thus one needs to be able to characterize the background level.

More particularly in the subject invention geophones are utilized to measure vibrations of the ground. The geophone output is processed in terms of measuring peaks above a predetermined threshold. By measuring density in terms of the number of peaks that exist above a threshold for a given time frame one provides a low computational cost approach to vehicle detection and classification.

To provide for an appropriate threshold in one embodiment a standard deviation is used to establish a background. In a preferred embodiment in order to maintain a low computational cost one estimates the standard deviation using an exponential average over time. This is provided by the following approach for computing the background signal level 

In one embodiment the subject system uses the standard deviation of the signal as a surrogate for the background signal level. Given a two second signal sampled at 256 Hz 

The problem with this approach for a low power microcontroller is that one would like to avoid computing square roots if at all possible. Therefore to estimate this quantity one computes 

Because 512 is a power of 2 instead of dividing by 512 one can obtain the result using a bit shift. As a result this estimate uses only adds and multiplies and can be implemented on a low power microcontroller.

To improve fidelity of the estimate one exponentially averages the background value over time. This is accomplished via  avg estimate 1 128  estimate 127 avg estimate 1 

As before 128 is a power of 2 so the division by 128 can be accomplished using a bit shift. Because this formula is recursive one has to initialize the average background estimate appropriately. In one embodiment this is done during the first 20 seconds of operation by defining the background estimate to be the smallest computed two second estimate observed during that period.

It is noted that with the subject algorithm and the stealthy placement of the geophones one is able to detect a vehicle as opposed to individuals natural noise and manmade noise. The key to the subject invention is thus the above algorithm.

Note that the subject system takes into account the various characteristics of the ground and provides a background measurement for a given area from which is derived a threshold above which the peaks are measured. In one embodiment of the subject invention the background measurement adapts over time. Thus for example if one were unlucky enough to deploy the geophones and immediately have a vehicle present the adaption over time permits detection of the vehicle.

Thus the background measurement is not a static measurement of the background but is a measurement over some time window that essentially moves out. In one embodiment the above exponential average approach is utilized in which one keeps adding new measurements and then weights the old measurements less.

Also key to the subject measurement is the density statistic. It is one of the geophone signature attributes that has been discovered that the number of peaks over a time interval is relatively indifferent to the environment in which the sensor find itself.

In one embodiment one computes the background level and then looks for samples of the geophone signals exhibiting peaks that for instance exceed four multiples of the background level over a fixed time period for instance a two second time period. One then counts the number of peaks that exceed the threshold over that time period.

If the wind is blowing through the trees or if the geophone is far removed from the vehicle then one might not see any peaks when a vehicle starts approaching. As the vehicle comes closer it has been found that a good number of peaks are observed and the subject system starts scoring frames of the signal based on the number of peaks that one sees and how dense the peaks are in a given two second time frame.

Thus density does not mean an area under a curve but rather the number of peaks exceeding the threshold in a time frame.

For a given two second frame one might have a density score for that frame big enough to trigger vehicle detection. However one characteristic of a vehicle is that since it is moving it will continue to generate impulses and start to build up a dense signal. Thus eventually one has a signal that has a large number of peaks that are exceeding the threshold over time.

For instance in one embodiment four frames are used in the analysis such that if the density statistic exceeds the threshold for four two second frames one declares that a vehicle is present. This would amount to eight seconds of vehicle movement. The eight second time period is not a problem because typically the geophones start to see vehicles at least 50 meters out. Even if a vehicle is moving a high rate of speed it will still be detected in the 8 second interval. This is because if a vehicle is traveling at a high rate of speed it produces more vibration and thus more and higher peaks that exceed the threshold. This means that the high peak value will be detected sooner so as to be observable for instance in the second window e.g. within 4 seconds.

Another aspect of the subject invention is the ability to classify whether or not the vehicle is a heavy vehicle such as a tank or a bulldozer or a light passenger carrying vehicle such as a HMMWV. In one embodiment the lighter vehicles are distinguished because their density statistic quickly reverses back to ambient. If one measures the number of time periods the peaks exceed the threshold one can distinguish heavy vehicles from light vehicles. This is because while lighter vehicles might not exceed the given threshold for the window required as time moves on the light vehicles will be detected because their density characteristic quickly goes back to some quiescent state.

Thus while there is not much difference per two second time frame in the output of a sensor sensing a heavy vehicle versus a light vehicle in view of the fact that there will be a lot of peaks spikes or impulsive energy within a given two second time frame it is a question of for how long the peaks are sustained. For instance a tank would have detectable peaks for a much longer period of time than a light vehicle and one would hear a tank a lot further away than a car. Thus one would have a much longer time period where one would see the density statistic exceeding the threshold. For lighter vehicles the opposite is true.

In fact after collecting a large amount of data for different vehicles it was found that there is a clear demarcation between how long it takes for a heavier vehicle type to pass and how many frames the density statistic would have to exceed the threshold versus how long it would take for a lighter car. Thus the number of time periods in which the peaks exceed the threshold is an indication of the weight of the vehicle.

In summary a system is provided for detecting the passage of vehicles and the classification thereof by weight using geophone outputs and a unique density measurement in which the number of peaks of the geophone signal above a predetermined threshold over a number of time frames indicates the presence of a vehicle with the number of time frames in which the density exceeds the threshold indicating whether the vehicle is a heavy vehicle such as a tank or a light vehicle such as a car with the threshold eliminating both manmade and natural noise as well as distinguishing seismic vibrations due to personnel and animals. In one embodiment various thresholds are utilized to detect the onset of vehicle presence and the end of the event.

Referring now to this figure shows a representative vehicle pass by as collected using a cube seismic sensor. As shown in the figure there is a steady and large increase in signal amplitude up until the Closest Point of Approach CPA at which point there is a steady decrease in the signal amplitude. If one divides the signal in time into 2 second intervals one can compute a related statistic heretofore called the density statistic that reflects the number of samples in each 2 second frame that are at least a certain number of multiples above the computed background noise level. illustrates the density statistic for a vehicle pass by an ambient period and a personnel pass by. As expected the vehicle pass by results in a sizable number of samples well above the background level whereas the ambient and personnel data do not exhibit such large density values. This is an important observation especially with respect to the signature of a person walking near the sensor. While the seismic signature of a walker will invariably result in a received signal with significant energy the impulsive nature of footsteps do not result in the same type of loud sustained amplitude signal obtained when a vehicle passes by a seismic sensor. We would similarly expect other impulsive or intermittent environmental phenomena such as a wind or wildlife to generate lower density values as compared with that generated by vehicles.

The density statistic also exhibits an ability to discern vehicles of different weight classes. shows a passenger vehicle car pass by and a tank pass by as well as their respective densities. The tank signature is visible for a much longer period of time than the passenger vehicle which is not surprising considering the differences between the two types of vehicles. Correspondingly the number of 2 second frames containing an elevated density statistic is much greater with the tank data than with the passenger vehicle data. Because of this one can use the density statistic to classify vehicles.

There are a number of details that need to be considered in a real time implementation of the described vehicle detection algorithm. While it is easy to visualize the background noise level it is not as straightforward to compute a value for that level with an actual signal in real time. The standard deviation is a reasonable proxy for the background noise level over a long period of time but the computation of the standard deviation is too costly for implementation on the seismic sensor. To solve this issue one determines the background noise level using a computed estimate of the standard deviation that is exponentially averaged over time.

With the background noise level established a set of thresholds must be determined. While one certainly needs detection and classification thresholds one also needs thresholds that tell us when a vehicle pass by has concluded since there may be some ambiguity with vehicles changing speeds as they pass by the sensor. The complete set of thresholds are a density detection threshold a lower light vehicle threshold an upper light vehicle threshold a lower heavy vehicle threshold a density vehicle event threshold and a vehicle event end threshold.

The density detection threshold defines the minimum density level in a 2 second time frame required to trigger a possible vehicle alert. Note that an alert is not reported however until the lower light vehicle threshold has been exceeded. Once the density level detection threshold has been exceeded a possible vehicle event is defined. All density computations in subsequent 2 second frames are attributed to the current event until the density falls below the density vehicle event threshold for a certain number of successive frames. The threshold defining this number of quiet successive frames is termed the vehicle event end threshold and at this point the current event is considered to have ended.

Within an event a classification counter is established that adds up the number of 2 second frames where the density has exceeded the density detection threshold. When this counter exceeds the lower light vehicle threshold a vehicle detection alert is generated. The classification counter continues to accumulate the total number of frames where the density detection threshold has been exceeded until the vehicle event has ended. If at the conclusion of the current vehicle event the classification counter is less than the upper light vehicle threshold a classification of light vehicle is reported. If during the vehicle event the classification counter exceeds the lower heavy vehicle threshold a classification of heavy vehicle is reported. Note that in the case of a heavy vehicle a classification report is generated prior to the end of the current vehicle event.

If the classification counter falls in between the upper light vehicle threshold and the lower heavy threshold at the end of a vehicle event a report of vehicle of unknown weight is generated. The expected frequency of this type of report is given in the Algorithm Performance section of this document.

The following relates to tests of the subject system. What is detailed is the testing that illustrates the performance of the vehicle detection algorithm. All reported numbers are based on the post processing of data recorded by sensors at different field tests i.e. results were not generated from real time performance . The algorithm was tested using data collected from 3 different sensor types. The first sensor type was a cube seismic sensor with internal Geospace Corp GS 14 geophone. The second sensor type was a cube seismic sensor with a tethered Geospace Corp GS 20 geophone. The third sensor type was a BAE Systems MIUGS sensor with a tethered GS 14 geophone. For the MIUGS sensors the data was resampled to match the cube seismic sensor sampling rate of 256 Hz. The use of the MIUGS sensor data was necessitated by the lack of recorded military vehicle data using the cube seismic sensor.

This field test was a two day test in Merrimack N.H. during the daytime hours. The weather was mild for this time of year in New Hampshire. On the first day there was a high temperature of 58 degrees and an average wind speed of 6 mph with gusts as high as 33 mph. On the second day it was a bit less windy with a similarly high temperature of 58 degrees and an average wind speed of 3 mph with gusts as high as 20 mph. The seismic sensors were set up around the central intersection on the range as shown in .

Sensors contained internal GS 14 geophones while Sensor labeled Spike had a tethered GS 20 geophone attached to it.

The field test consisted of vehicle and personnel pass bys on the two roads as well as ambient periods collected throughout the day. The vehicles included in this data collection were a Toyota Corolla a Ford F 150 pickup truck an empty 2.5 Ton military truck as well as a few different unscripted SUVs. The data was recorded on co located Linux based Sony PCs running a custom data logging application and automatically backed up every 10 minutes via an 802.11b wireless network to a remote Linux based PC stationed approximately 200 ft south of Sonyl .

A second field test was a two day test conducted at Area M in Fort Huachuca Ariz. during the daytime hours. The weather was normal for Fort Huachuca at this time of year. On the first day temperatures ranged from 55 to 68 degrees during the test with 4 mph winds and gusts up to 12 mph. On the second day temperatures were in a similar range with 4 mph winds and gusts up to 8 mph. The seismic sensors were set up 3 different locations during the field test. The first location was alongside a dirt road and is depicted in .

The test configuration consisted of cube seismic sensors with internal GS 14 geophones cube was not functional during this part of the field test . Testing at this location consisted of various passenger vehicle and personnel pass bys on the dirt road as well as ambient periods collected throughout the day. The vehicles included in this data collection were a Jeep Wrangler a small Nissan pickup truck an ATV and a dirt bike. The data was recorded on co located Linux based Sony PCs running a custom data logging application and automatically backed up every 10 minutes via an 802.11b wireless network to a remote Linux based PC stationed approximately 100 ft south of Sony .

The second location at Fort Huachuca was in a gully located approximately 0.7 km east of the dirt road and was not generally accessible by vehicle. As such only personnel pass bys and ambient periods were collected. The test layout for this location is shown in .

The test configuration consisted of 2 cube seismic sensors with internal GS 14 geophones as well as 2 real time processing cube sensors running different versions of a personnel algorithm.

The third location at Fort Huachuca was located alongside a paved road about 300 m SSE of the first location. Because of the prevalence of unscripted vehicles on this road no personnel pass bys were performed at this location. The test layout for this location is shown in .

The test configuration consisted of 3 cube seismic sensors with internal GS 14 geophones and 1 cube seismic sensor with a tethered GS 20 geophone. The vehicles included in this data collection were a Jeep Wrangler a small Nissan pickup truck as well as several unscripted passenger vehicles.

The MIUGS data used in algorithm development and validation was collected earlier at Eglin AFB during the nighttime hours. This data collection included a variety of vehicle and personnel pass bys. The test included more than 10 different military vehicles e.g. tanks personnel carriers missile launchers and 10 different passenger vehicles. Data was collected on sensors using tethered GS 14 geophones. Sensors were located either 30 m or 75 m from the road depending on the particular test configuration.

Table 1 lists the probability of detection pD and the probability of false alarm pFA for each sensor first day . As seen in the table the vehicle detection algorithm combines a high probability of detection with a low false alarm rate.

Table 5 lists the probability of detection pD and the probability of false alarm pFA for each sensor on the first day of the test. While at first glance the results may seem mixed it turns out that the poorly behaving sensors appear to be malfunctioning resulting in poor seismic signal quality. shows a plot of a vehicle pass by as received at the 6 different sensors. Sensor is clearly not properly receiving the seismic signal present during that time period. Sensor is exhibiting a reduced sensitivity especially when compared to sensors and . This explains its lower probability of detection. The rationale behind the poor performance of Sensor is a bit more subtle. shows a plot of an ambient period as received at the 6 sensors on the first day of Test B. During the ambient period Sensor is picking up noticeably more noise than any other sensor. In particular notice that Sensor which is co located with Sensor does not receive the high energy interference that Sensor is exhibiting. Despite the reduced gain of Sensor we would still expect the largest amplitudes to occur simultaneously on both sensors. Also notice that most of the sensors exhibit periodic spikes occurring every 0.8 seconds presumably due to RF interference. Limiting our focus to Sensors and we see a high probability of detection with a low false alarm rate.

Table 6 shows the classification confusion matrix first day . The algorithm demonstrates consistently good performance on the three types of data collected.

Table 8 lists the probability of detection pD and the probability of false alarm pFA for each sensor on the second day at the paved road site. The results again show some inconsistency with respect to probability of detection. However a study of the signal quality again reveals issues with the lesser performing sensors. shows the signals received by the sensors during a vehicle pass by Test B second day . As seen in the figure Sensors and both exhibit significant RF interference such that the amplitudes of the RF spikes are larger than the seismic signature of the vehicle. This reduces the density statistic by artificially increasing the measured background noise level which will lead to decreased detection performance. Sensors and both with reasonable signal quality demonstrate excellent detection performance at this test location.

Table 9 shows the classification confusion matrix for the second day at the paved road site. The algorithm demonstrates consistently good performance on the two types of data collected.

The focus here is on classification performance as the detection performance has already been well documented through testing on the cube seismic sensor hardware. Table 10 shows the confusion matrix for the MIUGS data. If the unknown category is included in the percent correct tabulation the algorithm scores well with light vehicles and fair with heavy vehicles. However a declaration of Unknown could also be considered an ambiguous answer rather than an incorrect answer. With this viewpoint that the algorithm has to get the classification category wrong to have a decision counted against it the performance on light vehicles is excellent and the performance on heavy vehicles is satisfactory.

The data presented demonstrates the utility of a vehicle detection algorithm derived from the density statistic. The algorithm exhibited a high probability of detection combined with a low false alarm rate on variety of data sets collected on 3 different sensor types. Furthermore this performance was established at locations with differing geological properties proving that the approach is sufficiently general. The above also establishes the use of the density statistic to classify weight classes of different types of vehicles. Using the MIUGS data the system was able to distinguish between heavy military vehicles such as tanks and lighter commercial vehicles like cars. Given the diversity of data and sensor types used in development and testing the subject vehicle detection classification approach is well suited for a seismic unattended ground sensor system.

Referring now to the subject system for detecting vehicle passage and vehicle weight includes a geophone coupled to a signal amplifier in turn coupled to an analog to digital converter which is coupled to a low power microcontroller . The microcontroller is powered by a battery and a GPS receiver has its geo location output coupled to the microcontroller to be able to pinpoint the location of the geophone.

The output of the low power microcontroller is coupled to an RF transmitter which transmits the information from the microcontroller out to an antenna .

As stated above it is the purpose of the microcontroller to process the output of a geophone so as to first determine a background threshold and then to determine both the existence of a vehicle passing by and its weight.

As mentioned above the geophone does not consume any battery power whereas the microcontroller is operated in a low power regime in which all calculations are done without use of floating point operations.

The system described in is thus one which is exceedingly low power consumptive and can with the subject algorithm provide a robust indication of the passage of a vehicle through seismic signatures as well as to provide a gross weight classification as to whether the vehicle is a heavy vehicle such as a tank or a light vehicle such as a car.

As described above the system is able to distinguish footsteps and both naturally occurring and manmade seismic sources. Vehicle detection is accomplished through the utilization of a unique characteristic of the geophone output to vehicle vibrations namely a count of the number of seismic peaks above a threshold in one or more timeframes. In one embodiment the threshold is adaptive with the threshold eliminating naturally produced and manmade noise that is not associated with a vehicle.

Additionally the sampling of the geophone is done in time frames and the number of peaks existing above the threshold not only indicates the presence of a vehicle pass by but also the weight of the vehicle by keeping track of the timeframes in which the threshold is exceeded. Thus the number of counts in a number of successive time frames indicates not only the presence of a vehicle but also its weight as described above.

Referring now to what is shown is a flow chart for the seismic method for detection and vehicle weight classification. As illustrated at a number of analog to digital samples of the geophone output with a signal frame are collected with the mean of the signal frame removed at . With the mean removed the signal frame background is computed at and with the background computed the background signal average is updated at .

As illustrated at the density statistic includes a count signal developed for counting the samples above the background threshold which in one embodiment is a multiple of the background average. If the count exceeds the threshold this indicates the presence of a vehicle and an event counter is incremented. With the incrementing of event counter . When the event counter exceeds a preset threshold the detection of a vehicle is declared as shown at and the classifier counter is incremented.

As illustrated at when the class count exceeds a threshold indicating the presence of a heavy vehicle as illustrated at the presence of a heavy vehicle is declared. If the class count does not exceed the heavy vehicle threshold then there is an indication of a light vehicle or the inability to detect what kind of vehicle exists here illustrated by arrow .

If the count signal samples above the threshold are fewer than those that indicate the presence of a vehicle then a quiet counter is incremented. If the quiet count exceeds a threshold as illustrated at then the counters are reset and a classification is declared if any is possible as shown at .

If the quiet count does not exceed a predetermined threshold as illustrated at the system waits for the next signal frames as illustrated at . Likewise if the counters are reset as illustrated by a signal on arrow then the system again waits for another signal frame.

The calculation and definition of the thresholds utilized have been described hereinbefore with it being noted that the quiescent background threshold is different than the quiet count threshold.

