---

title: Wavelength selectable laser systems and related methods
abstract: Laser systems and related methods are provided. In this regard, a representative laser system includes: a laser diode array that generates light; a first crystal having a cavity; an optical element operative to focus the generated light onto the first crystal such that the light generates a high-power circulating beam within the cavity; a second crystal positioned with respect to the first crystal such that the frequency of the high-power circulating beam is doubled; and a first coating applied to the first crystal and second coating applied to the second crystal, the first coating and the second coating being operative to cause at least a portion of the beam to be emitted within a particular wavelength range of the generated light.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315283&OS=08315283&RS=08315283
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08315283
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080723
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Many bio molecules absorb light in the UV range and fluoresce under the beam of a laser. Because of this attribute UV optical lasers can be used in analytical devices for the biotechnology pharmaceutical and medical markets solid state white lighting sterilization and disinfectant devices and water purification systems. It has been a longstanding goal to shrink the large and expensive lasers that are currently used in bio agent detection systems.

The wavelength range of 337.5 nanometers nm to 450 nm hereinafter the wavelength range is of interest in the field of spectroscopy for the detection of proteins such as tryptophan Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide NADH and flavin compounds. However there exists a lack of selectable wavelength laser sources for emitting light in this wavelength range. Note that a selectable wavelength laser refers to a laser for which the user can select the wavelength of the emission during the manufacturing process.

Indium Gallium Nitride InGaN lasers and Aluminum Gallium Nitride AlGaN lasers are capable of emitting continuous and pulsed light in this wavelength range. However InGaN AlGaN lasers are costly to produce.

Previously emerald lasers have been made and used at the wavelength of 765 nm. However the application of such lasers has historically been hampered by the need for large high quality crystals that are slowly grown by a hydrothermal method and pumped by high power flash lamps.

An example of an emerald laser is disclosed in CW Laser pumped Emerald Laser by Shand et al IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics Vol. QE 20 No. 2 February 1984 wherein a continuous wave CW laser pumped emerald laser is described using an emerald sample having a 2.8 mm length and 3.8 5.1 mm cross section with 1.8 atm percent Cr pumped longitudinally by a CW laser at 647.1 nm. The fraction of pump photons converted into laser photons or quantum efficiency was 69 percent which the author attributed to optical loses in the cavity. The output laser wavelength was 765 nm and was polarized parallel to the 5.1 mm sample edge which contained a projection of the c axis. The observed tuning range of the emerald laser was reported as 728.8 809.0 nm which did not cover the entire fluorescence range of emerald 700 850 nm a fact that the author attributed to the excited state absorption of the laser photons. Another publication entitled A Tunable Emerald Laser by Shand et al. IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics Vol. QE 18 No. 11 February 1982 discloses a laser oscillator made with a 19 4 mm diameter rod with the c axis at approximately 45 degrees to the rod axes. The optical cavity was formed with a high reflector and a 95 percent reflectivity output coupler. The described laser was reported as having emitted 6.8 mJ at 757.4 nm. The laser had large loses approximately 0.11 cm presumably due to the beam breakup which was attributed to planes in the crystal having slightly different indexes of refraction. In the article entitled Highly Efficient Emerald Laser by Lai Journal of the Optical Society of America B Vol. 4 No. 8 August 1987 an emerald laser is described with peak emission cross section of 3.1 10cmat room temperature. A 76 laser quantum yield was measured with lasing at 768 nm.

In the past efforts have been made to provide for doubling crystals. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 982 405 to Zayhowski et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Efforts have also been made to provide semiconductor laser pumped solid state lasers with an increased focus towards miniaturization increasing the output power and improving beam quality. An example of a laser diode pumped solid state laser is shown for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 341 1390 to Baer et al. hereby incorporated by reference Baer et al. discloses the use of a neodymium or other rare earth doped solid state RE solid laser which is pumped by a matched high efficiency laser diode. The intra cavity frequency doubled RE solid assembly of Baer et al. produces a laser beam output in the visible spectrum near infrared. A further example of a laser pumped solid state laser is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6 341 139 to Ohtsuka et al. hereby incorporated by reference wherein a semiconductor laser pumped solid state laser includes a solid state laser medium doped with a rare earth element such as neodymium and a semiconductor laser which emits a pumping laser beam for pumping the solid state laser medium.

This invention describes a new method of attaining continuous CW ultraviolet laser emission from 337.5 nm to 450 nm in a very compact format. Laser systems and methods are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of a laser system comprises a laser diode array that generates light a first crystal having a cavity an optical element operative to focus the generated light onto the first crystal such that the light generates a high power circulating beam within the cavity a second crystal positioned with respect to the first crystal such that the frequency of the high power circulating beam is doubled and a first coating applied to the first crystal and second coating applied to the second crystal the first coating and the second coating being operative to cause at least a portion of the beam to be emitted within a particular wavelength range of the generated light.

Another exemplary embodiment of a laser system comprises a laser diode array that generates light a first crystal an optical element operative to focus the generated light onto the first crystal such that the light generates a high power circulating beam within the cavity a first coating applied to the first crystal a second crystal positioned with respect to the first crystal such that the frequency of the high power circulating beam is doubled and a second coating applied to the second crystal the second coating being operative to cause at least a portion of the beam to be emitted as ultraviolet light within a wavelength range of between approximately 337.5 nm and 450 nm.

An exemplary embodiment of a method can be broadly summarized by the following steps generating light focusing the generated light onto a first crystal via an optical device exciting the atoms in the first crystal thereby generating a high power circulating beam doubling the frequency of the high power circulating beam via a second crystal bonded to the first crystal and emitting a portion of the beam based upon a first coating and a second coating on the first and second crystals respectively.

One embodiment of the present invention utilizes a very small high optical quality emerald crystal that is commercially available and is pumped by a commercially available 650 nm red diode laser array. The present invention may be used for light shows pathogen detection encryption and fluorescence studies.

The present invention takes the tunable aspect and high gain high chromium concentration of emerald and transforms it from an expensive difficult to fabricate device into a useful cost effective device using diode pumped solid state laser DPSS construction technology. The present invention utilizes in a novel manner a 650 nm diode laser array for a pump laser for emerald.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for attaining continuous CW and Q switched pulsed ultraviolet UV laser emission in the 337.5 nm to 450 nm wavelength range hereinafter the wavelength range . Note that a continuous wave laser refers to a laser that emits light having a constant amplitude and constant frequency whereas a Q switched laser refers to a laser that emits pulsed light. In some embodiments the system comprises an emerald crystal excited by a laser array that produces light in the wavelength range.

In one embodiment crystal is a 2 millimeter mm square 2.5 mm long crystal of chromium doped hydrothermally grown synthetic beryl BeAl SiO Cr commonly known as emerald. Additionally crystal is a beta BaBO BBO or a LiBO LBO frequency doubling crystal which is also about 2 mm square and about 2.5 mm long.

The emerald crystal has bonded to it the beta BaBO BBO or a LiBO LBO frequency doubling crystal set up in an intracavity frequency doubling configuration to increase efficiency. Crystal and crystal are placed adjacent to each other and may be bonded together with a bonding substance such as a cyanoacrylate optical adhesive for example. The emerald crystal is coated at the rear face with high reflection coatings from 729 nm to 809 nm and from 364 nm to 405 nm chosen to optimize reflection or transmission for the desired emission wavelength. An antireflection coating at 650 nm is also deposited on the rear face to optimize coupling of the pump laser into the emerald crystal. In a first embodiment coating may be composed of alternating layers of dielectrics such as SiOand MgF. The emerald crystal is coated on the front emitting face with high reflection coatings from 729 nm to 809 nm and antireflection coatings from 364 nm to 405 nm also composed of SiOand MgF. The laser is effectively tuned by selecting the proper coating thicknesses that maximize intracavity power energy for the fundamental wavelength and provide maximum transmission for the harmonic output wavelength desired. This is standard established practice in laser mirror fabrication technology. The laser is pumped by a 500 mW 650 nm diode laser array focused by a lens into the rear of the crystal . While the laser is pumped by the diode laser a high power circulating beam exists within the cavity . The second harmonic frequency emerges through the output coating . The peak of the output spectrum lies at approximately 382.5 nm but is wavelength selectable from 364 nm to 405 nm with decreased output efficiency toward the upper and lower wavelength limit.

In one embodiment the coating comprises a high reflection coating from 729 nm to 809 nm chosen to optimize reflection or transmission for the desired emission wavelength and an antireflection coating at 650 nm to optimize coupling laser light with crystal . In addition in one embodiment crystal is coated on its emitting face with a coating which may be composed of alternating layers of dielectrics such as SiOand MgFcomprising a high reflection coating from 729 nm to 809 nm and an antireflection coating from 364 nm to 405 nm.

Notably the laser device is manually tuned by selecting coating thicknesses wavelengths capable of producing output wavelength desired. To allow escape of the 375 nm UV light antireflection coatings for 375 nm are deposited on surface .

The laser device further comprises a heat sink to which crystal is mounted. In one embodiment the heat sink is a thermoelectrically Peltier temperature controlled heat sink.

The laser device further comprises and is pumped by a laser diode array . Note that pumped refers to the excitation of atoms in crystal by light produced by laser diode array and introduced to crystal . In one embodiment the laser diode array is a 500 mW 650 nm red diode laser array and the light emitted from the array is focused onto crystal and through the coating by an optical element such as a lens for example. When powered the laser diode array produces the light indicated by reference line .

In the publication entitled Highly Efficient Emerald Laser by S. T. Lai Journal Optical Society of America the high efficiency of a Cr doped emerald laser is discussed. The laser efficiency is analyzed according to three aspects of laser operation a absorption of the pump light followed by b fluorescence and stimulated emission and c laser action. Regarding absorption the energy levels of the optically active Cr ions are known. Two broad absorption bands Tand T in emerald cover significant portions of the visible spectrum as shown in . The absorption cross sections were calculated based on Cr concentration measured by neutron activation method. The peak absorption cross sections of the Tband polarized along the c axis and polarized perpendicular toe the c axis are 8.26 10cmat 650 nm and 5.6 10cmat 600 nm. Emerald has the capacity to incorporate high Cr concentrations up to 5 without compromising crystal quality. It is desirable to fabricate the crystal with as high a concentration of the active chromium dopant as possible. With respect to fluorescence of the emerald laser as described in the publication entitled Highly Efficient Emerald Laser by S. T. Lai Journal Optical Society of America the six fold coordinated oxygen bonds at the Cr ion distorted from a perfect octahedron and there is only a single type of Cr site in emerald unlike in some Cr doped laser materials such as SrAlFin which some of the sites are nonradiative which results in lower efficiency. Because of the low laser threshold and high quantum yield in laser pumped emerald lasers there is a resulting efficiency comparable to that of alexandrite which has a quantum efficiency of about 95 . As to laser action in emerald lasers the lower bound of the laser tuning range 720 nm is limited by the ground state absorption process. The round trip laser loss excluding the excited state absorption ESA of a high efficient emerald laser is 0.4 cm as reported in the publication entitled Highly Efficient Emerald Laser by S. T. Lai Journal Optical Society of America.

In the absorption cross section versus wavelength is shown. Curve shows the absorption cross section parallel to the c axis optical axis curve shows the absorption cross section perpendicular to the c axis of the emerald crystal The emerald crystal is oriented so that the polarized emission from the 650 nm pump laser array vertical line at 650 nm as shown in is parallel to the c axis of the emerald crystal. This allows maximum absorption of the 650 nm pump radiation. An absorption peak occurs at 650 nm as shown in . Commercially available 650 nm laser diodes are ideally suited for the laser array .

When the light from the pump laser array indicated by reference line enters crystal the crystals and generate a high power circulating beam within a cavity shown by the dual pointed arrow formed by the emerald gain medium and the bonded nonlinear UV generating medium. A second harmonic frequency beam of the high power beam emerges through the coating as represented by the arrow .

In one embodiment the amplitude peak of the spectrum of the beam lies at approximately 382.5 nm but the beam s wavelength is selectable from 364 nm to 405 nm. Note that the device exhibits decreased efficiency as it operates toward the upper 405 nm and lower 364 nm wavelengths.

During operation light indicated by reference line produced by the laser diode array for example 650 nm light is focused onto the emerald crystal by the optical element . As described hereinabove crystal is operative to double the frequency of the light for example from 650 nm to 364 nm coherent light and emit light HW harmonic wavelength .

The emitted light from the doubling crystal is expanded by a diverging concave lens and re collimated by a convex lens . The system further comprises a high pass optical filter . When the light passes through the high pass optical filter the high pass filter absorbs any residual 650 nm light from the laser diode . Additionally the high pass filter absorbs 675 nm to 900 nm fundamental emissions from crystal for example an emerald crystal. In this regard the high pass optical filter allows those wavelengths for example 364 nm to 405 nm coherent light to be emitted from the system .

As an example the output power of the system can be estimated by first calculating the power of the beam within the crystal . The saturation intensity of crystal is calculated using the following equation Equation 1 where Iis the saturation intensity Wcm hv is the photon energy at the laser frequency 2.633 10J is the emission cross section 2 10 20 cm and t is the excited state lifetime 60 10sec .

Further the circulating power within the cavity of the beam is calculated using the following equation 2 g ln 1 Equation 2 where gis the single pass gain 0.1 cm L is the length of the gain medium 0.5 cm S is the Findlay Clay insertion losses 0.004 and lnR is the natural logarithm of the reflectivity of the output coupler assuming a 5 loss from the second harmonic generation output beam ln 0.95 0.05 . Therefore the circulating power may be calculated as follows 2 0.1 cm 2 0.5 cm 0.004 ln 0.95 1 1.85 2.8 10W. The total power is then multiplied by the area of the crystal e.g. 2 10cm giving a total circulating power within the cavity of 5.5 W. Thus the fundamental emissions from crystal described hereinabove e.g. the 675 nm to 900 nm are absorbed and a portion e.g. 1 5 is converted to the second harmonic beam e.g. 337.5 nm to 450 nm yielding an output power from 55 mW to 280 mW. Such power is output if a double pass is made through crystal . In this regard some of the wavelengths will be absorbed by crystal so a single pass through the doubling crystal will yield 27.5 mW to 140 mW CW power at the peak of the beam .

As shown in in another embodiment of the system crystal may be bonded to crystal as described hereinabove. In addition however a q switching element may be bonded to crystal . An example of a coupled cavity Q switched laser is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 982 405 hereby incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment of the present invention the q switching element may be a Cr YSO Cr YSiO passive q switching element. The q switching element accumulates the energy produced within the cavity and releases the energy at once thereby creating pulses of light as opposed to a continuous wave as described hereinabove.

In this regard as long as the absorption cross section of the passive q switching element exceeds the emission cross section of the crystal pulsing will occur. As an example if the absorption cross section of the q switching element is 7 10cmand the emission cross section of crystal is 3 4 10cm then the q switching absorption is greater than the emission cross section of crystal . Thus q switching will occur at a particular rate for example 10 10Hertz and the output energy will be in the 10joule range.

The system focuses the 650 nm generated light onto a first crystal via an optical device as indicated in step . In one embodiment as described hereinabove the optical element is a simple lens that directs the light to the first crystal and crystal is a commercially available synthetic emerald crystal.

The light that is focused on crystal excites the atoms in crystal thereby generating a high power circulating beam within cavity as indicated in step . The system then doubles the frequency of the high power circulating beam within cavity as indicated in step . Such doubling may be performed by a frequency doubling crystal bonded to crystal which is described with reference to .

The system then emits a portion of the beam based upon the coatings and that are applied to crystal and crystal respectively as indicated in step .

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the accompanying claims.

