---

title: Genealogy system for interfacing with social networks
abstract: A system for managing genealogy data is provided. The system includes a genealogy application for storing genealogy account identification data for a first genealogy account. A social network interface receives data from the first genealogy account and provides genealogical data to the genealogy application. A relative invitation system generates an invitation to a user to create a second genealogy account for the genealogy application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477941&OS=09477941&RS=09477941
owner: INTELIUS, INC.
number: 09477941
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080624
---
This disclosure relates to systems for managing genealogy data and more specifically to a genealogy system for interfacing with one or more social networks that allows a user to manage genealogy data using one or more social networks.

Systems for managing genealogy data are known in the art. Such systems typically are dedicated systems that store genealogy data and which do not provide much functionality for interfacing with other data systems. As a result any data that is provided to those systems must be input from other sources manually and those sources must be manually identified and searched. Accordingly a user whose task is to compile a family tree must do so manually and is unable to leverage information that may exist outside of his her chosen data system.

In accordance with the present invention a genealogy system and method for interfacing with one or more social networks are provided that allows a user to manage genealogy data using one or more social networks.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention a system for managing genealogy data is provided. The system includes a genealogy application for storing genealogy account identification data for a first genealogy account. A social network interface receives data from the first genealogy account and provides genealogical data to the genealogy application. A relative invitation system generates an invitation to a user to create a second genealogy account for the genealogy application.

Those skilled in the art will further appreciate the advantages and superior features of the invention together with other important aspects thereof on reading the detailed description that follows in conjunction with the drawings.

In the description that follows like parts are marked throughout the specification and drawings with the same reference numerals respectively. The drawing figures might not be to scale and certain components can be shown in generalized or schematic form and identified by commercial designations in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

System includes genealogy application and social networks and each of which can be implemented in hardware software or a suitable combination of hardware and software and which can be one or more software systems operating on a general purpose processing platform. As used herein hardware can include a combination of discrete components an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a field programmable gate array or other suitable hardware. As used herein software can include one or more objects agents threads lines of code subroutines separate software applications two or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in two or more software applications or on two or more processors or other suitable software structures. In one exemplary embodiment software can include one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a general purpose software application such as an operating system and one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a specific purpose software application.

Genealogy application is coupled to social networks through . As used herein the term coupled and its cognate terms such as couples or couple can include a physical connection such as a wire optical fiber or a telecommunications medium a virtual connection such as through randomly assigned memory locations of a data memory device or a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP link a logical connection such as through one or more semiconductor devices in an integrated circuit or other suitable connections.

Genealogy application allows a user to organize and coordinate genealogy data using one or more of social networks through as sources for data. In one exemplary embodiment genealogy application allows the user to set up family trees identify relatives provide genealogical data such as information about a person audio video data of a person or other information that becomes genealogical data by virtue of being associated with a genealogical family structure access genealogical databases and perform other genealogical data management functions. Genealogy application also allows the user to coordinate with one or more of social networks through . In one exemplary embodiment genealogy application can be configured to interface with a single one of social networks through so as to provide data on individuals who have accounts with that specific social network to provide permission and set permission for access between accounts on that social network or to perform other suitable functions. Likewise genealogy application can be used with two or more of social networks through as further described herein. Thus while genealogy application can be used with a single social network through it can also be used to interface with multiple social networks. In this regard the user account data can include data specific to that user s account such as the genealogy data and other data besides the genealogy data such as an account identifier linkage data and other suitable data. The genealogy account data includes data specific to the user s genealogy tree as well as other associated data such as an account identifier data identifying individuals that were determined not to be associated with the user s genealogy tree individuals that are candidates for inclusion in the user s genealogy tree associated links to data for such individuals or other suitable data. Relative data can include data for individuals in a user s genealogy tree such as birth dates addresses family relationships links to other sources of data or accounts or other suitable data. As such while there is some overlap in the data that makes up genealogy account data user account data and relative data there can also be additional data in each data set that distinguishes each data set from the other.

Social networks through provide social networking functions such as the ability to provide and store information about a person to form relationships with other persons or members of the social network such as by having a list of contacts and otherwise allow individuals to update information so that current information on an individual such as an email address mailing address telephone number or other suitable information can be provided. Social networks through can include general population social networking applications social networking applications for schools social networks for professional organizations other specialized social network applications or other suitable social network applications. Typically such social networks through are unrelated and may be commercial competitors with each other such that interaction between such social networks is limited or non existent. Genealogy application thus provides a mechanism for coordination of predetermined classes of data between such social networks for predetermined purposes so as to allow for controlled interaction between social networks that does not presently exist.

In operation system allows a user of one or more of social networks through to access a genealogy application so as to manage genealogical data and to coordinate the genealogical data with persons having accounts on social networks through . System thus allows a single genealogy application to be coordinated with different social networks so as to take advantage of genealogical information that may be stored in different social networks through

Social network API system allows data from a social network to be retrieved and allows data to be provided to other social networks genealogy applications in other social networks or genealogy application . In one exemplary embodiment a proprietary and confidential application programming interface can be provided for genealogy application or other suitable applications so as to allow genealogy application to interface with a social network and exchange data. Likewise social network API system can allow a user to identify or select a social network for which an API already exists to configure an API that will allow the social network to provide data for that user such as by providing fields for a password user ID or other suitable data or to perform other suitable functions.

Data sharing configuration system allows a user to identify what data can be shared with others through genealogy application . In one exemplary embodiment users can store a large amount of data on a social network but can restrict access to such data to certain persons can restrict classes of data that will be available to genealogy application or can perform other suitable functions. Data sharing configuration system allows a user to identify what data may be provided to users of other social networks such as where a users data access configuration controls for a first social network would not be applicable in a second social network allows a user to identify updating characteristics such as a period of time or data set for which coordination with different social networks should be allowed an order of precedence for coordination e.g. which of two or more social networks should be the primary data source or other suitable data.

Genealogy account data system allows the user to configure and manage a genealogy account. In one exemplary embodiment genealogy data can include family trees that show relationships between individuals such as mother father relationships parent child relationships brother sister relationships grandfather grandmother relationships aunt uncle relationships or other suitable relationships. In this manner genealogy trees can be configured and coordinated and can be readily adapted to account for and include additional data from other genealogy sources such as other users of genealogy accounts and users of social network accounts. For example a link can be provided to a user genealogy account on a social network that allows the contact information for that person to be periodically updated so as to ensure that the data for individuals in a genealogy tree is kept up to date. Likewise additional information from a social network can be used to populate the genealogy data such as where a social network allows users to add data fields for children or other relatives to change their marital status or to otherwise change data that can be provided to the genealogy application.

In operation system allows users to configure and manage a genealogy application so as to interface with one or more different social networks. In this manner users of different social networks can be coordinated through a genealogy application so as to allow the genealogy data to be supplemented with data from different social networks.

Genealogy application interface allows a social network to be configured to provide data to and receive data from a genealogy application. In one exemplary embodiment genealogy application interface can be used to interface between genealogy applications within the social networks such as where a distributed genealogy application architecture is used instead of a centralized genealogy application architecture. Likewise genealogy application interface can be used to interface with an external genealogy application or other suitable applications.

Internal relative identification system allows a user to locate a relative using genealogical data and user data of a social network. In one exemplary embodiment a user of genealogy application can access a database of users of a social network and can locate a relative or potential relative using account data stored on the social network user database such as data that identifies where an account holder of the social network was born has resided or presently resides relatives of the account holder or other suitable data. In another exemplary embodiment genealogical data stored on the social network user database can be utilized such as where the social network includes a distributed genealogy application. The social network can have a single user database with fields for the genealogy application a separate database for the genealogy application or other suitable configurations.

External relative identification system allows a user to locate a relative using genealogical data from sources other than a social network. In one exemplary embodiment a user of genealogy application can access a database of genealogy data and can locate a relative or potential relative using data stored on the database such as data that identifies where a person was born has resided or presently resides relatives of the person or other suitable data. In another exemplary embodiment external relative identification system can search social network user databases using genealogical data from sources other than a social network such as to confirm whether a person associated with the genealogical data has an account on the social network.

Relative invitation system allows a user to invite an identified relative for inclusion in genealogy data to invite such relatives to join a social network and to perform other suitable functions. Incentives can also be provided such as where a relative can be invited to join one of several social networks that interface with the genealogy application and where the operator of the genealogy application receives an incentive to promote one of the social networks. The relative can also be given the option of setting controls on the data that is to be provided to the genealogy application to decline the invitation to decline and request or provide additional data or to perform other suitable functions.

In operation system allows social networks to be configured to interface with a centralized genealogy application to allow a distributed genealogy application to coordinate data or for other suitable purposes. System allows relatives to be located and invited to join the genealogy application a social network or other suitable applications so as to allow the relative to provide additional data for use by the genealogy application.

At a user selects the genealogy application such as by selecting from available applications on the social network by requesting access such as where the genealogy application is not publicly displayed or is selected using a hyperlink provided in an invitation or in other suitable manners. The method then proceeds to .

At it is determined whether the genealogy application should be added to the user s account. If it is determined that the user has not selected to have the genealogy application added to their account the method proceeds to and resumes the previous operation or terminates. Otherwise the method proceeds to where the genealogy application obtains user data from the social network. In one exemplary embodiment the genealogy application can be a centralized genealogy application such that the genealogy application accesses the social network through an API. In another exemplary embodiment the genealogy application can be hosted on the social network such that the social network information is received from or provided to the social network from one or more other social networks through an API between genealogy applications on those social networks or in other suitable manners. Any suitable configuration of APIs can be used such as an API of a genealogy application that resides within a single social network that is between the social network and the genealogy application an API between that social network and another social network that is used to coordinate data for genealogy applications on the different social networks an API between genealogy applications on different social networks that is independent of the different social networks or other suitable configurations. The method then proceeds to .

At the user is assigned a user identifier. In one exemplary embodiment a unique user identifier can be used so as to allow the user to coordinate genealogy information for genealogy applications operating on other social networks to allow different social networks to interact with a centralized genealogy application or in other suitable manners. The method then proceeds to .

At it is determined whether other social networks are to be selected such as where the genealogy application can interface with other social networks. If it is determined that other social networks are not to be selected or if the genealogy application only interfaces with a single social network the method proceeds to otherwise the method proceeds to where one or more selected social networks are configured with the genealogy user identifier. In one exemplary embodiment a user can access social networks from a centralized genealogy application such where the user has a number of social network accounts and uses a genealogy application identifier to quickly configure those accounts with genealogy data. Likewise other suitable processes can be used. The method then proceeds to .

At it is determined whether a relative should be added. If it is determined a relative should not be added then the method proceeds to where the user resumes other operations. Otherwise the method proceeds to .

At it is determined whether the relative to be added is a member of the social network. If it is determined that the relative is not a member of the social network then the method proceeds to and the user adds user data such as to allow the relative to be contacted. The method then proceeds to where the relative is invited to join such as by sending an email or in other suitable manners.

Likewise if it is determined that at the new relative is a member of the social network then the method proceeds to where the genealogy application obtains the user data from the social network. In one exemplary embodiment the genealogy application can determine whether controls have been implemented to limit the type of data that can be accessed and a request to change the access control settings can be generated. The method then proceeds to .

At the relative is notified that they have been added to the genealogy application. For example if the relative has set controls on the amount or type of data that can be provided to other applications the request can be made to allow the relative to provide additional data or other suitable processes can be used.

In operation method allows the user to configure a genealogy account so as to allow the data stored in social networks to be used to coordinate genealogy functions. In this manner a user can access various social networks and leverage data collected by social networks in a centralized or distributed genealogical application.

At it is determined whether to connect to a social network such as where a user can elect to access a social network from a centralized genealogy application where a user can elect to change from a first social network having a genealogy application to a second social network having a genealogy application or to perform other suitable functions. If it is determined that connection to a social network is not required the method proceeds to otherwise the method proceeds to where a network account is selected and the connection is performed. The method then proceeds to .

At it is to determined whether to allow coordination of genealogical information and social network information. If it is determined that coordination is not required the method proceeds to otherwise the method proceeds to for the coordination function that has been configured. In one exemplary embodiment a user can select controls for allowing coordination of data between social networks between genealogical applications in social networks or other suitable controls. The method then proceeds to .

At it is determined whether to create a new network account. If it is determined that no new network account is to be created then the method proceeds to and the user resumes standard operations. Otherwise the method proceeds to where a social network is selected and the method proceeds to where the new social network account is configured. A user can also or alternatively create a new network account before allowing coordination or other suitable processes can also or alternatively be used.

In operation method allows a user to configure a genealogy application so as to allow genealogical data to be shared between social networks. Method allows efficient management of genealogical data that may be available in different social networks and provides for individual user control of account settings.

The designation of primary and secondary can be configured by individual accounts such as to allow a user to designate a genealogy application operating on one social network as the primary genealogy application for management and data sharing but where the user can designate one social network as a primary social network for obtaining additional genealogy data or identifying additional relatives. Likewise the designation of primary and secondary genealogy applications and social networks can be performed as a function of the overall system architecture.

For example a user may elect to have the genealogy application on a social network that is dedicated to certain groups of professionals a student organization or other suitable social networks designated as the primary genealogy application such as where that social network is the social network that is primarily accessed by the user. However another social network that is available to the general public may provide a better source for identifying relatives for addition to the user s genealogy data. In this exemplary embodiment the user can configure the secondary genealogy applications on the other social networks to provide data to the primary genealogy application on the secondary social network but the user can also designate the primary social network to be the social network to which non network relatives are invited to join so as to provide an incentive for relatives to join the primary social network and in so doing potentially identify additional relatives.

In another exemplary embodiment the genealogy application service provider may have an agreement with one of the social networks to send invitations for non network relatives to join that social network as a default social network. In this exemplary embodiment the genealogy application service provider may configure the genealogy application on that social network to be the primary application. Other suitable configurations can also or alternatively be provided.

In operation system allows a genealogy application to be distributed in different social networks and provides for coordination of data gathered at each social network between genealogy applications. System allows users or system operators to configure the types of data and synchronization processes that will be used to coordinate that data in a distributed architecture.

At it is determined whether the user is a member of the social network. If the user is a member of the social network the method proceeds to otherwise the method proceeds to where the user creates a new account on the social network. The method then proceeds to .

At the genealogy account is configured such as to allow the genealogy account to be populated with genealogy data personal data social network links and other suitable data. The method then proceeds to .

At the inviter is notified that the invited user has joined the social network and the invited user s genealogy data is then coordinated with the genealogy account data of the inviter. The method then proceeds to where it is determined whether or not to add links to accounts on other social networks. If it is determined at that links to accounts on other social networks are not required the method proceeds to and resumes other operation. Otherwise the method proceeds to where a social network is selected. The method then proceeds to where the account is configured such as by allowing the new user to provide a user id password a genealogy user identifier access permissions or other suitable data. In another exemplary embodiment a user s social network account can be configured by using the social network s API to obtain the user s unique session key such that the social network s API can be used to identify the user.

In operation method allows a user to be invited to join a genealogy application and to create a new social network account for use with the genealogy application to add existing social network accounts for use with the genealogy application to configure the types of data that will be provided to the genealogy application and to perform other management functions. Method can be used in a genealogy application that is centralized distributed or in other suitable architectures.

If it is determined at that user log in is not required then the method proceeds to where an application programming interface is invoked. In one exemplary embodiment the application programming interface can be used to transfer data in accordance with predetermined or user configurable data transfer provisions. In another exemplary embodiment the application program interface can be configured such as to interface with a new social network. The method then proceeds to where the social network is configured to interface with the genealogy application such as by applying user selected or predetermined data coordination controls.

Likewise if it is determined user log in is required the method proceeds to where the user logs in and then proceeds to where an application program interface is invoked if one is present. The method then proceeds to where the network is configured such as by allowing the user to configure user selectable controls for coordination of data by allowing the user to provide data that is not provided through an application program interface or in other suitable manners.

In operation method allows a user to configure multiple social networks to interact with a genealogy account such as a centralized genealogy account a genealogy account that is distributed on the different social networks or other suitable configurations. In this manner the social networks and data fields in social networks that are used to coordinate with a genealogy application can be configured by a user a system operator or other suitable persons.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the claimed subject matter is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

