---

title: System and method for interfacing interactive systems with social networks and media playback devices
abstract: A system and method for interfacing interactive systems with social networks and media playback devices is described. For example, a system for generating and interacting with media content is described. In one embodiment, the system includes an interactive system that displays media content, wherein the interactive system includes a first computer and sensors for recording a user's interaction with the displayed media content, and a kiosk that allows a user to share the interactive media content with social networks and media playback devices, wherein the interactive media content includes the media content and metadata representing the user's recorded interaction with the media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745502&OS=08745502&RS=08745502
owner: Snibbe Interactive, Inc.
number: 08745502
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081113
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 130 188 entitled System and Method for Interfacing Interactive Systems with Social Networks and Media Playback Devices filed May 28 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Media playback systems allow users to view media and or multimedia. Multimedia also referred to herein as media is media and content that utilizes a combination of different content forms. Multimedia can include for example a combination of text audio still images animation video and interactivity content forms. Multimedia is usually recorded and played displayed or accessed by information content processing devices such as computerized and electronic devices but can also be part of a live performance. Media playback systems include electronic media devices used to store and experience multimedia content. The term rich media is often used synonymously to refer to interactive multimedia. Hypermedia is an example multimedia application.

Social networks such as Facebook and MySpace allow users to interact or socialize with other users. A social network is a social structure made of nodes which are generally users or organizations that are tied by one or more specific types of interdependency such as values visions ideas financial exchange friendship and or trade. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Interactive systems that include a computer responding to unencumbered users using a camera as described by Myron Krueger in U.S. Pat. No. 4 843 568 exist in many locations and are used for advertising entertainment education and other purposes. Other such interactive systems such as photograph capturing and editing systems sensor based interactive systems such as systems that are commonly found in museums also exist. Interactive systems create a physical and social connection between users other users using these systems and the system itself. These social connections and experiences are directly tied to the physical embodiment of the system or physical representations of generated media. However users are unable to share their experiences to a larger community of users. Social networks for sharing experiences photographs videos and audio to large networked communities on the Internet also exist. However no system or method exists for sharing experiences as media from physical interactive systems to other users devices and or social networks.

What is needed is a system and method that allows user to share his or her experience and media from interactive systems with other users devices and or social networks.

In one embodiment a system and method for interfacing interactive systems such as interactive video based computer systems or interactive photographic capture devices or other interactive devices with Web based social networks and media playback devices such as Internet enabled devices or other devices promoting social interactions with interactive systems is described. For example a computer system collects video digital photographs or data from interactive systems. In one embodiment a computer collects email addresses and also allows users to select data or videos or photos to share with a web based social network and sends this data along with descriptive metadata to a remotely located computer or system of computers. The user then receives an email with a link to access the data online. In one embodiment the collected data and metadata is sent directly to a remotely located computer or system of computers. The remotely located computer or system of computers stores this data. In one embodiment data from these interactive systems can be viewed analyzed or be interacted with online. For example users are able to view and access the data by visiting an online website. The user has the option to download edit and or share this data with other users devices other networks and various social networks. Accordingly users can share their experiences with others and can also add comments to shared interactive media content.

In one embodiment the present invention permits a user using an interactive system to share the physical and social experience as recorded media such as for example video photographs sound and or data and associated metadata with other users devices and social networks that are connected by the Internet. The metadata stores key information relating the physical experience and location of the interactive system to the user and to the stored media. The invention permits the user to comment visualize and or modify the media representing the physical experience of the interactive system before sharing.

In one embodiment the physical experience of using an interactive system is captured as media and stored in a database. A user is able to browse and select recorded media to share using a kiosk. The user can then enter an email address so that he or she can view modify and share his or her experience from for example home or another network connected device. The user receives an email with a link that permits them to visualize modify and further share the media with social networks other users by email other networks other devices e.g. using web pages customized for specific devices .

In one embodiment a data reader can be used to collect information of the user using the interactive system instead of or in addition to having the user enter an email address. Data readers include for example bar code readers magnetic card readers biometric identification readers and or radio frequency identification RFID readers. This data from the data reader is stored for example as metadata associated with the media.

In one embodiment a data reader e.g. biometric identification reader such as fingerprint iris DNA or other type of reader can be used to identify a user that is using the interactive system and to associate this user with an email address stored in a database instead of having the user enter an email address.

In one embodiment the encoded media and metadata is transferred from the interactive system e.g. immersive system directly to a server or a system of servers. A user is able to browse visualize select and or share the media by accessing a web page associated with the location of the interactive system or interactive system sponsor or an event associated with the interactive system or interactive system maker.

In one embodiment multiple kiosks for browsing the media are connected to a kiosk server that stores and serves the media and associated metadata. The multiple kiosks allow for several users to browse and share media from the interactive system simultaneously.

In one embodiment an interactive system is connected to multiple kiosk systems without requiring a separate kiosk server and the media and associated metadata are stored on each kiosk separately.

In one embodiment multiple interactive systems are connected to a kiosk system e.g. kiosk . The multiple interactive systems can be related to each other but such is not required. A user can view and select media to share from the multiple interactive systems at a kiosk.

In one embodiment multiple interactive systems are connected to a kiosk server that stores and serves the media and metadata of the multiple interactive systems. Multiple kiosks for browsing and selecting the media can be connected to the kiosk server to allow several users to view and select media to share from the multiple interactive systems.

The media content as used herein media refers to media content and or multimedia content can be a video representing the user s actions within a context relevant to interactive system such as the user represented in a simulation. For example the media can be a photograph or video that is captured and modified or unmodified by the user or by the interactive system. The media can also be audio or data that is generated by the user and can be represented in some fashion such as but not limited to a simulation an animation a game and or analytical charts or graphs. Other examples of media include interactive video user created video with an audio mix tactile data a video game a music video computer graphic data three dimensional motion capture data a digital photograph a data visualization environmental data and recorded brain wave signals data. Information about the location or event of interactive system along with other details of the media is stored as metadata e.g. any type of data that describes the media content data such as data representing the user s physical virtual interaction with the media or is associated with the media content data such as user related information and or location related information of where the interactive media was created and or the interactive system used for creating the interactive media content along with the media in a database of kiosk system . Interactive system and kiosk system are connected by a communication network such as a wide area network or local area network in network communication with Internet . Also it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a database such as database can include a database and database software for accessing and managing the database. For example database can be a relational database accessed using a well known Structured Query Language SQL . Kiosk system includes a computer which provides access to database and allows a user to browse and select his or her physical experience from interactive system . Kiosk can be implemented as a single computer computing system with integrated with interactive system . In one embodiment kiosk is any system that allows a user to interact with interactive system and can communicate with the Internet . For example the user s interactions with the selected media content is recorded using camera sensors and stored in database as interactive media content also referred to herein as interactive media which includes the media content and associated metadata that represents the recorded user interaction with the media content. The user can then select his or her interactive media for sharing with others and kiosk then collects the email address of the user and stores this email address as additional metadata associated with the media content. Kiosk sends the interactive media to a system of servers via the Internet using for example the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP over secure socket layer HTTPS or using other well known protocols as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment a system of servers allows for storing browsing modification visualization and sharing of the media content and metadata e.g. interactive media via the Internet . In one embodiment system of servers is implemented in one or more server computer s e.g. a single server computer executing multiple applications and or virtual machines for providing an application server media server mail server and database access . As will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art a router forwards network packets for network communication and typically sends these packets to a switch that allows as shown multiple servers and other devices to connect to the Internet via the router . Database stores shared media and associated metadata e.g. interactive media .

In one embodiment mail server sends an email to the user whose email address is stored in the metadata of the interactive media that is to be shared. For example this email includes a link to a web page that allows the user to access view the interactive media to optionally modify the interactive media to comment on the interactive media and to share the interactive media. The web page is served by application server which serves as an application layer in one embodiment of the present invention. The application server serves web pages in response to HTTP and HTTPS requests from remote clients including for example a user s computer such as a user s home computer and Internet enabled connected device s e.g. a laptop computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media playback device a video game entertainment system or any other portable device capable of displaying the interactive media and network communication with the Internet . By serving web pages application server provides a graphical user interface GUI to the system of servers and the interactive media stored in database . A media server provides the media content for this web page. In one embodiment a media server is any server or software executing on a computing device such as a server that is capable of serving media content such as interactive media. Example publicly accessible media servers include Google Video YouTube Yahoo Video and Flickr photo sharing which are all commercially available Internet services. In one embodiment media server is a privately accessible maintained media server for users with approved access only e.g. users of the interactive system and or a publicly accessible media server.

In one embodiment a user can use a web page to select how and with whom he or she will share the interactive media from his or her experience with interactive system . Once the user selects how he or she wants to share the interactive media application server sends the media and relevant metadata to a user selected social network e.g. Facebook MySpace and or other social networks and or to other user selected networks such as for example networks of interconnected devices. Application server also allows the user to share the interactive media with Internet connected device s by providing customized web pages with the interactive media that fit the screen format and resolution limitations of these devices such as for example PDAs media playback devices and mobile phones. Additionally application server can provide a link to a downloadable version of the interactive media that can be trans coded by media server such that the media can be downloaded by a user at his or her home computer . The downloaded interactive media can then be transferred to and viewed on for example media playback devices. Additionally mail server can send emails to other users with a link to view the interactive media. In one embodiment a defined application programming interface API is used for searching stored interactive media e.g. based on the media content itself and or the associated metadata of the interactive media content . In one embodiment a defined API is used for uploading interactive media content e.g. to a social network .

One or more of the components and or interactions between components may be optional and additional components not shown in may be included. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize for example that computer can be any computing device capable of displaying media communicating with camera sensors data readers for recording a user s interaction with the displayed media and communicating with the Internet including for example a general purpose computer e.g. a PC or laptop executing a general purpose operating system such as Microsoft Apple Linux and or Unix operating systems a video game entertainment system a PDA or smart phone device or any other device capable of executing applications and communicating with the Internet . Similarly computer can be any computing device capable of allowing users to interact with interactive system and communicating with the Internet including for example a general purpose computer e.g. a PC or laptop executing a general purpose operating system such as Microsoft Apple Linux and or Unix operating systems a video game entertainment system a PDA or smart phone device or any other device capable of executing applications and communicating with the Internet . In one embodiment interactive system and kiosk are implemented as a combination of executable software executing on and devices connected to a single computer in communication with the Internet . Those of ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that system of servers can be one or more computers or other computing devices capable of serving web pages distributing and storing interactive media content providing an email server and communicating with the Internet .

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

