---

title: Method and apparatus for providing customized ringbacks
abstract: An approach is provided for providing custom ringback services. The approach includes prompting a user for content as part of a managed ringback service. The content is received from the user, and is set as a ringback. An identifier corresponding to the ringback is received from the user, wherein the identifier is associated with a caller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085929&OS=08085929&RS=08085929
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08085929
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080715
---
The telecommunications industry offers a wide variety of telephony services to customers via wired and wireless networks. However with the advent of the Internet an increasing number of individuals have been migrating from the use of traditional communication based technologies to synergistic multimedia platforms. As such traditional telecommunications service providers are being challenged to develop new telephony based services and features to remain competitive as well as develop new sources of revenue. When a caller places a call to a called party the telephony network signals a connection establishment attempt through use of an audible ringing tone or ringback signal. Traditionally this ringback tone conveyed no other information.

A preferred apparatus method and software for providing custom ringback services are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to custom ringback services it is contemplated that the various exemplary embodiments are also applicable to custom ringtone and endtone services. As used herein ringbacks may include any media or multimedia type content such as any aural e.g. music sound utterance etc. visual e.g. image text video etc. or vibratory e.g. pulse pattern etc. indicia as well as combinations thereof. Further the terms communication device customer premise equipment CPE end user terminal EUT and voice enabled device are used interchangeably.

As mentioned traditionally when a calling party initiates a communication session e.g. telephone call with a called party over an existing communication network a network node e.g. call processing switch of for example the called party provides the calling party with a uniform predefined tone until the called party accepts e.g. answers the communication session. This uniform predefined tone is generally referred to as a ringback tone. Typically the ringback tone is an intermittent analog transmission e.g. one or more signals generated by a network node and transported via a back channel link present between the network node and an originating device e.g. telephone of the calling party. It is noted that the back channel link may traverse one or more network nodes configured to establish the communication session between the calling party and the called party. Accordingly a conventional ringback tone is commonly provided by the network node servicing the called party whereby the ringback tone is not modifiable by either the calling party or the called party. That is the uniform predefined tone is selected and provided by a telecommunications service provider hosting the communication session and thereby the same for all communication session attempts.

Telecommunications service providers are beginning to introduce ringback services whereby subscribers to the services may pre select from existing sets of audio and or multimedia content to be transported to a calling party during the connection stage of the communication session. These ringback services enable parties attempting to establish a communication session with the subscriber to be provided with subscriber pre selected audio and or multimedia content instead of the uniform predefined tone pre selected by a telecommunications service provider. It is noted however that these ringback services do not enable the subscribers to create their own personalized ringbacks but instead limit subscribers to the available ringback content of the service provider. Consequently existing ringback services do not enable subscribers to robustly individualize their communication experiences. Thus it is apparent that more flexible efficient techniques for the creation and management of customized ringbacks are needed.

Therefore the approach according to certain embodiments stem from the recognition that deploying custom ringback services whereby subscribers can create and manage their own customized ringbacks provides efficient and convenient techniques to enable individuals to personalize their communication experiences as well as provides telecommunications service providers a synergistic approach for leveraging existing infrastructures and for generating new sources of revenue.

According to one embodiment system introduces custom ringback services whereby subscribers can establish a communication session with a ringback platform via a voice enabled device e.g. voice station mobile voice station and or computing device to create e.g. record and manage e.g. schedule one or more customized ringbacks as well as register and receive authentication information for the custom ringback service. In particular implementations the communication session may be established by placing a telephone call to an interactive voice response IVR interface whereby users may input authentication information e.g. coded key personal identification number PIN username password voice print etc. associated with a user account to access the custom ringback services provided by ringback platform . As such users may be permitted to access ringback platform by placing a telephone call to a designated telephone number such as a toll free access number e.g. 1 800 1 888 etc. and providing sufficient authentication information e.g. PIN thereafter so as to create and manage one or more customized ringbacks. It is also contemplated that access to ringback platform may be effectuated through short messaging service SMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS interfaces which may in turn interface with the IVR interface. Namely subscribers may be permitted to communicate with ringback platform via one or more messaging formats whereby authorization information e.g. a coded key customized ringback content and or management information may be provided to ringback platform in the form of one or more SMS and or MMS messages. In other implementations subscribers may access the custom ringback services provided by ringback platform through an online interface e.g. web interface. That is subscribers may be permitted to access ringback platform via a networked ringback site by logging onto the site with sufficient authentication information e.g. username and password so as to create and manage one or more customized ringbacks. As such ringback platform may acquire customized ringbacks from users while users may create and manage these customized ringbacks via one or more interfaces of ringback platform e.g. an IVR interface online interface and or SMS MMS interface.

According to another embodiment system also introduces custom ringback services whereby ringback platform is provided for setting one or more communication session processing triggers e.g. ringback trigger on one or more communication session processing nodes e.g. nodes of networks . These communication session processing triggers can be application programming interfaces API configured to trap or otherwise suspend the processing of a communication session based on certain predefined conditions and based on those additional or other predefined conditions to retrieve one or more subscriber created customized ringbacks e.g. customized ringback for the connection stage of the communication session. Namely upon the occurrence of certain predefined conditions the communication session processing triggers are configured to retrieve subscriber created and managed customized ringbacks from one or more ringback content repositories such as ringback content repositories and or so that the communication session processing nodes may transfer appropriate customized ringbacks e.g. customized ringback to a calling party instead of a uniform predefined ringback tone or merely available ringback content of a service provider. In particular implementations the predefined conditions may be established by subscribers during customized ringback creation and or management processes with ringback platform .

As seen in service provider network enables communication devices to access ringback platform so that subscribers can create and manage one or more customized ringbacks such as customized ringback . In this manner ringback platform may be configured to record ringback content received from for example a subscriber in response to prompting the subscriber with a menu of options for creating a customized ringback . According to certain implementations ringback platform enables subscribers to create customized ringbacks by recording audio content received from a subscriber at a voice enabled device e.g. voice station over a voice communication session. Various other embodiments of ringback platform permit subscribers to create customized ringbacks through SMS and or MMS messages whereby ringback platform is configured to receive SMS and or MMS content from subscribers via one or more of networks . In further embodiments ringback platform allows subscribers to include media or multimedia type content such as aural e.g. music sound utterance etc. visual e.g. image text video etc. and or vibratory e.g. pulse pattern etc. indicia as or as part of a customized ringback. In this manner ringback platform is also provided for generating and setting one or more ringback triggers on one or more nodes of networks for making customized ringbacks e.g. customized ringback available to calling parties based on one or more predefined conditions. Accordingly ringback platform is further configured to allow subscribers to manage or otherwise schedule customized ringbacks via the one or more predefined conditions. That is ringback platform can be configured to receive predefined conditions from subscribers via communication devices in response to ringback platform prompting subscribers with a menu of options for managing customized ringbacks . Ringback platform is more fully described in accordance with .

As seen in ringback platform includes one or more access interfaces e.g. IVR module messaging interface module and online interface module to enable subscribers various mechanisms to communicate within ringback platform such as relaying customized ringback content and or one or more predefined conditions e.g. policy information to ringback platform . Accordingly access interfaces can be configured to lead a subscriber through the process of recording and or editing a customized ringback as well as the process of gathering policy information e.g. predefined conditions using a menu of options prompts and questions that are transmitted to the subscribers via communication devices . In response subscribers may provide specific information issue commands make menu selections and provide content corresponding to a customized ringback and or provide policy information for managing their customized ringbacks. It is noted that the mode of response will be contingent upon the access interface utilized which is made more apparent below. Access interfaces may operate in concert as standalone components and or in distributed fashions. It is also contemplated that access interfaces may be provided apart from ringback platform e.g. as standalone distributed facilities and or as part of other components facilities of system .

In this way access interfaces may utilize recording module for recording content corresponding to a customized ringback such as the spoken utterances of subscribers. Recording module can be configured to record the content as one or more files embodying a customized ringback e.g. customized ringback that may be stored to a local memory not illustrated of ringback platform or an accessible ringback content repository of system such as ringback content repositories and or . As such the recorded content which once recorded may correspond to a customized ringback may be made available to other components and or facilities of system for carrying out the processes described herein. Recording module may be embodied by other components of ringback platform or may be remotely located from ringback platform . In this way it is also contemplated that access interfaces may be configured having the functionality of recording module .

According to one embodiment recording module may record content in a first format and then may convert such format into a second format which can enable customized ringbacks to be made more easily accessible to a diverse set of system components and or facilities. A translator not illustrated may be provided for this purpose. These files which represent the same recording may then be suitably stored at ringback platform or any other suitable location such as ringback content repositories and or . According to one embodiment customized ringbacks may be recorded in a companding algorithm e.g. law eight kilobit phone quality waveform audio WAV format however any suitable format may be utilized and or converted to such as an advanced audio coding AAC format audio interchange file format AIFF AU file format moving picture experts group MPEG file format windows media audio WMA format etc.

According to one embodiment IVR module among other functions collects from and provides information to subscribers as well as provides subscribers with customized ringback managing e.g. scheduling capabilities. In one implementation IVR module utilizes communication interface for communication with one or more subscribers over telephony network and in certain embodiments wireless network and or data network as well. As such communication interface may embody one or more communication session interfaces e.g. telephony interface which may include a resource manager not shown and or a voice browser. In alternative embodiments other communication session interfaces are utilized depending on the access method of the subscriber such as message interface module for SMS and or MMS communications or online interface module for for instance voice over internet protocol VoIP communications. Additionally or alternatively IVR module may provide or selectively include one or more of these components.

The resource manager provides various speech resources such as an automatic speech recognizer ASR and a text to speech TTS engine. The TTS engine converts textual information digital signal from ringback platform to speech analog signal for playback to subscribers. As such various embodiments enable ringback content to be stored as delimited text files as opposed to one or more of the file formats previously delineated. The TTS engine accomplishes this transition between text and speech through a front end input and a back end output. The input converts raw text into its written out word equivalent through text normalization pre processing and or tokenization. Words are then assigned phonetic transcriptions and divided into prosodic units e.g. phrases clauses and or sentences. Using this combination of phonetic transcriptions and prosody arrangements the front end input communicates a symbolic linguistic representation to the back end output for synthesizing. Based on the desired level of naturalness or intelligibility the back end output is capable generating speech waveforms representing the actual audible output transmitted to subscribers.

The ASR can effectively function as a speech recognition system. As such the ASR effectively converts spoken language represented by analog signals into textual or equivalent symbolic form digital signal for processing by for example the voice browser. The voice browser may play pre recorded audio content to the user in lieu of or in addition to use of the TTS engine. As such the audio content provided via ringback platform may also be stored in corresponding multimedia formats which may provide for more realistic playback. According to one embodiment the resource manager may include an analog to digital and digital to analog converter for signaling between one or more of communication devices and the voice browser for example. Further in alternative embodiments the voice browser may contain speech recognition and synthesis logic that implements the above thereby extracting meaning from the spoken utterances of a subscriber and producing acoustic renditions of text directly. As such IVR module may utilize the ASR and or the TTS functionalities to prompt subscribers via a menu of options to create and manage one or more customized ringbacks such as customized ringback .

Accordingly the voice browser can function as a gateway between a call for example and a variety of networked applications e.g. the customized ringback creation and management applications of ringback platform . The voice browser may employ functionality corresponding to microphones keypads and speakers instead of keyboards mice and monitors of conventional web based systems. As such the voice browser can be configured to process pages of markup language such as voice extensible markup language VoiceXML speech application language tags SALT hypertext markup language HTML and others such as wireless markup language WML for wireless application protocol WAP based applications and the World Wide Web W3 platform for handheld devices residing on or accessible to ringback platform . Since a broad level of markup languages can be supported the voice browser may be configured accordingly i.e. configured to include a VoiceXML compliant browser a SALT complaint browser an HTML compliant browser a WML compliant browser or any other markup language complaint browser for communicating with subscribers at communication devices . As with standard web services and applications the voice browser may utilize a standardized networked infrastructure i.e. hypertext transport protocol HTTP cookies web caches uniform resource locators URLs secure HTTP etc. to establish and maintain connections.

In this manner IVR module acts as an all purpose portal to ringback platform wherein subscribers can interact with IVR module and thereby ringback platform using either spoken utterances dual tone multi frequency DTMF signals or other suitable interfacing signal such as SMS MMS messages etc. This enables IVR module to establish one or more communication ports on communication interface for receiving communication sessions e.g. calls for the custom ringback service from one or more voice enabled devices e.g. voice station by subscribers. IVR module may also retrieve ringback content from repositories and or and transmit such content to subscribers over the communication session such as for reviewing and or editing a customized ringback managing a customized ringback etc. In turn IVR module may also receive via the communication session control commands e.g. spoken utterances DMTF signals SMS MMS messages etc. from a subscriber at a voice enabled device e.g. mobile voice station for managing or otherwise scheduling the transmission of customized ringbacks to various calling parties attempting to establish a communication session with the subscriber.

Ringback platform may also behave as a website or other online interface to permit access to the custom ringback services of ringback platform by computing devices and or mobile voice station over data network and or wireless network respectively. According to certain embodiments customized ringbacks may be created and or managed via a web browser or other web based application. Furthermore online interface may execute a graphical user interface GUI application configured to provide users with one or more menus of options relating to customized ringback creation and or management as well for building user profile accounts and or establishing condition s for managing the transmission of customized ringbacks to calling parties. In particular embodiments online interface enables subscribers to upload to ringback platform ringback content corresponding to a customized ringback user profile information and or conditions or criteria for controlling the transmission of customized ringbacks. This content and or data may be stored to one or more repositories such as ringback content repositories and or and or user profiles repository as well as any other suitable location or memory of system and or ringback platform . In other embodiments this content and data may be downloaded from ringback platform and or repositories so that subscribers may review and or edit a customized ringback as well as manage the transmission of customized ringbacks to calling parties.

Accordingly the GUI s of online interface module may be presented in one or more windows of a conventional browser application. The GUI s may be generated and presented in one or more windows controlled by computing device and or mobile voice station . By way of example mobile voice station may include a custom ringback service interface that provides soft controls for creating and or managing customized ringbacks and or manipulating user account information including for instance the predefined conditions or criteria for provisioning customized ringbacks to calling parties. The interface may include one or more soft keys or other graphical user interface GUI implementation such as a keypad touch pad etc. As such mobile voice station may include a processor and memory configured to store and execute instructions for supporting the custom ringback service as well as other communication functions. Accordingly the GUIs of online interface module or corresponding devices and or may include pages of both textual and or graphical information as well as various interactive control widgets through which users may access and interact with ringback platform IVR module and or messaging interface module . Thus users at mobile voice station and or computing device may input commands to online interface module to create and manage customized ringbacks as well as manipulate user profiles corresponding to the custom ringback service of system .

As shown authentication module may be provided for authenticating or authorizing subscribers to the custom ringback generation and management services of ringback platform . It is contemplated that authentication module may operate in concert with IVR module messaging interface module and or online interface module for authenticating subscribers. That is authentication module may verify subscriber provided credential information against corresponding credential information stored within a user profiles repository to provide selective access to the functions of ringback platform . By way of example the credential information may include log on information corresponding to a user name password coded key or other unique identification parameter such as a PIN. In certain other embodiments the credential information may include any one or combination of a birth date an account number e.g. bank credit card billing codes etc. a social security number SSN an address e.g. work home internet protocol IP media access control MAC etc. telephone listing home work cellular etc. as well as any other form of uniquely identifiable datum e.g. biometric code voice print etc. Subscribers may provide this information using either spoken utterances and or DTMF signals transmitted through IVR module and or communication interface as well as SMS MMS messages transmitted through messaging interface module or packetized information transmitted through online interface module . Unobtrusive security may be provided by positively identifying and screening users based on their voice prints transmitted to IVR module . Such voice prints may be stored after an initial user profile account building session.

Ringback platform is also shown to include provisioning module for generating and setting one or more ringback triggers e.g. ringback trigger on one or more call processing nodes e.g. nodes of networks . In this manner provisioning module acts as an all purpose service management tool which generates ringback triggers based information provided to ringback platform by subscribers. Ringback triggers are explained in more detail in accordance with .

Referring back to system may include both wireline and wireless networks. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network having voice over Internet protocol VoIP capabilities e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks and may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned networks. For instance service provider network may embody any circuit switched and or packet switched telephony network that includes facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based telephony communications. It is further contemplated that networks and or may include components and or facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components and or facilities of system . In this manner networks and or may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network session initiation protocol SIP based signaling infrastructure real time transport protocol real time transport control protocol RTP RTCP signaling framework or other suitable medium to support signaling traffic.

Accordingly the conjunction of networks and or may be adapted to provide the custom ringback services of system enable user access to ringback platform and facilitate communication sessions between a calling party at an originating device e.g. mobile voice station and a called party at a receiving device e.g. voice station . As such the originating and receiving devices i.e. communication devices may include any CPE capable of sending and or receiving voice communications over networks and or . Communication devices may also be capable of communications made available via one or more communication protocols such as extensible makeup language XML hypertext transfer protocol HTTP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP MMS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS WAP etc. For example voice station may be any plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. while mobile voice station may be any cellular phone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile voice enabled device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further computing device may be any voice enabled computing device capable of packetized voice communications such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone SIP phone Internet protocol IP phone personal computer with microphone and speaker capabilities softphone etc.

In this manner telephony network wireless network and data network can include one or more communication processing nodes e.g. nodes and respectively for facilitating connections between communication devices as well as connections between communication devices and ringback platform . While only a single communication device e.g. computing device is shown in communication with singular communication processing nodes e.g. node it is contemplated that a plurality of communication devices may be in communication with the communication processing nodes. It is further contemplated that a communication device may be in communication with a plurality of communication processing nodes. For instance in particular implementations computing device may be capable of communication with each of nodes or combinations thereof via suitable hardware and or software configurations. Exemplary computing system configurations are described in accordance with .

For the purposes of simplicity and clarity the various communication processing nodes of system will be referred to collectively as nodes . Nodes may be any communication processing device e.g. gateway router service control point SCP service switching point SSP server switch etc. or facility such as a central office CO end office EO mobile switching center MSC wire center WC etc. for opening closing circuits completing breaking electrical paths and or selecting deselecting paths circuits for use during one or more communication sessions. For example node may be a voice switch of telephony network node may be an MSC of wireless network and node may be a VoIP switch of data network . As such networks and or may be any series of nodes and or points connected by a series of interconnection paths capable of connecting a calling party at an originating device e.g. mobile voice station to a called party at a receiving device e.g. voice station . These interconnection paths may also serve to connect users at communication devices with the custom ringback services provided by ringback platform . Furthermore the interconnection paths may serve as back channels links for transporting customized ringbacks e.g. customized ringback to calling parties at originating devices.

According to various embodiments the operation of nodes may be correlated to a communication session model such as a finite state machine including one or more communication session states that correspond to and describe particular points in time for any given communication session. For example a basic call state model BSCM governing the originating and or terminating side of a communication session may be utilized for these purposes however it is contemplated that any suitable model may be implemented. Exemplary control models may include one or more inter state transitions that represent detection points DP for allowing communication session processing to occur. That is the one or more DPs may represent trigger detection points TDP including one or more triggers responsive to one or more predefined conditions. These triggers may utilize one or more application specific processes for detecting the one or more predefined conditions. In this manner nodes may be selectively configured to include communication session logic such as one or more communication session control components not illustrated and or one or more communication session processing triggers e.g. ringback trigger for processing e.g. establishing routing etc. communication sessions and when necessary temporarily suspending the processing of a communication session in order for a particular node to determine if a customized ringback e.g. customized ringback is required to retrieve customized ringbacks from ringback repositories and or when required and to transfer customized ringbacks to calling parties at originating devices when appropriate. For descriptive purposes the various ringback triggers of system will be referred to individually and collectively as ringback trigger .

In particular implementations ringback trigger is configured as a trigger that invokes the custom ringback service of system based on the reception of a connection signal from a calling party at an originating device to establish a communication session with a called party at a receiving device. For example ringback trigger may be encountered by the reception of specific digit string signals such as a string of digits corresponding to an address e.g. telephone number MAC address IP address etc. of a calling and or called party. Additionally or alternatively ringback trigger may invoke the custom ringback service of system based on one or more predefined conditions provided by a subscriber. These predefined conditions may include criteria such as time of day day of week day of year and or any other suitable scheduling datum as well as include other policy based factors such as a directory address e.g. telephone number machine identification number etc. of a calling and or called party available features of an originating device of a calling party e.g. audio interface visual display vibratory mechanism etc. mere preferences of the calling or called party and the like. As such it is contemplated that subscribers of the custom ringback service of system may be the calling and or the called party. It is also envisioned that ringback trigger may be established having various granularities. That is ringback trigger may have applicability ranging from specific communication session instances e.g. particularly individualized to calling parties based on the aforementioned predefined conditions to general communication session instances e.g. generally applicable to calling parties .

Accordingly nodes can be configured to serve as communication session and or ringback transmission controllers. That is nodes can be configured to establish and route communication sessions between calling parties at originating devices e.g. mobile voice station and called parties at receiving devices e.g. voice station as well as transport customized ringbacks e.g. customized ringback to calling parties at originating devices during the connection stage of those communication sessions based on one or more ringback triggers . Further nodes may be configured to translate standardized communication session commands into specific communication session processing commands based on information stored to a user profile. User profile information may be included as part of ringback trigger may be utilized to generate ringback trigger or may be queried for from user profiles repository . It is contemplated however that the functioning of nodes may be combined into a single intelligent network platform or distributed into alternative pluralities of intelligence platforms. For example nodes may be combined into a single CO servicing communication devices . Additionally or alternatively nodes may be distributed as one or more EOs wherein communication session processing commands may be acquired from a centralized and or distributed communication session controller s . Further nodes can be configured based on communication session processing commands to request and command ringback repositories and or to transmit customized ringbacks to originating devices during the connection stages of various communication sessions. It is noted that the functions of nodes may be assumed or distributed to ringback platform as well as vice versa. The generation establishment and operation of ringback triggers are described in more detail according to and .

System also includes ringback content repositories and or as well as user profiles repository . Ringback content repositories and or may include actual customized ringback content such as any media or multimedia type content e.g. any aural e.g. music sound utterance etc. visual e.g. image text video etc. and or vibratory e.g. pulse pattern etc. indicia. While it is contemplated that ringback content particularly includes content recorded from or otherwise supplied by subscribers embodiments of system are not so limited. For instance repositories and may include links or indicators e.g. URIs for acquiring the actual content corresponding to a customized ringback from other repositories or storage locations. In other instances ringback content stored in ringback repositories may include ringback content provided by third party suppliers or a service provider. These additional forms of ringback content may be modified by subscribers and or made to append to the ringback content provided by subscribers.

User profiles repository may include information corresponding to subscribers such as subscription information account numbers usernames passwords security questions monikers etc. subscriber demographics age gender ethnicity location of residence zip code school district community socioeconomic status religion marital status ownerships languages mobility life cycles etc. group organizational affiliations e.g. political memberships interests buddies friends cohorts system configurations policies e.g. predefined conditions for triggering the custom ringback services of system associated users devices etc. as well as any other suitable information.

Accordingly it is contemplated that the physical implementations of repositories may take many forms including for example portions of existing repositories of a service provider new repositories of a service provider third party repositories and or shared repositories. As such repositories can be configured to communicate over system through any suitable messaging protocol such as LDAP XML open database connectivity ODBC structured query language SQL and or the like as well as combinations thereof. In those instances when repositories are provided in distributed fashions information and content available at repositories may be located utilizing various querying mechanisms such as electronic number matching ENUM distributed universal number discovery DUNDi uniform resource identifiers URI and the like.

While system is illustrated in the components are exemplary in nature and indeed additional or alternative components and or implementations may be utilized.

In step ringback platform receives a communication session for the customizable ringback service from a user. That is a user at a voice enabled device e.g. voice station can establish a communication session with IVR module of ringback platform by placing a call to a destination address e.g. a toll free phone number of ringback platform via for example telephony network . According to other embodiments users may access ringback platform via messaging interface module by sending SMS and or MMS messages to the destination address of ringback platform . In still further embodiments ringback platform is made available to subscribers via online interface module . Namely the custom ringback services of ringback platform may be virtualized as one or more windows of a conventional browser application.

Once connected the user may be greeted with a WELCOME message as well as a menu of options for accessing the custom ringback services of ringback platform . If the user is a new user the user may select an option e.g. REGISTRATION option for subscribing to the custom ringback service. During registration IVR module may acquire information from the user e.g. some or all of the user profile information previously delineated as well as provide the user with sufficient authentication information for establishing future sessions with ringback platform .

After successful registration the user now subscriber may return to the menu of options to create and or manage one or more customized ringbacks. That is subscribers can select from a CREATE CUSTOMIZED RINGBACK option or a MANAGE CUSTOMIZED RINGBACK option for creating and or managing one or more customized ringbacks. Per step IVR module messaging interface module and or online interface module may authenticate the user before enabling the user to create and or manage one or more customized ringbacks. According to certain embodiments authentication or authorization is performed by authentication module via modules . Nevertheless modules may request a PIN or other credential information such as a voice print username password coded key etc. from subscribers which can be compared against information stored to a profile of the subscriber for permitting or denying access to the custom ringback services provided by ringback platform . Once authenticated the user will be permitted to create and or manage one or more customized ringbacks such as customized ringback via suitable interaction with one or more of modules .

Assuming the user selects the CREATE CUSTOMIZED RINGBACK option modules and or recording module may receive and record content corresponding to a customized ringback transmitted to ringback platform by the subscriber over the communication session via the voice enabled device. That is modules may prompt the user to record a customized ringback wherein the user will be permitted to create a customized ringback by speaking or providing content to be used as the customized ringback. According to various embodiments content may be provided as one or more MMS messages or as one or more electronic files uploaded to ringback platform via for example messaging interface module and online interface module respectively. In any case however modules and or recording module may receive and record content corresponding to a customized ringback from the subscriber over the communication session per step . At step one or more of modules and or recording module store the recorded and or provided content to a suitable location such as ringback content repositories and or . According to one embodiment customized ringbacks are stored to ringback content repositories and or according to a URI or any other suitable locator and or name.

Assuming the subscriber successfully created at least one customized ringback or assuming the user selects the MANAGE CUSTOMIZED RINGBACK option subscribers may be permitted to convey policy information for transmitting the customized ringback s to one or more parties attempting to establish a communication session with the subscriber as per step . That is one or more of modules may prompt the user for one or more of the described predefined conditions for making customized ringback s available to calling parties. In step one or more of modules store this policy information to a user profile of the subscriber residing on for example user profiles repository and or any other suitable location such as ringback content repositories and or . Accordingly this policy information may be used to selectively provide customized ringbacks to select individuals or groups of individuals. For example customized ringbacks may be created and provided to select friends family co workers telemarketers etc. Furthermore the customized ringbacks may be created and provided for particular events or occasions such as birthdays holidays farewells parties weddings invitations etc. Still further customized ringbacks may be created and managed for providing information e.g. advertisements news horoscopes sports scores etc. or warding off certain classes of callers e.g. SPAM callers telemarketers etc. .

After successfully facilitating the creation and or management of one or more customized ringbacks one or more of modules may port the policy information as well as the URI of the customized ringback to provisioning module so that provisioning module may generate a ringback trigger e.g. ringback trigger for detecting one or more of the predefined conditions and for deploying the customized ringback to calling parties upon the occurrence of one or more of the predefined conditions. Additionally or alternatively modules may request ringback content repositories and or user profiles repository to relay this information to provision module . Nevertheless provisioning module may generate a ringback trigger such as ringback trigger based on this information during step . As such provisioning module may then set the generated ringback trigger on one or more nodes e.g. nodes configured to establish communication sessions between calling and called parties at step .

Per step IVR module accepts the call and is connected with voice station . Once connected IVR module attempts to authenticate the subscriber by prompting the subscriber for credential information such as a PIN at step . When the subscriber replies such as by spoken utterance s or DTMF signal s voice station transmits the reply i.e. user credential information to IVR module per step . In step IVR module attempts to validate the subscriber by querying user profile repository based on the received credential information. User profile repository responds at step either confirming or rejecting the authenticity of the subscriber. If user profile repository confirms the authenticity of the subscriber then IVR module grants the subscriber access to the custom ringback services of ringback platform . If the user profile repository rejects the authenticity of the subscriber IVR module either re prompts the subscriber to input valid credential information and or terminates the call.

Assuming the subscriber is successfully authenticated IVR module prompts the subscriber to record a customized ringback at step . In a parallel or sequential manner IVR module invokes ringback repository for persisting a customized ringback recorded or to be recorded by IVR module per step . Per step ringback repository assigns a storage location and address e.g. URI for the recording or potential recording. Still in a parallel or sequential manner the subscriber responds to the recording prompt of IVR module such as by dictating a message intended to be used as a customized ringback to IVR module . At step voice station transmits the dictation to IVR module for recording however it is to be appreciated that IVR module may port the dictation to recording module for recording purposes. Once recorded IVR module stores as in step the customized ringback to ringback repository at the established location using the established URI.

Assuming successful customized ringback recordation IVR module prompts the subscriber for policy information for deploying the customized ringback in according with the desires of the subscriber per step . In a parallel or sequential manner IVR module invokes user profiles repository for persisting the policy information supplied to or to be supplied to IVR module at step . The subscriber responds to the prompts of IVR module such as by dictating an originating device address receiving device address scheduling data and or any other suitable predefined condition to IVR module such as those predefined conditions previously delineated. During step voice station transmits the dictation to IVR module . In step IVR module stores the policy information to a user profile of the subscriber. When finished the subscriber may hang up with IVR module per step . In step voice station and IVR module are disconnected. Per step the call is terminated.

Assuming successful customized ringback creation and or policy information acquisitioning IVR module can invoke provisioning module to set a ringback trigger on one or more nodes of system such as node per step . In step IVR module transmits any necessary information to provisioning module for ringback trigger generation. This information may include the policy information of the user as well as the address of the customized ringback created by the subscriber and subsequently stored to ringback repository . It is contemplated however that IVR module may request ringback repository and or user profiles repository to supply provisioning module with the necessary information. Accordingly provisioning module generates a ringback trigger based on the supplied information per step . At step provisioning module sets the ringback trigger on one or more nodes of system such as node . During step nodes set with the ringback trigger such as node wait in standby for a triggering event s that causes the customized ringback to be provisioned according to the desires of the subscriber.

In step a network node e.g. node receives a connection signal from a calling party through a voice enabled device e.g. mobile voice station to establish a communication session with a called party e.g. the subscriber of the custom ringback services of system through a receiving device e.g. computing device . Per step the network node traps or otherwise processes the connection signal via for example ringback trigger . That is the network node may determine via ringback trigger if a customized ringback e.g. customized ringback is to be relayed to the calling party as well as which customized ringback is to be retrieved from one or more ringback content repositories e.g. ringback repositories and or during step . Namely ringback trigger may utilize one or more application specific processes for detecting one or more predefined conditions for deploying a customized ringback according to the desires of the called party and based on the connection signal and or information stored to a profile of the subscriber determine which customized ringback is to be retrieved.

If a customized ringback is to be transmitted to the calling party ringback trigger retrieves the appropriate customized ringback from one or more of ringback content repositories and or as in step . According to one embodiment ringback trigger retrieves the appropriate customized ringback via a URI or other suitable locator and or name of the customized ringback. During this period the network node or another network node e.g. node can attempt to setup the communication session with the subscriber through the receiving device e.g. computing device of the subscriber. In this manner the communication session may be routed to any suitable network node that serves the receiving device of the subscriber. As such the suitable network node can be configured to alert the receiving device of the incoming communication session. Before the communication session is established i.e. accepted by the subscriber the network node is configured to transmit the customized ringback to the calling party through the originating device of the calling party. In particular embodiments the customized ringback may be transmitted to the calling party as an analog voice signal or as one or more session initiation protocol real time transfer protocol packets as well as any other suitable transmission or combinations thereof. Accordingly once the called party i.e. the subscriber accepts the communication session the customized ringback transmission is terminated by the network node per step .

At step a calling party initiates the call to a called party i.e. a subscriber of the custom ringback service by dialing a designated telephony address e.g. telephony number of the called party via originating device . Dialing the address causes originating device to initiate call setup signaling and or messaging with originating node that includes ringback trigger set thereon. This call setup signaling and or messaging embodies a connection signal including for example an originating address of originating device and or a receiving address of receiving device . In particular embodiments the connection signal may also include date and or time information corresponding to the date and or time when the attempted communication session was initiated.

At step originating node detects a triggering event based on the connection signal at step . In this manner the appearance of the call for the subscriber at originating node causes ringback trigger to be encountered and a corresponding query or other like message to be transmitted to ringback repository per step . That is ringback trigger requests an appropriate customized ringback from ringback repository based on information corresponding to the originating address of the originating device the receiving address of the receiving party and or one or more predefined conditions of a policy of the subscriber such as particular date and time criteria. According to one embodiment the request simply provides an address e.g. a URI of the appropriate customized ringback. In other embodiments ringback trigger requests ringback repository to return the appropriate customized ringback based on the information corresponding to the originating address of the originating device the receiving address of the receiving party and or one or more predefined conditions of a policy of the subscriber. As such ringback repository can determine the appropriate customized ringback to transmit to originating node based on the query step . Thus ringback repository transmits the appropriate customized ringback to originating node per step .

In a parallel or sequential fashion originating node transmits per step an initial address message IAM or other like message to receiving node for routing purposes i.e. for establishing the communication session between originating device and receiving device . That is the IAM initiates seizure of receiving node and transmits for example the telephony address of receiving device to receiving node so that receiving node can properly handle the call and route the call to receiving device . In response receiving node transmits an address complete message ACM to originating node per step to indicate that the IAM and subsequently sufficient addressing information for routing the call to receiving device was received.

At this point originating node may transmit the appropriate customized ringback to originating device per step . Further receiving node may transmit an alert to receiving device to indicate the existence of an incoming call per step . Once however the subscriber i.e. the called party answers the incoming call i.e. at step receiving device transmits an alert to receiving node to indicate that the call was answered. In response receiving node transmits an answered call message ANM to originating node to indicate to originating node that the call was answered. Thus in step originating node terminates the transmission of the customized ringback to originating device . As such receiving device is connected to originating device at step . Per step a voice communication session ensues between the calling party and the subscriber i.e. the called party.

The processes described herein for providing custom ringback services may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

